ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Now, I'm asking you to be a vagrant of your respect for the escons to begin this plenary session. [[Well, good morning, deputies, deputies. I'm begging you to shut up. The session begins.]] [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] [[In the first place, and before starting the order of the day, unfortunately, I tell you that we must regret the confirmation of two more murders for male violence in Catalonia. According to the Interior Department, one case has been reported to Viladecans and another to Llobregat Hospital. With these two cases, there are already six victims of this year 2019.]] [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and migration policies]] [[I would also like to inform you that, as a compliment to what Moció 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia has set up, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and policies to gather migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, 909 people have died in the Mediterranean since the birth of the month.]] [[Discussion on the general political orientation of the Government]] [[255-00008/12]] We are now following the only item on the agenda of this plenary session, which is the debate on the general political orientation of the Government. This debate will be governed by Articles 154 and 155 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the sequence adopted for the Board of Spokespersons. In the first place, has the word Molt Honorable Mr Quim Torra, president of the Generalitat de Catalunya. When you're ready, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.2.0	Very good day to all the rooms. Benvolgut President; benvolgut Members and Members, Catalan politics is moving at a speed of vertigo. And what you've been writing, just forty-four hours before, maybe it's not valid for a few hours. I wanted to start this general policy speech by telling you that there seemed to be some people who didn't want me to be here today giving explanations to the representatives of the people of Catalonia and exposing my Government's projects and proposals. But I'm there. And my compromise, as it can't be otherwise, is to always compare to Parliament when it requires it. It's about the legislative power, the most important thing for me in the balance of power, because it's the one that has the clearest and most direct mission of making good the will of the citizens. And this, as Josep Carner said, is the first republican institution. The executive and the judiciary must always be at the height of what they demand and mark the legislature, which is the assembly of representatives of the Catalans. I have said it many times and I repeat it again, in case anyone had any doubts: I say, exclusively, to the Parliament of Catalonia and to the people who, in the elections or in the referendums, tell them the way we must follow. Respecting popular will should be, and it is, for me, the second republican institution. As President of Catalonia, the compliment of the mandate of the popular will is the main duty that I demand of myself. These last few years we have witnessed the political death of Montesquieu in the Spanish State: the separation of powers from the kingdom of Spain is a mirage that only someone who is very confident or very ill-intentioned can defend that exists. To the band that the monarch has long lost his moral constitutional neutrality, if it is that he had never dyed it, and that the Constitutional Court has already acted against the democratic word of a state approved in reference for the Catalan people. I would have wanted to start this speech denouncing that the Spanish democracy is making water. That the irregular use of constitutional articles, of an outdated constitution written in the dark and the sound of sabers, has succeeded in suspending democratic institutions and legitimate governments. That political repression is a normalized and animated practice for a part of political representation. That now there is not much of a Spanish side that does not approve the application of Article 155 to punish democracy in Catalonia. It seems that, in view of the fact that the Constitution is the basis of popular will, it is based on what the President of the Judiciary put forward, when he stated with precision that: "The unit of the Spanish nation is the basis of the state of law and a direct mandate for the courts. I want to tell you that it is clear, what can we expect from this vision so old and so little democratic of politics and the function of judgments? How can we expect a fit with this proposal for a country that is not a death card for Catalonia? Who can defend that there will be fair and fair judgments to political dissent? He wanted to insist that the democratic quality of a state is measured by its ability to accept dissent. And that a few days from now we'll have a very clear answer. We'll see if the Spanish State passes the test. And we'll see how democracy is capable of assuming the Spanish State. I say we'll know from here a few days, because – against everything that would be required in a democratic state – rulers and prosecutors have already advanced when the Supreme Court's judgment will be produced in court against our companies. And I say 'ours...'? No, your companies; the escho, passadí, box and coffee table companies, everyone's companies, everyone's companies. And not only that, but on various occasions the presumption of innocence has been violated by Spanish institutions and the accused have been sentenced in official documents and memos. For example, practically all of Global Spain's activity is aimed at fighting independence and, by the way, blaming our companies. But above all I was interested in asking you a question: what does it do you for? Why are you afraid of democracy? Why don't you defend what you want with the word and the reason instead of the force and the threat? I wanted to ask you to leave the Criminal Code out of this house of the word and the dialect, to be brave, to defend your arguments and to allow citizens to express themselves clearly in a direct question about Catalonia's independence. What's he doing to you, repeat? That you didn't have a majority? If all of your interventions say independence isn't a majority. Then what's the problem? Why don't we shut up for a few years with a signed, binding and recognizable reference, like democratic countries do? What's going on behind your por? Yes, the citizenry decides. We have come to hear from Members of this Parliament that citizens cannot decide according to what questions. But it's that, then, who has to decide them, if not? All this is what I wanted to tell you to start the debate, but there were some serious events going on in Catalonia, and we need to start the debate here, right here, at this point. Yesterday, he sent a letter to the President in office of the Spanish Government explaining to him the following: "We woke up in Catalonia this morning with the blow of doors of the civil guard at the home of citizens compromised with their society. We also woke up with a civil guard statement informing us of arrests that are made with a preventive character and with the aim of seeking incriminating evidence. The delegate of her Government to Catalonia, Mrs Teresa Cunillera, informed of some – comets – preventive detentions that should not be possible in a true state of law. Up to nine people were detained and accused of terrorism – two of them already in freedom, accused of belonging to a terrorist gang – in a police, media, judicial operation that blew up all the principles of the presumption of innocence against the European Directive 2016/343 and served to invent a false rapport of rape in Catalonia, as we see with concern that the report of the United Nations Arbitrary Detention Working Group is not being applied. This was written yesterday to the president of the government in office. Well, the answer, the answer to this Parliament, should be that we in Catalonia want to base the entire performance of public administrations on the scrupulous respect of human, civil and individual political rights and collectivities. This has been and will always be our answer: democratic radicalism, human rights, social and political rights, and republicanism. We'll never get out of here. I have defended it enough in this chamber and I repeat: the independence movement has been, it will be a peaceful and non-violent movement that seeks to achieve the independence of our country always by democratic means, always. [[Greetings.]] And I find it intolerable that again, another time, it is intended to criminalize the independence movement, accusing it no longer just of being a rebel movement but of being a terrorist. When the debate is lost, slander is the loser's weapon. It is attributed to Socrates. I go over the insults I've received from some Members of this Parliament, because so low and grollers I don't want to put up with a_second; but I will never, ever, allow it to associate a radically democratic movement with terrorism. I'll never allow it. [[Perlongats applause.]] We're sick of threats and getting into the Catalan houses in the morning. And if what they pretend is to frighten us, the context with a few verses from the Russian poet Ossip Mandelxtam: "Because the slave is free they have won the por, and in much quantity we have kept, in fresh grain and in diposites, the money of full and holy faith. But luckily we are thousands, we are millions who follow and we will continue to defend the city's empowerment and the defense of the rights and freedoms of everyone. And tanmateix, what's the big deal with this silence in the Spanish state of his political parties. Where is the Spanish friend of the rights and freedoms of Catalans now, when we need it more? We are at the debate of the state of the birth; yes, the one born that so well Rubert de Ventos described in the preamble of the Statue, voted for 90_% of the chamber. In this speech, written by Mr Rubert de Ventós, including the PSC and the students Initiative for Catalonia and which Mr Guerra's ribot went through first, and then the Constitutional Court was in charge of burying. But it is obvious, of course, that the difficult institutional crisis in Spain will also overwhelm this debate, and it is likely that some of you have talked about it, about instability, about governance, and I don't know how much more than certain media insist on seeing Catalonia. And you know what? That when someone tells me about institutional instability in Catalonia, they'll give me a big smile. Catalonia has a government formed by different parties since 2012; between 2003 and 2010 there was also, and in the first governments of what is called ‘transition' – when it would be nice to name it much more precisely‘transaction' – there was also experience of pact and agreement between the parties for governance. What's going on in Spain? What happens to them, at the Congress of Deputies, that they can never agree if it's not to defend the unit of Spain? Why wasn't there a coalition government in the state of franchising? I ask myself: Who is it that has real difficulties with the culture of the pact and the accord? Who is it that has the allergy to hear 'as well as that which is different? Why is there a president of the government in Spain who says he couldn't sleep if there were ministers from other parties that weren't his? In Catalonia we would not have slept for many years, the leaders of the governments. I'd say it's not exactly a song to tolerance and acceptance of difference, which happens in Madrid. And, of course, we must not be surprised at how Spanish politics reacts when we in Catalonia want to decide our future in a peaceful and democratic way. I would like to begin by saying that we are experiencing a difficult problem in the basic principles of separation of powers and the neutrality of the judiciary, a guarantee of transparency and good democratic functioning. [[Pause.]] Excuse me. We have said this on other occasions: the rush is the enemy of rigor, and it seems that some judges are in a hurry to undo the word of the citizenry when this does not please them. They prevent the investiture of legitimate presidents, suspend completely legitimate and legal deputies, choose by the people, undertake governments or send them to exile. It is clear that the defenders of the Spanish unit impose on the courts what they do not democraticly achieve at the polls. Allow me a personal reference. So here I am, my trial is adjourned, and yet it seems that I already have another one in the world, but go. What's the matter with you? It will not be until a week after the Spanish elections that will be repeated for the instability of Mr Sánchez and the failure of the socialist government in Spain. It's already a coincidence, hi, that I let it be adjourned almost two months after taking a race, as has been seen a few times, at the High Court of Justice, full of irregularities and procedural errors, in order to be able to disable me as soon as possible. Now it doesn't matter that my judgment is produced just before the elections? What's going on, all folded up, and what's sad? It is this very desire to bury the majority popular will in Catalonia that makes no interlocutors in the table of the dialog. Ever since we helped bring down Mariano Rajoy's government, the most corrupt government in Europe, we've been sitting at the table of the dialog waiting for answers and making proposals. The first months of Pedro Sánchez's mandate seemed to be a timid gesture, but we soon proved that everything was tactical and culpable, that there was no real compromise for the dialog. The truth is that President Sánchez recognized at the first meeting that we had in Moncloa that there was a political conflict that could only be solved in real political ways. That's why we tried to talk, and to Pedralbes we got to talk about legal certainty, without mentioning the Constitution. That's why we set up a committee to explore the dialog. Our proposal to resolve the issue with a compromise, binding and internationally recognizable reference on independence never had a counter-proposal. His share of the full-dialogue, the share of the full-dialogue to be filled by the Spanish government, was always left blank. I don't think so. I haven't heard anything yet. And that's the biggest problem President Sanchez has on the table. No concrete proposal in a year and a half. We fully understand the strategy. They tell us they can't decide alone, but they don't show up for negotiation either. But they're wrong. They think that Catalonia's citizenship is like a bunch of eels, as Councillor Turull ironically reminded the members of the Supreme Court, and if anything has shown us these years, it is that the civic empowerment of Catalans is absolute and they are not willing to go on a long journey. You know? The democratic will is like water, which always ends up finding the way to the sea. For many obstacles, this people will end up finding a way to make their will come true, and this is my compromise as president. I told you to start. In fact, I say that it is my obligation, as it should be the obligation of all democrats, to make it possible that it is complacent to what the citizenry demands. And that's what I'm gonna do, you don't have any doubts. The lack of interlocutors to the Spanish government for the democratic dialogue is further damaged by this government that leads us to elections every two by three. The Spanish elections have been the result of the weakness of instability and the failed politics of these last years. I have only seen two presidents of the Government of Spain pass through the way of the third Spanish legislature and a motion of censure has been voted on. Ladies and gentlemen, God-in-law. I don't know if when we wrote in our old days the political memories that we've experienced these years, someone will ever believe that all this was happening in Spain in less than a year and a half. This instability that ends up with an institutional disloyalty, a disloyalty not with the Government of Catalonia, a disloyalty with the citizens of Catalonia, leads us to a situation of constant economic sect, of absence of resources for the basic services, lack of strategic investments for the economic and business activities, lack of services that had to be financed equally. We are the object of a political offensive, which I think has been very clear since October 27th, but also of an economic offensive disguised and people concealed. And also, it is thanks also to the resilience, the super-effort, the vitality and the entrepreneurship of the country that we manage to overcome this situation. Look, we just lived a little while ago with the beasts. It was an authentic example of the principle of deception. Ministers who claimed to have reports they didn't have, chants because they didn't, listen, until there was government we couldn't afford to pay. And look, you see where, it turns out that now, suddenly, a few days ago, there's a bitch, oh! , miracle, in precisely starting the electoral campaign. The question that does not let me sleep with the nits is: What potential would this country not have if it is dazzled by these obstacles to its progress? What would we not be able to do and how could we be the public servants of Catalonia without this beige motxilla that you want to bring to us the defenders of eternal Spain? I finished this first block of my intervention with some reflections written by Mr. Ramin Jahanbegloo, director of the Mahatma Gandhi Center for Pau, published a few months ago in a newspaper in Catalonia. I think these are relevant reflections. Says the director of the Mahatma Gandhi Centre: "The first constitutive characteristic of Catalan independence is to prioritise what Catalans decide for themselves over what they simply want from outside Catalonia. And he continued: "As such, the struggle for independence in Catalonia is, to be sure, a struggle for the freedom of conscience and moral dignity of Catalans to be accepted as the source of their own laws. If this is the case, therefore, Catalans are not mere servants of the Spanish Government or subjects of the monarchy, but the exemplary incarnation of an autonomous republic. "Of course," he continues, "the experience of Catalonia cannot be reduced to a simple demand for autonomy. It is also a form of civic humanism that is not intended to serve the Spanish Constitution, but to assume the responsibility for the well-being of Catalans. The concept of responsibility is important, because it demonstrates to what extent the struggle for Catalonia's independence has allowed Catalans to enter into the mature politics. The Ramin Jahanbegloo ended up highlighting three ideas about the experience of independence in Catalonia. First idea: constructive tolerance. Second idea: a critical political spirit. Third idea: the coexistence between the me and the other. I think these words, these great ideas and reflections give the exact point where we find ourselves, the exact point where we find the authentic state of the birth on this September 25, 2019. And I'm going to develop the second block of this speech focused on government action. Despite the interbanks that are supposed to manage an enormously complicated political context as we live, this government governs and focuses its action on the priority objective of ensuring the best public services for the country's citizens. It is not incompatible, years on the contrary, and we are demonstrating it, to base political action on the independence of Catalonia and to manage with rigour and with passing the skills that we have with the current legal framework. Of course, it is legal that it is not what the citizens of Catalonia voted for, but what a court ordered it to do. I could stop to detail the main lines of action of the girls during the last few months, but for this reason, I refer to the diary of sessions that reverses the intervention that I did last July 24th, with the motion of the plenary called to speak of the real Catalonia – parentheses: as if there was no other one – and on which I recalled that I enumerated, in detail, more than 250 actions that defined the balance of the first year of government of this dozenate legislature. I believe that, frankly, repeating it would be excessive – this is likely to be a point on which we all agree. Now, if you want it, I have no problem repeating the July speech. [[Widow's remorse.]] I don't think so. For this reason, today I will focus on highlighting some of the main lines of work that occupy us and occupy us during our own months. And I will also do so by following the outline of the areas of work in which we have structured the government plan of the legislature. First block: country reactivated. It is to say, recovery of institutions after the application of Article 155 and economic dynamism after the crisis. A little more than a year ago, almost a year and a half ago, we recovered our institutions after the paralysis represented by Article 155. It was a complex, enormously complex start to the legislature. The impact of the application of Article 155 in government action and in the country's institutions was very important, as was evident in the report prepared by the Commission of the Presidency for the Deployment of Self-Government. He worked hard to get to know and analyze all the effects with the intention of returning and recovering all the lost activity and reducing the impact that those effects had on the citizenry. Also a significant part of the Catalan institutions with statutory recognition considered to be instrumental in the deployment of Catalonia's self-government have implications for their governing bodies, with members awaiting renewal, extended or vacant. In order to be able to legitimize our institutions, as they all act in full, and therefore we will work to achieve the full institutional deployment of the country. I would like to point out that, before the wave of impunity that we are living and from the compromise with the rights of all the citizens of Catalonia, it was created the Office for Civil and Political Rights, which at the length of these months has processed more than sixty complaints and presented the Manifesto against violations of the rights of October 1, 2017. In addition, he has published an interactive map of the crackdown on Catalonia since the referendum process began. So, I want to publicly aggravate the entire task of undertaking before the courts, at the expense of the citizens who were attacked on October 1st and claiming all the damages caused to the citizenry and the generality for all the violations of the rights and freedoms caused by the Spanish State these last years. The year 2018 the Catalan economy grew a 2.8_per_cent, seven tenths per euro area envelope, in which it is already the five year of uninterrupted growth. In the first and second quarter of 2019, which we have already closed, growth has been 2_per_cent a year ago, slightly higher than the growth of the second quarter of 2018. The Catalan economy, therefore, seems to be stabilized around this xifra, 2_per_cent, and is expected to continue this xifra with which we tank this year 2019 and also 2020, according to the studies of the Chamber of Commerce of Barcelona. We enter a more mature phase of the economic cycle, when the growth of the Catalan economy converged to its potential or long term value. I would also like to say that beyond the growth of GDP, it should be noted that 2018 per capita GDP, in real terms of Catalonia, has regained the level expected of the crisis. Despite the affluence of world trade in 2018 and all these symptoms that come from the global economy, the Catalan economy continues to increase its degree of integration. The lack of dynamism of our main trading partners, such as Germany, has conditioned the evolution of Catalan exports to the alienation of the past year, which certainly moderated its growth to 1.1_per_cent. However, if we expand the time frame, the fact that exports in real terms have increased by 72.8_per_cent between 2009 and 2018 is remarkable. But an important fact: in the first half of 2019, foreign trade indicators recover momentum and exports grow by 2_per_cent compared to the previous year. The main export branches have positive growth, with the exception of the automotive sector. Notwithstanding this – and it is not a triumphalist speech, but indeed with contrasts, which we must always put on the table – we must be loving these figures in the proper months, since there are signs that the trade tensions between the United States and China are beginning to have a significant impact on the world economy, as it is also contributing to increasing uncertainty, at the global level as well, the outcome of Brexit. As for foreign investment, if we look at five-year periods, which are as recommended by experts, we see how it has increased over the years: the gross foreign productive investment in the 2014-2018 period grew by 45_per_cent compared to the previous five-year average. In any case, if we observe the first half of 2019, the foreign investment to Catalonia has increased by 16_per_cent per year, according to official data of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism, while in the conjunction of the State it has fallen by 63,1_per_cent; 16_per_cent of growth to Catalonia, drop of 63_per_cent to Spain. For what it does to the labor market, which is another xifra relevant, because it affects the citizenry, we carry six years resulting in an annual reduction of the twilight rate and a little more than five and a half years of growth of the occupied population. The 2018 rate was '11.5_per_cent, almost two points less than 2017, almost twelve points less than the year 2013. To this end the Catalan society has brought back a situation that seemed truly amazing in 2013, reaching these figures of 23, 23 and a half percent. Last year, I repeat, 11.5_per_cent. But it's that the second quarter of 2019, it's located at 11,2_per_cent. The lowest rate of maturity in a _second quarter of the year 2008 and almost three points less than the Spanish midjana, which is in 14_per_cent. These are the real figures. That's not a triumphalist speech, it's just putting figures over the table. That's giving confidence to the business world. And I trust that in the debate that we will have with the rest of the groups in the chamber is to recognize the current economic situation in Catalonia, that it is a situation from a country to a point, from a country on the march, from a country that is progressing. We are continuing to consolidate the number of entrepreneurs in Catalonia, which has recovered after the strong choke resulting from the crisis. Finally, last year we passed, both because of what he does to businesses in Catalonia as well as his social media, the 2010 figures. In the first half of 2019, 10,243 commercial companies were created, i.e., 3,3_per_cent more than in the same period of 2018, a fact that again contrasts with state data, in which the creations of entrepreneurs have decreased by 1,8_per_cent. I insist, despite these good figures, that there are still many areas of improvement, especially for what it does to some indicators of welfare and social progress, and which indicate that economic growth is not fully transferred to the Catalan lars, which continue to show weakness. Even though income inequality decreased in 2018, other indicators such as severe material deprivation or poor labour rates have worsened. In this sense, the assumptions for the year 2020 have the challenge of trying to pale and reverse this situation while driving an inclusive society where everyone can have the opportunity to make progress according to their aspirations and longings and where they are sustainable in a broad sense and shared value. Step to the next chapter between this bloc: country of equality and equity. That is to say, to move forward on the point that no one is left behind in the ability to pull forward his life project in Catalonia, vis-à-vis where he lives. Social and Family Affairs. Taking over people and ensuring their integration, this is one of the basic pillars of this government. For this reason, we want a model that reduces institutionalization time, that seeks to dechronize situations of vulnerability, that reinforces preventive aspects and primary services and that guarantees freedom so that each person can carry out his or her vital project with justice and social equality. For this reason, we are working on a new strategic plan of social services 2020-2024 the four strategic priorities of which are: ensuring coverage of basic needs, emotional support and follow-up to the life cycle, prevention and support for families with special needs, as well as the uses of time and reconciliation. We will continue with the work that must culminate with the national pact for the rights of persons with disabilities. Once we've gained strength in this pact, we've already created the institutional table and the working groups with the objective of being able to present their findings in their own months. We are working on a new decree of the Accessibility Code, which has already passed the public consultation process, and which must ensure the accessibility of disabled people to the society's key sectors, such as urbanization, building, transport, communication, culture, communication media, education. Actually, a code that is important and that takes, as you know, as a model the codes that have been promulgated for the United Nations. We will continue to work to approve the social concert law during the next few months. We are deploying the Comprehensive Plan to meet the gathering of young migrants alone, to improve attention and ensure their social inclusion. This government has made a very great, huge effort, and we have made it convinced that it is necessary to do so, that a country that is open to everyone and that is in the hands of those who are persecuted for wars and injustices must always guarantee it. We will implement a new calculation tool for public investment in childhood and adolescence, inspired by a methodological proposal developed for Unicef, with the will to know what is the government's expenditure and investment. We will continue to work for the approval of the National Pact for Interculturality, which must gather the many initiatives that our society, its entities, its institutions are able to propose and realize for such a favor that Catalans of different origins find us always and at all times proposed to recognize the contributions of each and every one, and a system of action to reduce inequalities and be a country more inclusive than we are today. Scope of Greeting. We will continue to lay the foundations to ensure the sustainability of our health system in the last 20 years, maintaining its characteristic features, that is, universal, public and quality. We will deploy, through a new decree, the law of universalization of healthcare. During the next course, we will continue to strengthen primary care with the Best Primary Care Equipment Plan, with an investment of 30_million euros in three years to improve CAPs. To highlight the tape of the 4th of November, in which the Forum of Diàleg Professional will make public its conclusions, which will allow working on firm bases to offer operational solutions in planning and professional policy. We're working on the new waiting list law. Catalonia has improved in the later years: while in the year 2015 an 80_per_cent of patients intervene in the stipulated time, the year 2018 already completes it in a 94_per_cent. In addition, in Catalonia we are capdavanters in the guarantees in time of access; we guarantee more than the State. For example, we guarantee access time for oncological surgeries of twenty-two days, which are not in Spain. Or we guarantee access to heart interventions on a daily basis, when Spain is one hundred and forty days. In equipment, we have begun the work of the new hospital in Viladecans, which will entail an investment of 61_million euros and has approved the first phase of the Joan XXIII Hospital, which also implies an investment of almost 50_million euros. The new smart ICU of the Valley of Hebron, an investment of 20_million euros, which will serve 2,200 patients in the year and which is the largest in the State, has also been inaugurated. And Bellvitge's new surgical unit, with a 50-million-euro reversal, which I had the opportunity to visit on September 13th and which are actually magnetic installations and which locate the Bellvitge Hospital as one of the not only captivating hospitals of the State but of Europe. We are working on the new law of addictions to reduce tobacco consumption and we would be fond of state regulation to develop a Catalan law of euthanasia and assisted suicide. For what it refers to habitating, another of the Government's priority lines – yes, habitating policies. We have worked very hard, and we will continue to do so, to ensure access to a decent habitat for everyone, as well as to meet the need to maintain the habitat and to avoid the risk of social exclusion. We have approved two decrees to reverse this situation and now we will seek a greater consensus to improve them – let's stay on our hands –: one, urgent measures to improve access to housing, with a threefold objective: to cope with the lack of public protection habitat; to have more instruments to combat emergency situations, denunciations; and, thirdly, to promote a moderation in the prices of free housing. The other decree, to make it possible to contain the prices of the logger in the barrel or cities with an accredited lack of suitable habitats. We will also process the preliminary draft urban lease law, which will incorporate the mechanism for limiting the previously mentioned price and which will extend the regulation to the rest of aspects related to the housing logger. We are at the final part of the processing of the sectoral spatial plan of the habitat, as a full route of the housing policy for the proper years, and which is fixed as the main objective to ensure that all the nine years that will form in the fifteen years following its approval – most of which will be for young people – can access a decent and adequate habitat in terms of price, location, tenure, surface and conservation status, as well as increasing social logger in Catalonia up to 5_percent of the main habitats. We will continue to expand the public social housing park of the Generalitat by means of the exercise of retraction and tanteig. It has reached 2,886 built-in habitats in the park through this route since the end of 2015, making it possible to exceed the 20,000 habitats managed by the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia throughout the territory. In three years and a half we have increased in three thousand habitats the public park managed for the Generality. The Incasòl, finally, plans to build 638 suitable logger habitats by 2020 and also generate residential soil to accommodate more than 2,100 potential habitats. It's like ladies-homes. We've talked about social matters, health, housing... but if they let me mention a job that the government has addressed across the board, I'd say there's been equality between men and women and the struggle against male violence. This is why we will apply the Strategic Platform for Gender Equality Policies 2019-2022, with more than 326 actions to be deployed in the next few years and around €73_million for the year 2019. We will deploy the STEMcat platform, approved just a week ago at the Executive Board, which will attract more women to scientific, technological, engineering and mathematical vocations. We will strengthen the gender perspective in many areas: health, rural and maritime environment, prison system. [[Pause.]] In the health mark, and between this equality of women-men, in the mark of the new law of waiting lists we guarantee a maximum of one hundred_nights for mother reconstruction after a cancer. The will to fight against the scourge of male violence on the part of the Government is determined and absolute, and at this point it is essential to fill in the need to reach a political compromise to bring to completion the National Pact for male violence, in which we are working, as you know. After putting the Protocol on Security against Sexual Violence in the middle of the night into effect, we will now work on its deployment and its application by public and private entities that affect these activities of the night. We will also deploy the second Comprehensive Intervention Programme against Male Violence 2019-2022, which sets out the Government's commitment to prioritizing attention to victims. Culture, and culture as a tool of cohesion. We understand culture as a universal and fundamental right, and as a key pillar of the welfare state, as are salvation or education. And we put the emphasis on its transformative capacity, because it improves social cohesion, and it expresses itself from a transversal and next perspective. That is why we have formed, with the four deputies, the Cultural Community of Catalonia, because we believe in the motto of managing together to manage better. And to set country strategies in cultural spheres. We will take forward the strategic plan of the MNAC and its expansion; the proposed fusion of the Museum of History and Archaeology planned in the 2030 Museums Plan, and the promotion of museums as knowledge tools. We will set aside a new line of impulses and help social inclusion projects through culture; in addition, we will continue to support very solid initiatives, such as the 'Approximate Culture' programme. We will consolidate and extend the whole network of new oral Catalan courses for non-literate people Ep! Listen and talk; we will typically keep the digital library of the Generalitat, the unique notebook and the unified catalog of libraries, strategic tools that work in the line of optimizing resources and sharing information and knowledge. We have also recovered, from the best in management, the imports of the audiovisual tax, lost from the judgment of the Constitutional Court, to continue increasing our bet for this key sector in the cultural consumption of the moment we live. We are aware, and I would say that painfully aware, that it is necessary to make a much greater presuppostary effort to go lying down the inversion per inhabitant in culture to the standards of the most advanced countries. We need to hear this: culture is the soul of the country, it is one of the best integration tools we have, and a great action to create quality work and to project us abroad. That is why the progress that will be one of our priorities in this project of presupposition – culture. And in this line I can already announce, it is known, that this September the Government has presented the first Feder fund call dedicated exclusively to culture, which puts 27_million euros at the disposal of the equipment, which will allow to reinvest in equipment with many needs of museums, theatres or first line heritage buildings. With culture I finish the previous block and start the next country prepared for future challenges, it is to say, to situate our country as a region of knowledge, formation, innovation and leadership, in the technological change for the better of living conditions. And I have to start with educational policies. Together with the Councillor of Education, on the first day of the course we visited, together, the school Tower of Miranda, Cornellà. And I witnessed that the beginning of the new school year was developing with total normality. And also, not just for Cornell's school: for the Catalan general, for more than a million students and more than 72,500 teachers. This new course we have increased in 670 places the teaching staff as well as having 3,000 students and extended assumptions. But we need to do it, because in education, too, let's play the future of the country. Our priority is to build an inclusive education model based on equity, quality and innovation. This is the Legislature of the Anti-Segregation Pact, a consensus needed to achieve an educational system that combats school segregation. We will incorporate 209 professionals, during this course, dedicated to inclusive school to help better serve the student. In this same line, we are working to hold two decrees, in view of the beginning of the 2020-2021 course: the decree of admission of students and the decree of educational concerts. We will summon 3,155 teaching staff, so as to stabilize seedlings, reduce their internity and arrive, five years from now, at an 8-10_per_cent of internations. This course, for the first time, is open to all secondary schools which are obliged to provide Community services. Up to now, only 65 per cent of the centres had been implemented. We will push for debate to face the country's main educational challenges, because this country likes to debate its education. Three of them, during this same course: timetables and school calendars, reform of post-compulsory education and teacher training and career paths, since we consider that, of the gods, these are, perhaps, the three most urgent and priority debates. For what you do in post-compulsory studies, this course is a more flexible three-year course, combining it with a medium-grade format cycle. For what it does to vocational training, the government and the different actors involved have laid the foundations for being able to respond to its main challenges, which are reflected in the basic document of the Catalan Strategy for Training and Vocational Qualification of Catalonia 2020-2030, approved last July. From these actions I want to highlight the following: first, the deployment of the new dual vocational training model, which is expected to arrive at this course at about 21_percent of the second vocational training course student – this represents a new_1,000 students; second, the impulse of comprehensive vocational training centres as innovation and development centres related to training needs; third, the inn in the wake of the public vocational training and qualification agency of Catalonia, which will be responsible for driving the transformation of our country's vocational training and qualification system. Work. And this is where we can do the best social policy, work. That's why the government wants to focus on its policies to get the Catalan labor market to generate occupation, and quality occupation for everyone. The tape is no longer reducing the time..., 2013, 23: long percentage of time; we will end with 11 and a little, this year, and that will continue to decrease. But now we must also focus on generating quality occupation. We carry twenty-and-four consecutive trimesters reducing each year the twilight, and twenty-and-three consecutive trimesters of the interannual growth of the occupied population. Now we have to get a job market that offers an occupation that allows people – to all people – to lead a dignified life. And this government has to do without having the legislative capacity to repeal the labor reforms it would want, or to make the laws it would want, and to adapt to the needs of the Catalan labour market. But with the tools we have... we'll use them as much as possible. We will present the results of the calculation of the minimum wage of Catalan reference, to start all the conversations in order to reach a strategic agreement with social and economic agents to establish this minimum wage of appropriate reference to the productivity and cost of living of Catalonia. We will continue to deploy the Guaranteed Income of Ciutadania. Two years after its inn in March, the Guaranteed Income of Ciutadania already has more than 124,000 beneficiaries, a 16_per_cent more than September 2017 and more than twice as much as the old Minimum Income of Insertion. Now we begin the third phase of deployment, which will culminate on April 1, 2020, when the final equipping of the access shield and the import of the service to the cent_per_cent of the IRSC is given, which will make it possible to reach more people. We will adapt active occupation policies to the real needs of each territory, in accordance with the decree of territorial concertation deployment, SOC occupation policies, recently approved. We have given a new impetus to Martorell's professional automotive training, which will be an integral centre with the aim of consolidating the competitiveness of the automotive sector towards other regions, with the expectation of bringing together 1,500 students from the year 2020 onwards. A theme that had been stuck more than five years ago and that we have already managed to put in the way, and the figures show the importance of doing so. In the fight against youth tourism, we will continue to display the figure of the youth employment referendum and we have approved a line of €6_million to promote youth self-employment for the years 2019 and 2020. In the next few months we want to work to have a basic agreement in the Board of Labor Relations on the model of the Catalan brand of labor relations. Woven product. I come from the world of business, you know. I've been working in a company for years. And I think we need to give support to our businesses, to the product fabric, to the talent, to create new jobs, to consolidate what we have, to attract new businesses, to generate the product fabric of the future, to consolidate and to create new job opportunities. We will create wealth in this country through businesses, and we need this wealth to be able to redistribute it and to make the ambitious social policies we want to do. That is why we will continue to deploy the National Pact for Industry, at the time of 2020, and that in its equator it has already achieved a presuppositional execution of almost 800_million euros, a 43,4_percent of the total presupposed. We are preparing the Industry 4.0 programme, which will put a whole set of services, programs, access to local, national and international infrastructure and procurement activities to accompany them in this process of technological transformation. We are also leaving the Technical Office of Barriers to Export, a unique information window of value added to businesses, to small businesses, which minimizes the impact of barriers that these can find in their outward exit processes. We will continue to strengthen the ICF as a public bank of reversal, oriented to our product texture. In the first half of this year, 812 companies and entities worth 286 million euros were financed, 34 per cent more than in the first half of last year. And 98_percent of the funded projects correspond to peppers and autonomes, two main sectors of our economy. We will also approve the decree on the tourist guide activity of Catalonia. And in the commercial field we will continue to advance in the elaboration of the preliminary draft law of the urban economic promotion areas, the APEU, and which we want to approve in this new course, in the Agenda Comerç 20/21, which must mark the master lines of the sector, and in the creation of the Catalan Agency of Commerce, Crafts and Fashion, so that the promotion policies are as agile as possible. Finally, we will shortly present the draft law facilitating the economic activity, at the time we continue to deploy the Single Business Window Plan 2019-2021, hoping that finally, after years of work, the Barcelona Assembly will join us. Digital policies. The Internet has changed our lives. Catalonia has become one of Europe's leading digital hubs. Now we are entering a second phase of this digital revolution on ideas, names like 5G, artificial intelligence, blockchain or big data will change our production, economic and social system forever. This is why we have proposed to develop an authentic digital agenda that allows you to situate Catalonia as one of the leaders of this revolution through these following projects: First of all, working on a new digital identity model, Identicate, which we presented just a few weeks ago. Catalonia will thus become the first country in which the city is the owner, manager and custodian excluded from its identity and data. We are also preparing the Catalan letter for the rights and digital responsibilities, from which we presented the first proposal at the end of June, and now we will continue working, a visit this September 15 has completed the participatory process open to citizens. This same morning, at the meeting of the Executive Board, we approved the Digital Talent programme to generate, retain and attract digital talent to Catalonia and support the digital sector. We are developing Catalonia's artificial intelligence strategy from a basic document and a participatory process, which we are closing in half of October. In short, we will present to you the Cybersecurity Strategy of the Government of Catalonia 2019-2022, at the time we have to set aside the Cybersecurity Agency of Catalonia, two essential elements at the time of strengthening cybersecurity policies, which are key to the world that has touched our lives. And I'll talk about it later on, we're still pushing, because it's an absolute priority of this government, the plan to get optical fiber across the country. Knowledge system. Catalonia's knowledge system – universities, research centres, hospitals, research infrastructures – is consolidated year after year as one of the highest quality and most competitive in southern Europe. Two figures to prove it. Catalonia is the country of Europe with the most universities among the best in the continent. We are Europe's second-largest resource-gathering country, according to the European Reserach Council, per million inhabitants; it wishes in absolute terms, despite being the seven per population, only surpassed by the Netherlands. But here – here – more than anywhere else we can put up with, here we have to give it an even stronger boost to continue improving quality and competitiveness in the generation of knowledge. We are articulating, through a great agreement of country in which all the agents involved are involved, the National Covenant for the Society of Knowledge, of which we constituted the consulting council on the past divestitures. We have approved the lowering of university lecturers because students coming from the new degrees of one hundred and forty credits can enjoy the first master course at the price of the degree they have taken. It was one of the government's commitments and we were able to implement it despite the fact that we still had no presupposition. Our compromise is to continue to deepen in equity policies, lowering also by 30_per_cent the tuition fee for students located on the familial renderings of the 3, 4 and 5 trams of the price per income model, and initiating a wage scholarship policy. For what it does to the teaching policy, the Government of the Generality is trying to reverse the hard effects that our universities have had on the Spanish government's imposition of the repositioning fee, which became 0_per_cent in 2012, 10_per_cent on 13 and 14, and 50_per_cent in 2015. We are also preparing the preliminary draft of the law of science in Catalonia, which must allow us to hold the highest legal rank provided for the Catalan scientific policy. And all this is recognised at European level. This policy for large infrastructures has had a clear support from Europe. If I may, and you see quite clearly, he was made clear with the election by the European Commission of the Barcelona Supercomputing Centre to join one of the three European high-capacity supercomputers, MareNostrum 5, which will involve a reversal of the European Union around 100_million euros. I insist, all folded with the aim of consolidating Catalonia as a European and global reference policy in the field of knowledge. During this September I had the opportunity to visit great country projects. Where I think this country can certainly point out the synchro and the Alba Park, with immense potential, to Cerdanyola. The new projects of the Hospitallet: the mayor of the Hospitallet explained to me that it is previewing a..., almost, in one of the projects, that will combine the Hospital Duran and Reynals and the Hospital of Bellvitge, build a 1.7 European places of also scientific and technological pole to the Hospitallet. But neither are these, the great projects, on which we only have to focus and emmiralate, no; they are the small businesses that every day innovate and receive a prize. I was also able to visit..., I visited this September Barberà del Vallès, where we have the company awarded for Pimec 2019 as the most innovative company; a company that is already exporting to twelve countries and that year ago aspires to double its billing. Three exhibitions, if I may, of the reality and future of Catalonia in this revolution of knowledge that, I insist, we must know how to lead. Next block – a block that I have also felt speak to it often –: country alive. To fill life and opportunity coffers for everyone, in search of territorial balance and sustainability. We have a country alive, full of vitality, but it also suffers from some of the evils of modern cities, aging and depopulation, and leaves territories without activity and with difficulty to guarantee their future. We often talk about this with the Agriculture Adviser, and we often agree that in the next few years, these words with which all of our prayers fill the mouth of "territorial balance and sustainability can no longer be heard if we do not start a policy today that really allows us to balance our country. I think that we have this horizon of two years, and this implies not only the policies that the Government can pull forward, but, if I may say so, a cultural change in the country, a cultural change that passes to prestige the page, to prestige the people of the camp of Catalonia and the people of the sea of Catalonia as well. For this reason, they know that we have promoted the Strategy for Territorial Dynamization, with this project which, on the same day as the Country of Opportunity, a living country, based on bilaterality and specialisation, because not every region requires the same solutions, years contrary, must be the person who has seen the High Land or the Pallars or the High Urgell that tells us how you think we can help them better. We have already created the interdepartmental commissions and we have begun to work together with the Councils of Mayors of the Pallars Sobirá, of the Alt Urgell, well soon from the High Land, and we have already met with that of the Ebre River. And now that I am the Ribera, as you know, the Generalitat has coordinated with the different administrations the actions to give response to the effects of that summer fires, among which, 11_million_i_mig that are mobilized from the Generalitat, because we consider it our priority to attend to all the inhabitants of the Ribera. After eight years... – I think it's also a very positive data, a data that I also make in my visits to the country's assemblies the people agraeix, the mayors and mayors agraeixen–, we have recovered, after eight years, the unique platform of works and services 2020-2024, with a endowment of 250_million euros and an up-to-date clause depending on the government's budgetary availability. I recall that the call is open until November 15. The Local Cooperation Fund has also increased by 3.4_per_cent, an increase included in the new assumption project that did not come to fruition, but that we will again include in the 2020 assumptions. And finally, now, more extensively, I insist on this government's commitment to bring optical fiber to the whole country, to all the capitals of Catalonia by 2020 and to all the municipalities of Catalonia by 2023. It's a plan, it's a plan that the Government of the Generality couldn't do alone, and that's why we came to an agreement with the four Catalan deputies so we could fold it. In one year, the Government has deployed more than six-hundred kilometres of optical fiber from the country and we have made important deployments, such as the new C-32 north network sections, Ripoll-Campdevànol, Palafrugell-Begur, and the formalization of sharing agreements and managed with local administrations, all following the digitization task of all Catalan regions. We don't have to hang on. We'll continue on this line. Agri-food policies. Our country goes on to strengthen, as I said before, the world of pagesia and to prestige it and for the development of rural and maritime areas, because they are rich and of quality and allow to fix people to the territory. I'm used to always setting the same example: that it will be good for this country to have the Pritzker award for architecture working in Olot. I'm what I want for my country, to have the Pritzker in Olot, to have the best possible company in the High Land. We also need our professionals to return to their territory, that is to say, not to go away, because they were olotins and did not go away. But we therefore need optical fiber to arrive, that it has good internet connections and good communication connections, etc. But all this also happens, I insist, to estimate the country that we have, to prestige the page and to actually tell us that without this landscape, it is possible that our country will stop being what it is. And, therefore, we will approve the regulation that will be developed by the Law of Agrarian Spades, which this Parliament recently approved, as a key tool against rural depopulation. We will implement the decree of management of soil fertilization and ramadere discharges, which guarantees the preservation of the environment, the viability of the ramadere farms and of the catalan meat sector, vital for our economy. We will begin to deploy the strategic Pla of the 2019-2024 rural agent body, approved in July. And in order to improve the functionality of our forests and as a fire prevention measure we will develop the Catalan forest strategy, which contemplates a multifunctional plan of the forests of our country. Allow me here, too, to hang on for a moment. It is vital and requires the commitment of the whole country to a cultural change in the forests of Catalonia and in the management of the forests of Catalonia. We have to approach it in a global way, this strategy for our forests. And to give value, the value that is worth our territory, to put in value the one that produces our territory. Therefore, we have reactivated the Català Council of Food, which will have to define the national pact for the country's food policy accordingly. And, in addition, during the course, we will approve the decrees that update and improve the regulations on the sale of proximity foods, organic agricultural production, food crafts and the Catalonia Wine Law – I said well, wine. And we will implement the measures provided for in the approved action plan to boost sectors such as fruit candy, hazelnut and typhoon, and we will approve the support plan for the citrus tree of the Ebre. Territorial and mobility policies. Also, if I may, and it is my personal experience, but go where you go, talk to whomever you are, with any mayor of large or small municipalities, at these times very often the two priorities are, listen, communications, digital communications, but communications also good roads, a good functioning of railway services. Therefore, the policies of territory and mobility are essential for this better country, for this ordered country, for this country that protects its territory and wants to preserve its natural heritage. In the field of mobility and road safety, we will continue to work on the establishment of a national pact for safe and sustainable mobility, which took place its first session last July in order to smooth out the objectives marked at the Strategic Platform and with zero vision. Towards the end of 2019, it is expected that the 2020-2022 Road Safety Plan will be drafted, which will specify, among others, a new transit management model. Next November, we will set aside a new subway station on line 10, the station of the City of Justice, which is attached to the other stations on line 10 in the march of this legislature; some stations that have been reactivated by Councillor Rull and Vice President Junqueras and that are now culminating. In three years and a half, we have put in service about 4,000_million euros of investment in the railway network, perlongations to Sabadell, the year 2017, and Terrassa, the year 2015, the L9 to the Prat airport, 2016 and line 10 to the barri de la Mina, the year 2018. We have driven and continue to work on the Urban Agenda of Catalonia, with a participatory and consensual process to define how our cities of the future are to be, how we have to assume the impacts they have to see, for example, with climate change or how globalisation or the energy model should be given opportunities. We will continue with the proceedings of the urban master plans for the revision of unsustainable soils in the area of the Upper Pyrenees, in which one hundred and sixty areas of urban extension of the twenty-six Pyrenean municipalities are examined, and in the area of the coast of Girona, a territory with a strong urban pressure and a high complexity that we must preserve. We will be fond of the creation of the natural heritage and biodiversity agency, which is in parliamentary process and we will continue with the deployment of the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Strategy as a tool to preserve our environment and fight for the declining trend of decreasing vertebrate and invertebrate species. Next block, country just. That is to say, to ensure that the Public Administration has a fair deal for the citizen so that there is truly equal opportunity in this country. The ingredients with which we work because the citizens trust in the work of the Catalan institutions in the line of the most advanced democracies are: impartiality, transparency, prevention, zero corruption, integrity, accountability and participation. This is why we are working in the Strategy of Fighting Corruption and Strengthening Public Integrity, a powerful commitment of the Government to have a more leverage in the institutionalization of integrity and the ethical behaviour of the Administration of the Generality. At the end of the year we will have specified a maximum of twenty-five concrete and insoluble measures in two years, according to the existing international evidence, just at the beginnings, at the beginnings of September, we have opened to the citizen a participatory process because you make your contributions to it. We also take up the drafting of the Code of Ethics of the public service of Catalonia, which the application of Article 155 of the Constitution has put an end to and which will end this year. We are also working on the momentum of electronic voting in electoral and citizen participation processes, and we have approved the Law Project to regulate the electronic voting process for Catalans and Catalans residing abroad, with the aim of ensuring the exercise of the right to vote of a collective that finds special difficulties always in order to be able to vote. We will deploy all the potentialities of the Open Government Plan 2019-2021 and apply the Tax fraud prevention and reduction plan 2019-2022, out of which was the publication of the list of those contributors with tax debts greater than 1_million euros. Public administration. I would like to highlight the agreements with the unions and the actions that this Government has taken to recover the labor rights of public workers. I think there has also been a very important effort here. They know that we signed an agreement with the unions for the return of the extraordinary payments of 2013 and 2014 worth more than €1,100_million. And we have not worked so hard to recover rights, but to improve them, making an increase in remuneration to public workers of the 1,95_per_cent, the year 2018, and a 2,75_per_cent, this year 2019. I also want to highlight three other agreements with unions that will improve the quality of life of workers and public workers, for inter-administrative mobility, for gender-based violence, for re-entry into the workplace in case of special hardship or agreement to extend the time flexibility because parents and mothers of disabled children can make meetings or visits to the schools of their children. In addition to the public offer of 15,018 places – 15,018 places – to increase the level of stability, 6,633 public places have been convened, this 2019, with priority for basic services and, in the own months, we plan to continue carrying out new calls. We are working to have an effective, efficient and modern public administration, so that we will process a digital administration decree, so that we will create the digital administration observatory, so that we will implement a teletreball-like model and that is why we want to extend the culture of electronic voting to the Generality, so that we want to simplify the regulations. We have done so, we have reduced to around two-hundred obsolete laws with a first plan of regulatory simplification, but we need to make a second plan and a third plan, so that we can reduce all obsolete laws. An inclusive administration and examples for the rest of society. Today – and I am not very happy – we have approved an agreement to give a new impetus to the DIL programme for the integration of people with intellectual disabilities into the Generality, a pioneering programme which began in 2003, with twenty-five people, and which currently already counts almost one hundred workers, and which has since, with this agreement, extended to the entire public sector. Interior. We are working to keep Catalonia as a forward country in terms of security and emergencies. We are driving a new legislative framework that strengthens and updates the model of the public security system of Catalonia, which will be implemented by means of two new laws: the Law of the police system of Catalonia and the Law of Emergencies of Catalonia. At the beginning of the year we called 750 new squadron moves and 250 bombers, a total of 1,000. Last September 17th we approved a new offer of 1,000 seats, 750 new seats for squadron movements and 250 for bombers, which we planned to summon at the beginning of the year. Between five and six years ago, the plants of the moves and the plants of the bombers were not up to date, we were late and, therefore, we have set ourselves up and we have managed to unfreeze a situation that, from the first moment, we thought it was right to push. We will respond to those ordinary crimes that have increased, as well as the challenges posed by organized crime. The attention to the victim, focusing more concretely on fighting the mortality of the traffic and the most vulnerable collectivities: minors, LGBTI, women and great people, among others. The attention of security to the city of Barcelona, with the impulse of the strategic Pla Barcelona city safe. For what it does to the emergencies, they want to reverse the deficiencies with which it was found in the body, so we have worked on Project Bombers 2025, which includes the forecasts of Strategic Plan 17-22, identifying the current and future needs for what it does to staff, materials and infrastructure works. It was also very satisfying to be able to sign with the firefighters an agreement on working conditions, approved by the government, and which, as I said, provides for a thousand new places of firefighters to function in the shell of firefighters in four years, 250 years ago, 250 years ago, this one, the rest, 2021 and 2022. Also in the field of civil protection we want to implement the resilience plan before situations of risk and emergencies in Catalonia, which include different strategies, such as now the observer of our risks and threats. And I would like here, if I may, to remind you of the words I addressed to the new movers and police officers of the 30-day promotion of basic police training course, an act that we celebrated in Egara on June 19th. In that opportunity, I said: "One of the basic pillars of the welfare state is that the citizenry can live together, in peace and security and, at the same time, can exercise all and every one of its rights with complete freedom and respect for others. That is why public security, as we agree at home, is based on an integral model that goes from citizenship to the management of public space, from mobility to the care of our surroundings, from the compliment of obligations as citizens to the guarantee of civil and democratic rights. And he ended up: "Whereever I design you – I was addressing the new promotion – "to start your professional tasks, you did not lose sight of the fact that you are serving your people and your country and that you are serving it in the best possible way, from professionalism and proximity. I want you very uncertain from now on, I'm sure you'll have moments and events that are difficult to manage, but I have no doubt that with the training you've received these months and the willingness to do it right, I'll get you out. Many uncertainties and many thanks for the big pocket you're starting to make. And always remember that there are always civil and democratic freedoms, values of which you, from today on, are the guarantors. Today she wanted to return to this point, the Catalan police must be the guarantor, always and at all times, of the civil and democratic freedoms of our country, a police that acts under the basic criteria of mediation, proportionality and opportunity and that has in serving the citizenry as well as the ultimate fact of bringing justice to prevail over strength and revenge. Justice. We want to hear justice as one of the three strands of the right state, real and separate from each other, and we understand justice as a tool of social cohesion that also places people at its center. That is why we will continue to intensify, as was the case this past year, the deployment of the e-Justice system modules. as, with the aim of reducing the use of paper to justice, but also to reduce time and effort. By July it was already deployed to 320 of the 583 jutjats in Catalonia. In collaboration with the entities of the third sector of the Social Participation Table, the Government will continue to work on a plan to support the transition from prison to the community, we will also work on the digital literacy plan at the prison centres to promote the reintegration of those who have had to spend time deprived of their liberty. We want to finish the legislature with a full, modern civilian code of Catalonia and serving people. Thus, we have begun the regulation of the lease contract for urban estates which, as I have already mentioned, has had a first concretion in Decree Law 9/19 of 21 May of urgent measures in the matter of yield content in the lease contracts of housing, which did not count with the support of this chamber, but that the proposed regulation has been included in the draft of the law of major abst. We are working on a law of democratic memory in Catalonia that, among other aspects, will empower the Generality to remove the Francoist symbolism that sadly – and I say painfully – we still have in our public space and that in no way can we allow ourselves to continue having a minute longer. And we will continue to deploy the Pla de foes and the genetic identification program that has allowed for two years to be built out of 517 locations in Catalonia, has recovered 290 bones and has identified five victims of civil war and Francoism. These five victims, these five names are important, counsel. We've recovered the story from five families thanks to those five names. We are also working on the Advance Bill on the mandatory mediating information session in family processes to encourage the parties to reach good agreements between them. And I finish this block talking about the global country, having your own eyes on the debate and on the back of the world, because it is everyone's responsibility to improve the conditions of the planet. According to the current article of the Statute, the Government is obliged and wants to push Catalonia's projection abroad and promote its interests in this area. More than ever in these moments that Catalonia has seen, we have our own eyes in the world and against all those who want it quiet, says Josep Borrell or Global Spain, we will continue to explain to us, because, if we do not explain ourselves, they will explain to us some more. For this, in the first phase, of urgency, after 155, we reopened the delegations of the United Kingdom and Ireland, Germany, Italy, Switzerland and the United States. In the second phase of consolidation, the delegations of France, Portugal, the Balkans and Nordic countries re-opened. In the third phase, expansion, we foresee the opening of nine delegations to the Mediterranean, Central Europe and Baltic countries, the Middle East, Asian countries and Latin America, of which the opening of the delegations of Mexico, Argentina and Tunisia has already been approved. And I would like to be glad and congratulated that friends of the Republic exile, like Mexico and Argentina, are countries where Catalans already have their own. Today, we have approved the government's strategy for the Mediterranean 2030, prepared with the participation of more than 250 actors and experts, and we will also, for the first time in our country, develop a plan for sub-Saharan Africa. We will continue with the conviction that Catalonia is and must be a safe port. And this is a point where clearly we see the unbearable limits of our autonomy. This August, with the Mediterranean being kingly, we must see impotent as our desire to gather could not be brought to an end. That is why we also want to be independent, because we do not want to be accomplices to states that no longer comply with the universal laws of the sea, but with the minimum notion of humanity and respect for human life that is essential for us. [[Greetings.]] We are working on the draft regulation decree of the Council of Catalonia Exterior and on the draft decree for the official recognition of Catalan communities abroad, so that they can benefit from the services, aids and services established by the Law of the Catalan Community Exterior. We will already enter the third phase of the preparation of Pla Europe and propose a white book on the visit of the Catalan paper society to play in the redefinition of the European Union. We are very attentive and we are very much on what can happen to Brèxit, to give all the support that our businesses need and in common, all applying a plan of shock to respect, which we approved a few months ago. Finally, I would like to say between this realm of worldview, that we will continue to promote the Catalan culture of the world, through, and among others, the Focus Catalunya, in the London Book Fair, of the coming year; we will participate in the Venice Architecture Biennale, also of 2020, and we will celebrate, on September 2020, the first International Quartet Biennial, in Barcelona, with the artistic direction of the Quartet Casals. Today, we approved the National Plan for the implementation of the 2030 Agenda in Catalonia, with 919 commitments, 810 of which are commitments to Catalonia and 109 from Catalonia to the world, which will allow us to align with the 17 objectives of sustainable development of the United Nations. Councilman Calvet, just a few days ago, claimed, in New York City, the role and compromises of the regions before the climate emergency. When we talk about the 2030 Agenda, we think about the global challenges and, especially, on a subject of great topicality, the climate emergency, a situation declared for the Government of Catalonia last May, one of the first governments to declare it, affecting the pool of agents, social and economic institutions of our country, but also the rest of the world. That is why, in a three-month period, it is to say, before the end of the year, we will present to Parliament a proposal for a decree to deal with climate change and to establish all the legal measures that allow us to move forward in the settlement of the objectives of the Climate Change Law, with particular attention to the promotion of renewable energies, self-consumption and distributed energy. We want to extend to the great cities of Catalonia the area of low emissions that will be set aside the 1st generation of 2020 to the municipality of Barcelona, the Hospitallet, Cornellà, Esplugues and Sant Adrià de Besòs, that will ban the circulation of the most polluting vehicles on the laborable days, in order to improve the quality of the air and public health. The tape is to reduce, in the next fifteen years, 30_percent of the emissions to the atmosphere of contaminants of local effect, mainly of NO2 and PM10 particles. The tasks required for the effective implementation of the CO2 emissions tax on vehicles are due in the end so that the first generation of 2020 is in place. We don't want plastic from a used sun. We will continue to drive measures to reduce the use of a_sol and its residues, which allow us to improve the traceability of these residues and, at the same time, prepare the way for us products that are more sustainable. In the first half of the year, we would be in a position to present in this Parliament, for its debate, the new law on prevention and management of waste and efficient use of resources. Finally, I would like to remind you that, in the penultimate Executive Council that we have celebrated, we agreed to give support to global mobilizations aimed at fighting the climate change called for this diverging, expressing our support for the civic initiations that are emerging to confront the climate emergency. [[Some applause.]] I finish the block, therefore, on the government's side and don't start another one, the penultimate one, in which I will talk about the hardships and laziness of the State and the project of presumption. Look, I find myself there every day. I collect from all the areas that can be imagined, I visit gatherings, entities, foundations, entities of the third sector, cooperatives... and all present to me a series of absolutely legitimate, absolutely legitimate complaints, but this country is not viable unless it resolves its fiscal deficit, it is not viable, we will not get out of it. Because this unbearable tax deficit is a social deficit, in the end, and this is a long one that has a tremendous impact and that I see day by day. Before I asked them that question, this is the one that won't let me sleep: "Where could this country be without this last? We need to get rid of the charges of the state. The fiscal deficit is a social deficit, it is a deficit in infrastructure, it is a deficit in the absence of a financing proposal. I will never tire of repeating it and the whole chamber should never tire of repeating it, because it does not affect us to a part of this chamber, it affects the citizens of Catalonia, to all the citizens of Catalonia to have more resources. I will never tire of denouncing Catalonia's chronic and systemic fiscal deficit. Advanced data from 2015 and 2016 continue to show these results. The average of the period is 8_percent of GDP, i.e. 16,000_million euros per year. Let's put it in context. Every day we leave Catalonia more than 40 million euros a day, and we can't do anything about it. With two weeks of fiscal deficit, we could do all the educational centers that are in prefabricated modules and that have a definite equipment. One day and a half, we'd have enough to pay for the work of the new hospital in Viladecans, 60_million euros. I, one day and five hours away, would pay for the first phase of the new Joan XXIII Hospital. With four_months, we would have enough resources to make the Roadmap, announced in 2008 for the State and that, in two years– in two years– the State has only executed 10_per_cent. Does it look okay to you? Does it seem normal that the State has executed, in two years, the 10_per_cent of its Rolling Plate? I will never tire of denouncing the growing vertical imbalance. The Central Administration of the State has systematically increased resources by 83.3_per_cent since 2010, while in the autonomous communities, the increase has been 18.6_per_cent. Local administration and social security still have lower increases. I will never tire of denouncing unjust and arbitrary deficit targets. They continue to be without a reflection of who does the expense, incomplete what the Law says and still ignores who is the starting point of each public administration. I will never tire of denouncing the outdated, obsolete and unfair financing model. Catalonia, every year, occupies the third position in tax entries per capita and, after applying all model mechanisms, we move to occupy the drawing position in rejected resources and, if it is considered the cost of living, we become the penultimate. Is that normal? In fact, Catalonia is located in a 1.1_per_cent below the pool of autonomous communities with waste resources and an 11.1_per_cent below, if it is considered the price differential. The model is not that it is inefficient or unfair, it is that, moreover, it has seen it repeatedly postpone its revision and that, for desserts, it has not implied the reduction of regional disparities that should have justified it. I will not tire of denouncing the more than 11,000_million euros, in outstanding debts, that the Generalitat of the State, 3,710_millions of outstanding debt of the compliment of the Third Additional Provision of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. How many years do we have with this? 1,250_million euros of outstanding debt financing of the Mossos d'Esquadra, from 2013-2019. 3,600 million euros of insufficiency accumulated in the lack of state funding for the Law of Dependency, which, more than impacting on the finances of the Generality, impacts on the welfare of the people, the most vulnerable, those who are in a situation of dependence. I will never tire of denouncing the state's investments in Catalonia that are very much under our pes in GDP and population, but not just the presupposition, which is already miserable, no, the execution of the presupposition, which overcomes misery. In fact, the degree of execution of investments in Catalonia is always – but always, eh? – under the middle of the autonomous communities. For the period 2015-2018, the degree of execution in Catalonia is 65_per_cent. Unbelievable. Between 2013 and 2018, the State ceased to implement a third of the planned investments. What does that mean? So, 6,708_millions. Of the 6,708_million expected this year, 2,214 have ceased to be executed. That's all they're reelers, that's all they're new train lives, that's all it's to make life easier for the citizen, that's all it's a better country. All this is what we are losing in Catalonia. Focus on the year 2018, focus on a year. The general assumptions of the State of 2018 predicted for Catalonia a reversal of 1,312_millions. How many are going to run? 757_millions, just over 50_per_cent. Is that normal? But don't you, opposition groups, rise up against this situation? Or does it look okay to you? Because this affects all the citizens of Catalonia, all the voters of all the parties that we are here. To us, run 58_per_cent. At the middle of the autonomous communities, the 76_per_cent, all over, and in Madrid, the 114_per_cent. Perhaps yes, it is that it turns out that Madrid needs to execute the 114_per_cent and us, the 58_per_cent. Must it be like a rule to which we have to... what biblical fate is this, that we must resign ourselves to this vexation? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.3.0	One moment. Just a moment, President. Ask the public, please, to refrain from making demonstrations. Go on, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.4.0	More fatalities. The Socialist Government will approve the 2008-2015 Roundtable. Of that promise– of that promise, huh? – that these promises always come, this, the Mediterranean Corridor, etcetera, has only reversed 14_percent of the 4,500_million compromises, 14_percent. Miri, I have to remember the analysis that Foment del Treball did, in the study of the state of infrastructure in Catalonia, I have to remind them. It's that I totally agree. As Foment, we consider that an additional investment effort of 10,000_million euros from now until 2023 is needed, so that we can bring up to date all the unfinished strategic works that exist in the country. I don't know... it's what you call it. And, in another area of things, miri, I also share the diagnosis of another employer, that of Cecot, respect the energy costs that Catalan companies have to bear respect to others in the State and that affects more than three_ thousand Catalan companies. Until when do we continue to have the most expensive electricity in the whole of the state? This affects businesses, it affects citizens. [[Greetings.]] What's the deal? What about the gluttonies we find every day? Get up and think, "What's going to happen today? See what they've decided. Well, let's remember things that governments have decided, huh? , which has decided, for example, the government of the PSOE, when it decided to maintain political control over the finances of the Generalitat, which had imposed another minister, Montoro, of the PP. But, well, it's the same, on this subject, let's say that it's a success in which you don't absolutely notice any change, justifying it for the risk of collapsing the finances of the Generalitat, but, well, that, when it's not that, now justify it with the deplorable excuse that statements that political representatives can make are threatening and, therefore, recognize that this control is a political control of Catalonia's self-government, I don't know, and it seems that it's also another of these biblical fates that we are going to endure, right? But there's not only this unjustified political control, there's an indiscriminate funding offensive. There is a principle that regulates the relationship between administrations, which is the principle of institutional loyalty, a principle that the State has unilaterally obviated the times that convinced it. Here we have the most unilateral state in the world. The State has taken the decisions that have convinced it, often with the negative consequences, very negative, for the city of Catalonia, without ever predicting any compensation. Look, I'm giving you some examples of this institutional complacency, because it affects all the citizens of Catalonia, and here we're talking about them. This is the state of the nation, of which the citizens are affected: the impact of the change in VAT management on the recovery of the year 2017; the wage increases granted for the ministry and the unions, without providing for the transfer of resources to finance them; the impact on the IRPF's autonomous tramway, the reduction of the taxable base and the non-updating of the IRPF's beasts, VAT and special taxes, among others. Over the escandol of the beasts... it's a magnificent case, huh? It is a paradigmatic case of the absolutely perfected and precise technique of the socialist government of – we could say so – the principle of deception re-deceiving deception. The principle of deception consists, first: ministers who claim to have reports they don't have; second, chants, why not, until there is a government we won't be able to pay; third, and now a few days ago, the minister suddenly finds a slave and, oh, miracle! , just as the electoral campaign began, it seems that these beasts could reach Catalonia. Shame, gentlemen, shame. Another example, another example that I would advise you to remind me and that, of course, before all this amount of delliality, you could go unnoticed: the judicial taxes that the State collects in Catalonia. I will say: "It is a minor issue. Let's talk about this minor issue. Between €40 million and €60 million are currently being received in Catalonia on the basis of judicial activity, which is already in force until 2005. All right, these 40 and 60 million, since 2005 there are 400 million euros of deficit accumulated in favour of the State and to the detriment of the Government of Catalonia, which we lend, in the field of the Administration of Justice, the servants. So, they've flown, too, these 400_millions. There wasn't one. These moneys do not reach the administrations with skills in support and legal aid, but the State fails to fulfil the law and the main purpose of the tax, which is nothing other than the support of the services of free justice, and which the Generality must guarantee. What? With his own resources. And let's get into the perverse dynamic: you don't have the financial resources, you have to look for the resources, these resources stop you from doing what you could do... This is not to speak of the financial income generated for the hundreds of millions of euros per year of the deposits and judicial appropriations coming from the judicial activity in Catalonia, of which the Generality, as you can imagine, therefore, does not see a single euro, nor does it. Another example, the case of the port of Barcelona. It is the port that provides the most contributions to the Interportuari Compensation Fund. And, in change, it has road and rail accesses hanging from years ago. What is the use of the money generated by the port of Barcelona? Shouldn't it be more logical than serving in the port of Barcelona? So, no. There's a whole arc of Sant Martí's gibberish, to hear us, that fills up all the possible chromatic range. We would never end, you see, but, if I may, two who are not strictly economic, but which is worth highlighting. First, on the external issue, permanent limitations to foreign policy, to be able to have a own voice, to defend Catalonia's interests to the world. Or the activity of this company that has built the State, of Global Spain, which is not only an artifact intended to sell a certain idea of Spain, but also subjective opinions about the events of the First of October, which do not only harm the image of Catalonia, is to say, of all Catalans, but also violates the presumption of innocence of political prisoners. So far, Global Spain has arrived. Or recently, as the Digital Policy Advisor denounced, when the signature of the Mediterranean 5G Corridor was vetoed, which is an initiative that will benefit all citizens of Catalonia and that the Spanish State vetoes us, we do not know exactly why. I insist, all these incompliments, delleialities, bad faith of the State, do not harm the Government of the Generality, nor the parliamentary majority; harm the progress of the productive sectors, harm the creation of opportunities, harm the capacity for innovation of the Catalan economy. In short, harm the well-being and prosperity of the city council and citizens of Catalonia. And then, as it is possible that any other year our country is condemned to the oec, to an over-exercise to meet our citizens' legitimate claims, to have to work with 16,000_million less and with all these pending dues. All those Members who have worked in a private company will perfectly hear the following example. Imagine you're in your company, huh? , in which you find that every year, at the time of executing the assumptions you have planned appears a game of the minus 8_per_cent; each year, systemically. The pension plans that you had planned for the retired workers; the renovation of the facilities that you wanted to do to your businesses; that policy of ambition, of international strategy that you thought this year was the one that was playing; new facilities; wage increases for your workers, all this is impossible to do with a constant 8_per_cent less, with this financing, economic, which our country suffers from. Presumables 2020. Because it's that you can't talk about assumptions without talking about the hardships that Catalonia suffers. Because, if not, they don't get along. That is to say, with the current situation, and taking into account this economic situation, we must be able to work as much as possible and to extend our skills and resources to the maximum in order to be able to give the service that the citizens of Catalonia deserve. It is set_monthly compared to its own petition to account for the preparation of the Advance Project of the Law of Presumables of the Government of Catalonia for 2019. I take up the subject, and I take it back with the same sense of responsibility, transparency, and student dialogue. I appeal to the Chamber, to the responsibility of all the groups in the Chamber, for the need that this country has to have conditions such as those that are planted, eminently social, to make Catalonia a country of equality and equity, a living country and a just country. You ask them, you ask, that you forget that we are back in the electoral campaign, and that you think of the effects on the citizenry of a new presuppositional prorogation. Now, with only a few months of difference, the government has made the effort to have two proposals for assumptions aimed at making Catalonia a country of rights and opportunities for everyone. Yes, it is the responsibility of the government, but also of all representatives of the chamber, to give response to the needs of the Catalan society. First point, responsibility. Second point, transparency. The presupposition proposal of 2019 was not only explained to Parliament, but it is found on the Economy website, because the citizenry can consult it. The 2020 proposal faces it with the same transparency as it did then, as you have been able to prove with the first meetings we have ever had. In both cases we want full transparency with parliamentary groups, providing all the information needed for the dialog, because this is the third point: dialog. We keep the maximum amount of dialogue with all parliamentary groups. We presented you in the last weeks the basic lines of the presupposition. Now we need to get the details straight. I would like to reiterate our willingness to reach an agreement to deal with the assumptions of the coming year. We want assumptions because Catalonia and its citizens need and deserve to have some assumptions. We have a country every time more different than we had in 2017, with different needs, with new emergencies and with pending assignments that deserve to be met. We want to get it. I, as well as the electoral situation in Madrid, and the lack of contact in Madrid, we need these assumptions. They are not the ones we want, basically because we would never be satisfied with being under the economic burden of fiscal deficit and deficit targets. But we want to make the best possible assumptions, and that's why we're open to improving them with everyone's input. Who are the main messages of this proposal for a presumption that we are working on? Five. First of all, to maintain the rigour in public finances as a requirement to maintain and improve the state of well-being in order to face the challenge of the future and to have more room for financial sovereignty, as well as to guarantee justice between generations. Second, recovery of current expenditure levels from public health services – greetings, education and social services – before the economic crisis. It should be noted, moreover, that we have been able to recover expenditure on phone services and, at the same time, to accomplish with the unjust objectives of public deficit, going from a deficit of 9,100_million euros in 2010, to 1,025_million euros in 2018, which means a reduction of more than 8,000_million euros throughout this period. Third – it can't be any other way, because this government doesn't have that commitment – the focus of policies is people. I wouldn't have heard that I was here before you explaining anything to you if it wasn't to work for people and for the citizenry. And that's why we insist on the idea of eminently social assumptions. But social spending went further, if I may, also from the three great friends of the welfare state: it has to allow a real equal opportunity regardless of the level of income and also the place where you live in Catalonia. Thus, these assumptions do not only include the expansion of the primary care network, new social housing promotions or the improvement of the service to young extute students, but also includes the deployment of optical fiber throughout the country, the tour of the National Theatre to theatres from all over Catalonia, the recovery of PUOSC or the maintenance of commitments to recover the working rights of public workers. Fourth main idea. Following the objectives of sustainable development and the 2030 Agenda, the commitment is maintained to incorporate indicators of welfare and social progress, as they relate to the time to develop assumptions, more than GDP. But we need to have these indicators of welfare and social progress references now, as the most advanced countries are already making. After the intention of 2019, the assumptions are again framed in a multi-annual scene of entrances and expenditure at mid-term, from 2020 to 2023, which many collectors ask of us, in order to have a predictability, which I understand perfectly. It is one of the main measures of improvement of the assumptions that are being promoted, together with the review of expenditure and the evaluation of public policies. Five great idea. Finally, with these assumptions, we want to continue working to keep a country on the march, a country at a standstill, a country revived, of equality and equity, prepared for the future, a country of rights and opportunities for everyone within the territory, more inclusive and innovative and sustainable. The big figures: the tickets. The proposal in which we are working foresees non-financial non-finalist entries, that is, the entries that allow us to decide and allocate to the departments, 26,257_million euros, with an increment of 3,569_million euros respect to the last approved assumption, that is, more than 16_per_cent than 2017. I honestly think that the xifra is very high, and even more than €1,023_million than the 2019 draft. And this forecast of entrances could increase for a double way. Talk to us. First– always, always there–, negotiation with the State. The payment of some of the parties of the total of 11,000_million euros pending from the State with Catalonia. But I remember that we still have the first payment, of the 1,460_million euros that was committed to pay in four years, pending. If the State is complete, we could devote a lot more of our resources to meeting the needs of the citizenry and probably a lot of suggestions that groups would surely want us to do. So, we demand it from the state, we demand that they pay us the debts we have pending. And, second, renegotiation of the deficit object, going from 0_per_cent to another that is closer to what we would agree with the law, 0,31_per_cent. This is the way we're going with the State, all the difficulties of a state that doesn't dialogue and that carries these debts by watering them, I insist, as if we were to be under this biblical fate. But there's another way, too, and it's a way we pose with all transparency, so we can talk to all groups about it. Let's talk about taxation. Totally agree to advance in the design of a just and efficient tax system that allows the redistributive function. But it must be remembered that Catalonia supports the highest fiscal pressure of the Spanish State in order to allocate sufficient resources to adequately meet the provision of public services. The taxes paid by the citizens of Catalonia are more than enough to provide them with the welfare they deserve. The bad problem in the fiscal deficit resulting from the financing model, which has expired six years. In the past few years there has been a remarkable effort to improve the recaptancy capacity of the Government of Catalonia. Any other year, the Catalonia Tax Agency has managed to increase the collection of taxes that are good and good. The year 2018 has captured a total of 3,452_million euros in concept of taxes propis and cedits, which was already more than 6,1_% compared to 2017, and in this first semester we carry 1,539_million euros, which is more than 3,57_% compared to the same period of the previous year. It is still possible to take one more step, and we want to do it to raise the volume of expenditure, because we need these assumptions of 2020 with this expenditure that I have told you before. We do not rule out, if necessary, reforms in some tax figures, such as the IRPF's autonomic tram or for what it does to environmental taxes, the carbon dioxide emissions tax on mechanical traction vehicles. We would like to see this general policy debate served to reach some kind of agreement in this area. Do we agree to have the assumptions that the people of Catalonia are worth it? This could be an interesting point of agreement. Now, I insist, without forgetting that we want fair assumptions for Catalonia, where the height of the entrances does not fall exclusively to its citizens while other autonomous communities are announcing tax cuts. We can't do it, while we have the debt of the State it's impossible that we can do it. I, finally, certainly, so good, huh? After that principle of deception, however, so many good announcements from the Ministry of Finance to update the beasts for 2019 are not only part of a pre-electoral dynamic but a recognition of the government's appeal just once, and so we are loving to know if tomorrow, tomorrow or, most likely, this week is already said when we get these imports back, and do not use them again as electoral artifacts. The large amounts of expenditure. Expenditure not funded in the finalist. As we are obliged to reduce the deficit, the increase in expenditure is lower than the increase in entries. Thus, the increase respects the 2017 budget will be 2,510_million euros, more than 10.3_%, with a total non-finalist financing expenditure of 26,952_million euros. If we compare, at this level of expenditure, with the outflow of the 2019 proposal, the increase is almost 800_million euros. Therefore, the combination of the departments will increase its expenditure by 2,313_million euros, an overall expenditure boost of 10,2_% compared to 2017. And we will recover, I insist, the current expenditure on public health, education and social services. I think it's worth agreeing. In addition, around 75_% of the increase in expenditure will be earmarked for social expenditure. All folded, therefore, will allow us to work for a better country, I insist – and I would not want to repeat again all that I have commented before the country of equality and equity, the country prepared for the future. But if I were allowed, yes I would, at least at these points, say what it is that can assume, therefore, to have these assumptions or not to have them. For example, to recover the generality's funding to municipal children's homes, I already predicted in the pre-project for the 2019 release, and that we are prepared to even improve on the assumptions of 2020. Increase the menjador beaks to the schools. The 2019 proposal provided for an increase of 7_millions to the 78_millions we are already investing in, and our intention is that we can even overcome it. Measures of equal access to university studies. We are very aware, the councillor is not very aware, in soc very conscious, that we need at this point our students to introduce wage scholarships, equal prices of masters, degrees and reduction of taxes. And if I do, in view of the figures, they think that it might be even more ambitious than we were in the outburst of the 2019 project, let's talk to it, let's talk to it. Thanks to these assumptions, we will deploy the fourth tranche of the Law of Guaranteed Citizenship Income; we will deploy and finish the National Industry Pact; we can continue to invest 20_millions for the Alba synchro and an additional 5_millions of euros to build the Advanced Microscopy Centre; we will deploy optical fiber throughout the country; we will continue with Smartcat strategy; etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. And a point that I would also like to highlight from everyone, from impulse to public transport. The year 2020 will be the year in which the central tram of line 9 will be resumed. I think this is a long-awaited news, and we can do that if we have these assumptions. We will invest up to €460 million until 2030, of which €352 million are set to complete the Garrigue Segarra and complete the corrective measures. As I said before, we're going to get back the Plac único d'obres and serve you in Catalonia to promote local investment and improve it. We'll increase the local cooperation fund and improve it. We could help boost agricultural co-operativeism, and we could recover the plants of movers and firemen and rural agents, which we had frozen. I'm done. The assumptions allow us to respond to the needs and emergencies of all Catalan society, regardless of their age, gender, origin or ideology. We want to start building Catalonia from 20-30, 2030, aligned with the United Nations sustainable development agenda for 2030. They are objective that, I think, we share the whole chamber, because we all want the best for our country, for our people, and that is why let me insist on the prec that I have done before: I ask you to let go of the electoral dynamics, that all folds look at this political course that begins with a built-up one. We need these assumptions of year 2020. I think we share enough country objectives to define a 2020 agenda shared by most of the chamber. We are open to any better proposal that has a positive impact on Catalonia's citizenship, we will listen to them and consider them with the utmost interest. Let's wait for your ideas whenever they're feasible and viable. We continue to respond to what we are asked to prioritize citizens, the collective interest, which is everyone's interest. We must teach ourselves that politics must not only be the art of what is possible, especially if this means the art of speculation, calculation, intrigue, but also the art of the impossible, that is, the art of improving ourselves and the world. These are the words of Václav Havel, one of the most admired personalities. Catalonia faces the art of the impossible, the art of improving ourselves and the world this October. All Catalans, think and vote whatever it is, we'll face the same. Some women and men have been judged for organizing a self-determination reference. The Spanish State will condemn some democrats who did what they had bought to do with their voters and who won the elections. He'll condemn some peaceful and honorable people for doing something that was decriminalized a few years ago. Organizing a referendum is not a crime in any democratic country in the world. And that's why the prosecution, the prosecution, the state attorneys have invented a fake report and the ridiculous rape that never existed. The independence movement has been and is an example of citizenship, of non-violence, of respect, of positive hope, of proposal, and not only of protest, and this character is the most disturbing of its opponents. They don't like us smiling, they don't like us never exercising violence, they don't like us wanting to share with everyone the joy of the process of building a future in freedom. Yes, we must also recognize that the deranged repression that has been directed against us has affected us. It's normal. It is not easy to see your companies and companies in business, to visit President Puigdemont and all the rest of the exiles in Belgium, Switzerland or Scotland, is not easy; but its strength from exile or from cells in the fulcrum of energy and pride and we begin to advance without letting ourselves be defeated by por, threats or mistrust. We want a government in Spain to compromise with the dialect, democracy, politics, rights and freedoms, and that's not it. Follow the color that follows, we get one time and another with this interest of being poorly understood that systematically engages in confrontation. It is the Spanish State that is constantly approaching confrontation with us, it is he who is denouncing, who is asking for it, who is running, who is exiled. We want a political solution. We want Catalans and Catalans to be able to decide our future, that no one can speak for us, that no one can hold back the power to say what we think, that our voice is being heard for all, loud and clear. As simple as if we were in a democratic state. Just as simple as that. As simple as it was in the United Kingdom or Canada. The democratic involvement now affects us especially Catalans, but it will suffer everyone who wants to take the word at any time. I have said this and repeated many times: we will never rise from the dialog table. We are stuck here; « bolted, that would say President Ibarretxe. We hope that there will be someone in Moncloa who is willing to talk and solve the problems talking and not in a interrogation room or in the bench of the accused. But to speak must be brave. There is nothing to negotiate with those who think like you, with whom you can always negotiate with those with whom you are more far away. And this is the courage that is missing in Madrid: a look at the time to be able to resolve conflicts, and not a look in the inn always in the next electoral interests. That I made myself clear once and for all: we'll always want the dialog, but as they don't sound like the table, we'll keep going and we won't stop. [[Greetings.]] And we will re-exercise all the rights that are denied to us, including the right to self-determination; let me be clear, let me be clear from this one, that it is his where the Catalans feel represented. We would have known the Supreme Court's judgment, and we would like to respond in a positive way, for some of the costs of hearing. We'll finish one stage and start another where we take the initiative. We can protest, we can show the sadness, the plan, the lament, but it is up to us to agree, propose, project, build, advance and trace a horizon, with the collective ambition of freedom, with the challenge of completing with the objective of independence. We need all the illusion, all the confidence, all the courage, all the civic and democratic complicity to do it again, to situate this country again more towards the people, more to the service of everyone, more to the abst of every individual dream and more free than ever. It is, as it has always been, at our hands. The art of the impossible, said Havel, and Ramin Jahanbegloo spoke to us about freedom of conscience and moral dignity: here will be the key to the state of birth in this October 2019 that already goes down. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.5.0	Thank you very much. After the intervention of the President of the Generality, and in accordance with Rule 154.2 of the Rules of Procedure, we suspend the session until a quarter of 4 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.6.0	[[The president starts talking without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ... fifteen minutes to parliamentary sub-groups. In the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.7.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, advisors, advisors, president Torra. Mr. Torra, look, today I'd like to start my speech with a compliment on your person, so you don't say. In the last month, you've had a great moment of lucidity. I would dare say that you have had one of the most sincere reflections of what goes in the legislature with you as president. That's when you said you didn't come here to preside over an autonomous community. Of course, that is an irrefutable truth. You did not come here to be the president of the Generalitat to manage an autonomous community. And worst of all, you will have no idea how an autonomous community is managed when you leave office; which, by the way, I hope is soon. And I say, Mr. Torra, that you had a kidnapping of sincerity, it was not a lapse, it was not a betrayal of the subconscious. Because you are quite transparent, you are seen coming. You don't cheat on anyone. Well, yeah, maybe he's cheating on Mr. Sanchez, or maybe Mr. Sanchez is being fooled; the truth is, I don't know, but I assure you we're not. You have not come here to manage an autonomous community. No, no; let him say it – or let him say it. You just have to see that lousy management, to say the least, that you're doing at the head of the government. It's just that that doesn't even give him a chance to be the president of his stairwell. I insist that, perhaps, the Socialist Party gentlemen, for I still deceive them. Or perhaps the Socialist Party gentlemen don't care what you do. But I assure you that the Catalans who suffer daily hellish waits to be cared for in hospitals, or the Catalans who expect a dependency aid that never comes, those Catalans don't care what you do, and you can't look away, as others do. Because you've spent the last sixteen months, Waterloo is coming, Waterloo is coming. And in the meantime, the government offices are empty. But look, you know what? That the waiting rooms of the hospitals were full; while you were between journey and journey, severe poverty has increased by more than a hundred_ thousand people. Meanwhile, we have confirmed ourselves as the worst autonomous community on the waiting lists of dependency. And in the meantime, too, Barcelona has experienced and is experiencing a great security crisis, which is leaving us frightening data, Mr Torra. I mean, that you manage, nothing at all. Now yes, about coming here, putting on medallions and also making the victim, that borders it, that comes out to you perfectly. You spend all day with freedom and rights in your mouth. But do you know what I'm saying, Mr. Torra? Tell me what you presume and I'll tell you what you lack. Because the only thing your government is dedicated to day and night is working against the freedoms of the Catalan constitutionalists. Yes, Mr. Torra, we have told you many times. You think Catalonia is yours, but Catalonia is all of us, Mr. Torra. You also believe that the money of all Catalans is for your propaganda, in favor of the coup, don't you? He's about to pay, too, for his trips to Waterloo. And then, there, then, from your imaginary republic, the fugitive from justice dictates to you, word by word, which then has to come here to explain. I mean, the imaginary republic, with an imaginary president. All very imaginary, except, of course, Catalan money; that's not imaginary, that's very real. Catalan Euros, Mr Torra. Because you take the money of all Catalans, who earn with their effort and with their work, and put it at the service of the independence cause. And he uses it to stain the good name of Spain around the world. And he uses it, too, to confront the Catalans among themselves. And people, Mr. Torra, are tired of financing your separatist campaign with the taxes you charge them. Catalonia is the autonomous community where the middle and working class pay the most expensive IRPF in the autonomous segment. The autonomous community with more own taxes. And, on top of that, with a very inefficient collection. Taxes, moreover, is that then they do not serve for us to have better social services. These taxes you collect do not revert to better social services to help people. No, no, you fry Catalans at taxes, because, of course, it takes a lot of money to pay your dues and to keep your chiringuitos where you then place your friends. For that, you use the money. Because, of course, you too come here to talk about repression and oppression. But for you and your friends to live well, Catalonia has had to borrow up to unsuspected limits. Virtually 80,000_million_euros, Mr Torra, which comes out at more than ten_million_euros per Catalan. Ten_mil_euros per Catalan, which is said soon, to pay their friends who are dedicated to talking bad about Spain abroad. That is, you, instead of dedicating yourself to talking bad about your country – of Spain, Mr.Totra, your country – instead of telling stories about the republic this imaginary that does not exist, that only exists in your head and in the head of the most radical, why does it not get to work? Why don't you start doing something to get back the five thousand companies you threw away with your happy process? Because when nationalism comes through the door, companies come out the window. You have been lying to all Catalans for sixteen months; sixteen months, which are becoming eternal to us, Mr. Torra. He lies to you when he promises you independence; he lies to you when you speak of solidarity with your Government. He's coming out here, talking about solidarity. But what lessons of solidarity will your Government give, when you allow one_of_each_four under sixteen years of age to be in poverty in Catalonia? That I do not say it, that does not say it Citizens, that says it the Idescat, that says it the Generalitat itself, Mr Torra. What lessons of solidarity will a government give that allows nearly 25_percent of women to be in poverty? What lessons? That, moreover, this female poverty has increased, being you president. I don't say it, it doesn't say it Citizens; it says it the Idescat, says the Generalitat. What lessons of solidarity is a government that devotes less resources to social services than the average of other self -governments? And surely, then, when he comes out to answer me, because I will come here with the story that Spain steals from us, etc.. But do you know who was stealing from us, Mr. Torra? The corrupt politicians, they stole from us, like the Pujol family. Really, is there a country where the Pujol family has no hidden money? Is there a country? I don't know, Atlantis, maybe, maybe they haven't found where to put the money. [[Greetings.]] Look, in 2018, Catalonia allocated only 6.8_per_cent of its budget to social services and social promotion, placing us in the eleventh place of seventeen autonomous communities; on the tail, Mr.Totra. And if we talk about the percentage of GDP that is destined for these purposes, Catalonia is the third. But the third for the tail, too, Mr. Torra, for the tail always. And how would your Government say that it treats persons with disabilities? Because according to the Cocarmi..., it has quantified in more than 23,000 euros per year the economic overeffort that these people have to make in order to be able to continue with their lives. I haven't heard you say any of this here. You say that independence would solve all these problems in Catalonia. I mean, Mr. Torra, you're not cheating on anyone. Which is that the problem is your government. The problem is you, who do not want or know how to manage an autonomous community. Open your eyes at once, now, Mr. Torra. Look, four years is what you have to expect, on average, a lot of Catalan dependents to get a place of residence. One-third of them are on dependency support waiting lists. But they're not coming. But of course, you don't care about this. Because, of course, the only waiting time you care about is the time you're going to have to wait until the next court summons arrives. Which, by the way, is going to be soon, because you know that we have already denounced you before the electoral board for recidivism. Because you believe that public buildings are, therefore, I do not know, the information panel of separatism. You already have that complaint again before the electoral board, so that you stop flooding the space that is everyone's with your separatist propaganda. [[Greetings.]] Look, if the time you spend threatening the state and preparing a new coup against democracy in Catalonia, you spend it on those who need it the most, we'd do a lot better. We'd be much better off in Catalonia. But you, meanwhile, call back to do it, call the CDRs to warm up the street, huh? , while the crisis of insecurity in Barcelona is increasing, for example, which I was talking about earlier. I mean, last week we were living another black week of insecurity, with three more murders going on to add to the tragic list we already have. Don't do you like Mrs. Colau. Don't deny the sad reality. Do not deny the fear that Barcelona's neighbours have, as a result of these events. Don't deny it. Really, don't do like Mr. Marlaska and Mr. Sánchez, hiding under the table, right? They close their eyes very hard, very strong, to see if when they open them again it's all solved. Don't do that. Take action, solve what's going on in Barcelona. Because with you we are losing the future, Mr. Torra. Do you know, for example, that violence among young people is on the rise, especially in those aspects of sexual and gender rights? The Attorney General's Office warns, in its 2018 report, that convictions for sexual offences between young people have increased in Catalonia by 58_per_cent, Mr. Torra. There has also been an increase in hate crimes against the LGBTI collective. Look, in the first seven months of what we've been doing since 2019, there's been an increase of 40_per_cent compared to last year. Do you know why? Because the social inaction of his Government paves the way for discrimination. Because where your government is not – and it is not because you have renounced real Catalonia – there flourishes the law of the jungle, Mr Torra. There are a majority of Catalans who can't take it anymore. They can no longer endure their abandonment of office, nor tolerate more inequality or discrimination. Because waiting lists, Mr. Torra, are a condemnation for all, independenceists and non-independenceists. And we told him, yeah. I already explained it to you in the previous Monographic Plenary, the Royal Catalonia Plenary. I don't know if you remember. It was that plenary that you tried to dilute so that we could not explain our proposals for the problems of the day-to-day of Catalonia, to explain proposals that are not of that imaginary republic in which you live, but are of the real Catalonia. But you have not paid no heed to those proposals that we have made to you. You have continued to be impassive at this reality that you can no longer hide under the carpet, no matter how much you strive to divert attention to the monotheme of the process. Because there is no carpet that covers your management or banner that covers your shame, Mr. Torra. But of course, how are you going to stand by the waiting lists in health? What else does that give you? You're right, aren't you? I mean, there's 175,000 people waiting to operate. But no; no, because you are pending other things. You are awaiting, for example, to testify before the courts for disobedience; of that you are. Land at once, Mr. Torra. Look, while you've come here, to present yourself as a martyr, there are almost half a million Catalans waiting for a specialized visit. A list that has increased since you are president: there are 46,500 more Catalans, waiting, since you are president. I mean, there's no negative statistics that you don't get over, Mr. Torra; you're going to take that honor. Do you believe that the 155,000 Catalans who are distressed, waiting for a diagnostic test to know what is happening to them, deserve a president who is so alien to the reality of Catalonia? Do you think they deserve it? And the problem, of course, the problem is that you have nothing to offer to these Catalans. Bits, isn't it? - Bits and pieces. If you've already said it, that these were minor issues, that this didn't matter. Because you have not come here to manage an autonomous community, you have come here to separate Catalonia from the rest of Spain. And if on the way we have to leave the problems of Catalans in the gutter, they are left; nothing happens, is it, Mr Torra? But it's just, I know, there's something you should say to him even your own. As long as there are patients in Tortosa waiting 142_days for an appointment with the dermatologist, you can't spend all day talking about the process. And even less, considering that, for this same test, it turns out that a patient living in Vic only takes 16_days, or a patient going to Hebron Valley, 29_days. That is, you are creating territorial inequalities, depending on where the Catalan lives. Don't you see it? Don't you see? Really, you're dating the neurologist – a few days ago, which was Alzheimer's Day. Well, look, in the Trueta you have to wait 325_days. It's almost a year, Mr. Torra! What a scandal it is! And even more so if we compare what is to be expected elsewhere. For example, at the Hospital del Mar, 45_days. In Hebron Valley, 54, huh? In the Trueta, 325. Are you going to do something about it? Because we've been warning about waiting lists for a long time. Of course, since the doctor's appointment comes just like the republic, we'd better sit down. I really... we present you here with a law to reduce waiting lists, Mr. Torra. And you ordered her to go down. You come up to this rostrum and talk about dialogue, of listening, you've told us before. But you didn't want to listen to professionals or social sector representatives to reduce waiting lists. So, please, I beg you not to come out again to this rostrum with good words about social rights, because it has been a long time since you've had your face dropped. You do not respect the social rights or, of course, the constitutional rights of Catalans – of course not. Let us talk, for example, about education. You, who so much likes to talk and makes comparisons with the rest of Spain, why doesn't it explain why 41_per_cent of the students who study in barracks do it here in Catalonia? The 41_per_cent of students from all over Spain who study in barracks are Catalan, Mr. Torra. Will you explain to us what shock plan you have to fix this? Are you going to explain it to us? Because, of course, the Education Advisor, in April, committed himself to an infrastructure plan. That was April. Do you know what reality is? That in September there were children who couldn't start classes because they didn't even have the barracks. They've gone a little further! One step further! What's wrong, what hasn't given them time? No, of course, because in September, as the families are preparing to return to school, you are preparing the return to the mantra, the return to the threat, the return to the hot autumn. That's what you guys do in September. Look, this September, about twenty thousand students started school in a situation that no father or mother would want for their children: studying in barracks. Out there, you have over a thousand sheds. And some of them have been twenty years. I mean, this is a structural problem in our autonomous community. That is a figure that has been maintained over the past thirty years, regardless of demographics and migratory movements. It's a structural problem, Mr. Torra. Do something – do something. Because you, this problem, also knew it, because I also came here and explained it to you. And I also told them that, with the one-year budget for TV3, all the barracks would be eliminated. But you have done absolutely nothing. Of that, they haven't had time; of that, no. Now, to indoctrinate children in class... ; of that, yes. To subsidize Platform per la Llengua so that they can enter the courtyards of schools to see in which language the children speak, of that they have had time – of that, yes; of that they have had time. [[Greetings.]] No, no, for your things you find time and money where you need it. Like, for example, to keep your chiringuitos, your separatist chiringuitos, like, for example, the Diplomat, huh? Yes, yes... what's so funny about you, Mr. Pujol, what's the money spent on all Catalans, what's the money spent on all Catalans? For look, for example, at the Diplomat, one of the great gears they used to give their blow; for that, yes, time and money. The lords of the Socialist Party, the truth, their partners of the Barcelona Diputation, participating in this infamous chiringuito that is spent the money of all Catalans to speak ill of Spain. That I do not say it, that does not say it Citizens ; that says it a report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Government of the Socialist Party. What are you doing participating in the Diplomat? What do you do, who are the perfect accomplices of nationalism? You always find a way out to help Mr Torra and the separatist government: when it's not about pardons, it turns out you're talking about supporting budgets, and when you're not, you're also offering to make referendums in ten years' time. Don't you? Mr. Iceta. You always go out to Mr. Torra's rescue. But, well, I also recognize that it is not something that surprises us, we already expect anything from the Socialist Party. Because, you know what? The first thing Mr Sánchez did when he arrived in Moncloa was to open the tap to separatism so that they would continue to spend the money of all Catalans on these political chiringuitos, these separatist chiringuitos who are dedicated to talking badly about Catalonia and the whole of Spain. It should embarrass them to act like the accomplices of separatism. Look, I used to tell you, Mr. Torra, that you're crystal clear, that you don't cheat on anyone; well, yes, maybe a little bit to Mr. Sánchez, that I already think you're being fooled, but we've already seen those vis a vis in Pedralbes, as you were walking through the Moncloa... No, no, if the saying already says it: there's no blinder than the one who doesn't want to see. But in this case, Mr. Sánchez, I think rather... there is no more blind than the one who is blinded by power, which is what happens to Mr. Sánchez. Look, all of Spain, except Mr. Sánchez, knows you're not here to manage an autonomous community; you don't need to remind us. The question is, why are you here? To tell us how an autonomous community is not managed? Because that's what he does every day to teach us. You have not come here today to contrast proposals, you have not come here today to push reforms, the reforms that Catalonia needs. You've come here today to make propaganda. You have come here today to release the speech, word for word, that Mr Puigdemont, the fugitive from justice, dictated to you the other day in Waterloo. You have come to turn the general policy debate into a fictional policy debate. Because in the fiction in which you live, that imaginary republic in which the fugitive is still president, half the Catalans do not even exist, Mr Torra. Do you see us? Do you see my companions? Do you see them, Mr. Torra? Do you see me here or do you hear a voice off? I'm telling you because behind me there are 1_million Catalans who are tired of you ignoring them and scorning them every day– every day– [[applause]] And that's why we're going to remain your voice, here and where you need it, Mr. Torra. Catalans who don't deserve a president like you. And as I say, we will not allow you to continue to silence and invisibly all those Catalans. Because when his commands go out and rub the floor that we tread lightly, they don't do it to insult us...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.8.0	Mrs. Roldán, Mrs. Roldán, just made a statement... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You don't have the word. I think he's crossed all the boundaries... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I stop time – I stop time. Mrs. Roldán, you just made an expression that you know perfectly well that it is an accusation that exceeds all the limits of the code of conduct and the Rules; therefore, I ask you to withdraw that expression. I'm asking her to take it off. If you don't want to remove her, I'll have to call her to order, Mrs. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.9.0	Well, as always, shutting up the opposition or trying to shut up the opposition. Of course. [[applause]] What a little...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.10.0	Mrs. Roldán...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.11.0	...they like to hear the truths.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.12.0	Mrs. Roldán...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.13.0	If you'll excuse me, I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.14.0	I didn't give her the chance. I think it's opportune for me to withdraw the expression; otherwise, I'll have to call it to order, Mrs. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.15.0	If you can tell me exactly what it seems to you that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.16.0	You have made reference to a certain expression in relation to a command and leadership of some commands, which passes all the limits of the Rules and of which we have agreed, Mrs. Roldán. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please... I have offered you the opportunity to withdraw the expression; if not, you will have to call it to order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.17.0	May I continue, Mr. Torrent, with the speech?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.18.0	So the cry to order, senyora Roldán. First time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.19.0	Perfect. Nothing new – nothing new. The truth, which we are already used to: when you do not like the truth that is told to you, then, you act with these practices, the truth. Well, look, when they come out – how do I say it, Mr. Torrent? – those CDRs..., when the CDRs come out to wash the floor that we tread lightly, they do not do so to insult us; they do so to threaten the Catalan constitutionalists, to deepen the fear, isolation and feeling of unprotectiveness that citizens suffer on foot. Do you imagine how a constitutionalist Catalan feels, for example, here in Barcelona when you think who has to defend your rights? Mrs. Colau? Mr. Torra? Mr. Sanchez? Do you have any idea how helpless those Catalans feel? Set yourself, in your imaginary republic say you live with repression. Do you know how many Catalans live because of their totalitarian practices? Look, the one who thinks of telling the truths to his face, you call him ‘a facha or cut off the micro; the one who labels your shops in Spanish, you fine him; the public servant who denies the republic, you send him out. Repression, the one you exercise, Mr. Torra. That's the repression we live in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] But do you know what I'm telling you, Mr. Torra? They won't be able to shut us up. All those Catalans we go out on the street in October 2017 won't be able to shut us up, because, even if you think we're crazy beasts, we're very proud to be Catalans and Spanish and they're not going to make us feel anything else. They won't be able to shut us up, Mr. Torra. And we stop them then and we'll stop them again now. [[Greetings.]] « Repression, you speak of repression; that is, those who go in and spy on children in the courtyards of schools speak of repression. No, a president like you, then, obviously had to surround himself with advisers like these: a counselor who allows him to go into the courtyards of schools... Will he resign now, by the way, Mr Bargalló? It is that even the Government of Colau has recognized that they entered three schools in Barcelona. A councillor, for example, who does not admit Spanish in her press conferences, because she says that it is that Spanish secretes; a councillor, for example, like Mr. Buch, who wants to ban demonstrations or who turns out that he has to identify those who put the anthem of Spain. What is wrong with the anthem of Spain? What's the matter, giving them hives or something? What's the matter, that you can't put the anthem of Spain in Spain, Mr. Torra? What's wrong with the anthem? I mean, you cut roads, you burn tires, you flood it all with separatist propaganda, huh? , the commands, and it turns out that in your imaginary republic this is freedom of expression; but putting the anthem of Spain, therefore, is a very serious, very serious, very serious offense and you send the Mossos to identify, to punish them. What message do you intend to send to your citizens? What does Catalan and Spanish feel have consequences? Is that it, Mr. Torra? Is that what you want? Tell me about it. This is totalitarian, Mr. Torra. You're not democrats. Do you know why? Because democrats don't give coups d'état, Mr Torra; that's not what democrats do. Look, the Democrats respect the rule of law, but you threaten to jump over the law. Democrats protect citizens' freedoms, and you are a public danger to Catalans. And the Democrats, Mr. Torra, always...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.20.0	Mrs. Roldán, Mrs. Roldán...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.21.0	...they always condemn violence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.22.0	Mrs. Roldán, there are expressions I will not allow in any way. I have always allowed the debate and I am convinced that you can do your parliamentary action without having to go into the second language and second disqualifications that Parliament does not deserve. I insist, you do not use certain expressions, Mrs. Roldán, because they exceed all the limits we have set for ourselves. And you know perfectly well that I've always been, from this point of view, very lax and I've always let them talk, but there are expressions that I won't allow in any way. In any case, Mrs. Roldán, I'll call you back to order a second time. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Carrizosa, you have the word your partner, Mrs. Roldán, and when Mrs. Roldán finishes, I'll pass you the word if you ask me that. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] There's the word... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I've got the word Mrs. Roldán. Mrs. Roldán, when you're ready.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.23.0	It sets me on, but don't let me know either.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.24.0	No, no, I've already told you I can talk, Mrs. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.25.0	No, no, everything's perfect. Actually, do you know what's going on, Mr. Torrent? That I here had to listen as a Member of this bench called me inhumane, and you did not take away the time of the word; to me, yes. [[applause]] – to me, yes. "Inhuman, yes. Look, Mr. Torra, on Monday, we all dawned with the news of a Civil Guard operation in which nine members of radical separatist commandos accused of rebellion, possession of explosives and terrorism were arrested. And we don't say it as Citizens, I don't say it; it's said by the Public Prosecutor's Office of the National Court. They had plans and objectives to pay attention to. And they could be... [[Widow's remorse.]] You're very funny about this, aren't you? Of course...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.26.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.27.0	Look, they had plans and targets to attack and could be preparing attacks by October. Faced with this discovery, which of course terrifies and worries many Catalans, do you know what a normal president would do? A normal president would go out to condemn the violence; a normal president would go out to thank the work of the State Security Forces and Bodies; a normal president would go out to offer his help to clarify the facts. But do you know what he did? You have publicly come out to defend these people who may end up convicted of terrorism. But, of course, how are you not going to support them, if you take out the breast that your family and friends are part of these CDRs, if you freeze them and encourage them? You..., when it goes well to the CDRs, you like, you are happy, you enjoy. But do you know who's wrong when the CDRs are successful? The Catalans. When the CDRs succeed and manage to cut a road, Catalans cannot get to their place of work, they cannot get to their appointment with the doctor. When these CDRs cut a train track, there are a lot of people who don't get to their college classes, for example. But this doesn't matter to you, you jealous them, you cheer them up. Do you realize the seriousness of all this, that we are talking about explosives, that we are talking about a list of objectives, of sketches to look at, that we are talking about terrorism? Mr. Torra, do you realize gravity? You're playing with fire, and the problem is they're gonna end up burning all the Catalans. Mr. Torra, did you see last Monday's images as these CDRs besieged and harassed the Civil Guard? What's the matter, you didn't see him? Did you not listen to those songs, "pim-pam-pum, which I did not have one, which are typical of ETA members? Didn't you hear these songs the other day? If you did not listen to them, you can talk to Mrs Borràs or Mrs Artadi, who were there protesting against the Civil Guard and supporting people [[applause]] They may end up convicted of terrorism. Mr. Torra, when you put the red carpet on Otegi to spread your hate message on TV3, that has consequences; when you walk on the Diada to Otegi; when you hug with Alvaro Bultó's killer; when you take pictures with Terra Lliure's founder, that has consequences. What message do you think you're sending to the citizenry with all this? Of course, with this background, it's normal that when people are arrested for alleged terrorism, you don't go out and condemn the facts. What do I say to condemn? It's just that you go out and defend them. You, when you have to protect the Catalans, choose the separatist command. You, when you have to abide by the sentences, choose the separatist command. You, when you have to condemn violence, choose separatist command. If you have told us yourself, you have not come here to rule an autonomous community. The question is, what have you come here to do? What is it, the President of the Generalitat or the leader of the CoRs? What is it, Mr. Torra? Tell you what when I get out here. You come here and you've talked about what peaceful secession, of the smile revolution. He's been talking about smiles here. What role does rubber 2 play in all this peaceful secession? What is it, to make fireworks when they proclaim the republic again? What is the smile: that of Otegi, that of the founder of Terra Lliure, that of the murderer of Bultó? What smile, Mr. Torra? Stop trivializing the evil, stop whitening the terrorists, stop squeezing the CDRs against the Catalan constitutionalists, Mr Torra. I already appeal to the independence parties, is there no one there, no longer saying that he has a minimum of responsibility, but a minimum of common sense? Is there no one there who is going to put a little brake on this madness that has become the process? Or do we have to regret a misfortune, Mr. Torra, in Catalonia? What has to happen? You, who even appealed to the Slovenian track, what has to happen in Catalonia, Mr. Torra? You've behaved like an arsonist. What were you thinking? When you were calling the CDRs to tighten up, what were you thinking? When you told us a few days ago that you had come here to risk it, what did you mean? What risk? If the Catalans are taking the risk, Mr. Torra. You have played with fire, and I insist that we can burn everyone, that you are irresponsible. You've managed to overcome your predecessor. We're seeing things here that we didn't even see with Puigdemont, Mr. Torra. And you know it. You know the times we've already told you... it's not a hitch, huh? The thing about getting over Puigdemont. I'm telling you because it's funny. Look, I don't know how many times we told him that the CDRs were going to get out of hand, that there would come a time when they couldn't control them. And, look, violence is not adjectible: there is no good violence and bad violence. No, all violence is bad and all violence is unjustifiable. But it's just that you're not minimizing it; no, no, no, it's that you when the violent are yours, you defend them. But don't you see the gravity of all this, Mr. Torra? Can't you see you've opened Pandora's box? I have to ask you here to back off, to apologize, to stop all this. Why do you know what happens when constitutionalists are stigmatized? Do you know what happens when you invite terrorists to TV3? Do you know what happens when you turn constitutionalists into enemies to beat and those convicted of terrorism into heroes? Do you know what's going on, Mr. Torra? Is there anything that reminds you of these songs of 'pim-pam-pum', which are not even one that we heard the other day in Catalonia? Does the harassment and siege of the Civil Guard remind you of anything? Do you hear anything from politicians who pry at violent people and encourage them to point out the Civil Guard and other leaders of other political parties? Does this sound like anything to you, Mr. Torra? Mr. Torra, do you know what this is? Do you know what this is? This photograph is the vivid image of terror. This is the ETA attack at the headquarters of the Vic Civil Guard in Catalonia. Ten people died, Mr. Torra. Today my colleagues have been in Vic. Do you know what for? So we don't forget. So we can learn from the past. Because the Civil Guard, Mr. Torra, has already been pointed out in our country by the totalitarians. Because in this country we have already seen too much blood spilled. Because in this country we have already seen where hatred and radical ideology can get – we have already seen it. Because in this country, Mr Torra, too many political assassinations have already been justified. And this – and this – cannot happen again. So I this picture, Mr. Torra, wanted to show it to you and I'm going to give it to you too. To see her, if you haven't seen her. To remind you, if you've forgotten. And to keep it in mind. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So that you keep it in mind every time you go through your head again calling to tighten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.28.0	Please, I'll call to order. Member [[Funnel veils]] For God's sake. It's not normal to put yourself up to this in the House, Congressman. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The cry to order and if it continues here I will have to call to order again. It's not normal to make these criticisms in the chamber, Congressman, I insist. Go on, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.29.0	Mr. Torra, I want to give you this image so you never forget how far hatred and fracture can go. You have here today the opportunity to go out and condemn these facts in front of all Catalans, and to ask your commands to stop. And to tell them that they have gone too far...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.30.0	Congresswoman, I need you to insist again...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.31.0	...because next time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.32.0	Member of the Commission — Member of the Do I have to insist again that if I have to call him back to order... do you know what the consequence is? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] In relation to... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He just made use of the same expression for which I first called his attention, and I told him that if I followed him, I would have to call him to order. Now I warn him that a third cry to the order knows what it involves, that it's a withdrawal from the word. Go on, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.33.0	I really... is it that, Mr. Torrent, can you explicitly explain to me what the concept is that I can't say in this rostrum? What's the matter?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.34.0	You know perfectly well, Mrs. Roldán, I warned you the first time. He just served the same expression the first time I called him to order. So, I told him if he was going to do that, I'd have to call him back to order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.35.0	The expression what is it? , "Commands, Mr Torrent? [[Pause.]] Yeah? Is that it? [[Pause.]] I mean, people who organize themselves...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.36.0	Congresswoman, you don't have the word. ( The President withdrew the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continued to speak for a few moments. Greetings. Congresswoman, you know exactly what expression is. I warned him for the first time with regard to this expression, he has now repeated it; the warning that a third time, according to the Rules, article 238, the consequence is the withdrawal of the word for which the session is left. Anyway, keep going, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.37.0	Yes, I've got a minute left and I'd like to be able to finish the intervention, but I insist: then I've got a list of the words that we can say and that we can't say in this Faristol, and see if you have the same measuring rod. Well, Mr. Torra, simply: I hope that in your turn of reply, as I was saying and as I was asking you to, get out here, condemn these facts – that's what you would have to do as President of the Generalitat – put an end to all this madness, because it's going to end badly and, perhaps, if you don't, the next time we see each other's faces will be too late. [[Greetings. Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.38.0	Why ask me the word, Congressman?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.39.0	As you can imagine, on a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.40.0	If you don't tell me, I can't imagine. In any case, say: to what article do you want to make reference?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.41.0	Compliance with the Rules of Procedure of Rule 90.1, since 233.1 has been unduly implicated, with one speaker speaking. Mr Torrent, or President Torrent, just limit the word to the opposition. You have identified two words as inconvenient: one, commando, and the other when the President of the Generalitat has been told. [[remorse of the voice]] That's a...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.42.0	Quiet. Shut up, everybody.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.43.0	...that's a public danger. Then, in the state that we have today the Catalan policy, in which the President of the Generalitat..., are arrested some people, accused – in principle, allegedly – of terrorism, rebellion and possession of explosives, and is supported by that arrest by the President of the Generalitat and attacks judges, prosecutors and law enforcement, I think it can be qualified...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.44.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.45.0	... with a lot of public danger property to the president of the Generalitat [[applause]] in a Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.46.0	Deputy, you don't have the word anymore. [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]] This... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Deputy, deputy... [[Don't worry, I'll give you some applause.]] Deputy, you don't have the word anymore. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Deputy, I'm going to have to call him to order. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Deputy, I'm going to have to call him to order. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You don't have the word – you don't have the word. Deputy, the cry to order for the first time. And if he goes on that way, I'll have to call him in order more often. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You don't have the word. You said... you asked for a point of order. This is obviously not a matter of order or regulation. You've already expressed what your sense of respect was for how I interpret the... [[Funnel veils]] – MP, you don't have the word – as I interpret the Regulation, which is me who I correspond to interpret the Regulation. There are expressions – and you know it perfectly well – that have exceeded the regulatory limits [[remorse of the voice]] And the limits of... it can't be said that the President of the Generality leads a command, deputy. You know that perfectly well. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That's what he said – that's what he said, Congressman. I, if not, check... And that's why I've asked her twice in order, the deputy, and so she'll be in the record and you can prove it. Congressman, you don't have the word and expressions of this type can't stand for institutional respect and respect for all of us, which is ultimately respect for all of the country's citizens. [[Greetings.]] You don't have the word, Congressman. Keep going. He then has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Miquel Iceta. When you want, Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.47.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President of the Generality, I speak to you as the president of my group, of the Socialist Group and Units for Progress, and, therefore, as the person who compromises with the country; I say this because you do not make the mistake of thinking that only those who think like him are compromised with the country. And this is a parliamentary debate of the highest importance: it is about the general political orientation of the government. And let me tell you that the least we can say is that, from our point of view, the government does not have a general political orientation; that's why we talked about divided government, disoriented government, failed government. You said: "Oh! They have problems in Spain, they have no government, they do not have a majority... Miri, there is a problem in Spain: the Government does not have a majority, there has been no investiture and elections are called. Now, I seem to be thicker with the majority and not knowing what to do with it, and it seems to me that this is the case with the Government of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] But I would like to justify a little more of these qualifications, because it is obvious that they are not, from our point of view, neither arbitrary nor capricious. Disoriented: man, we believe the government is not on condition to tell where it wants to go or how it wants to get there. The same government has indicated, weeks ago, that its main function at these times is to vertebrate a response to the feeling. But until now we still don't know her. Nor did his intervention contribute in this sense. You, in your intervention at the Catalan University of Estiu, said: "In your moment I will already make the political proposal that I am approaching. He didn't do it today. It is true that the sentence has not yet returned and, therefore, there is still time. Why do we say "Government divides"? Because there is a division between the two governing partners, who are competing for hegemony in the self-independence movement. Why do we say she's failing? Home, if one of the governing partners, day and day too, is already talking about the need to make another government, a government that seems to me to call it a sovereignist concentration, it is obvious that they consider that what is not enough or does not work very well. Now, if that were just an opinion of an opposition group or the joint opposition groups, if that were the case, you could say perfectly: "It is an element of criticism. I therefore appeal to him at the latest barometer of the Generality's Center of Study of Opinion – July; it was already quite explicit –: 55,8_percent of Catalans disapproves of the management of their government. Certainly, it's a growing disapproval, because March was 48,4_per_cent. Those who approved managed it in March were 48, and now it's only 40.5_per_cent. Therefore, there has been an obvious deterioration in the image of government management. And we believe that precisely this disorientation, this division, this weakness in management are the ones that explain this value. The debate on real Catalonia, indeed, exposed many of the shortcomings and errors that the Government has since our point of view. And, to give just one example, their inability to approve the government and bring the assumptions for 2017 to Parliament show how far the government is not up. And we believe..., and we respect but above all with concern: you don't know where you're going at these times. And you – and Mrs. Lorena Roldán said before, and quite rightly – speak very clearly, and therefore we cannot say that we do not understand it. When you spoke before the Catalan University of Estiu, on the 20th of August, you indicated a course. First, we don't know if this is the direction of his government. Second: we don't share it. Thirdly, if this were the direction assigned to the government, it would be totally detrimental to the country. I left behind some of the elements of that speech, which I think are defined by their political position. You did a self-criticism exercise that honors him when he said: "We missed what we had done great: initiative and project. President, frankly, after listening to him this morning, we believe that they follow without initiative and without project, not to say that this is the government that has lost the most votes since the year 1980 and that has a collection of more incomplete parliamentary resolutions. In his intervention he said another thing that has been said here, but I say it, it seems to me, in a sense a different skin. You said: "I am not president to manage an autonomy. You seem to me to be expressing a wish. You were expressing that you would probably like to be president of the Catalan Republic. But forgive me, President: we need a President of the Government of Catalonia. [[Some applause.]] And we don't have that. Maybe that's one of the reasons they're explaining, from our point of view, this fracture. You have to manage 40,000_million euros of budget, 250,000 public workers, 18,000 of whom are the Mosso d'Esquadra; indeed, depending on what the Constitution and the State and our laws designate. And if you, for whatever reason they are – that they can be legitimate and, even so, that some people can share – you don't see the color of doing this because what you would like to do is something else, so I think you have a political obligation to move away from your responsibility. And you can say – there's all the right – "No, it's that I want something else. But then let me tell you: to get to this other thing you will have to respect the instruments and the majorities needed to do so. There's no harm in it. Therefore, we believe that, under the conditions you yourself describe, you cannot do your job well. He wants to make another one that isn't in his grasp right now. You said, in this intervention in Prada de Conflent, "We only have democratic and peaceful confrontation in defence of freedom, civil and political rights and the right to self-determination. He was also talking to us today about the right of self-determination and unjust laws. We disagree with his conception radically; not only because we do not believe in a confrontation with the rest of Spain, which would be reasonably enough, but above all because we do not want a confrontation between the citizens of Catalonia. And here's where it looks like we'd be if we moved on to this line of confrontation. Our priority is to try to find an agreement between Catalans, we have said it many times. Because only from a broad agreement between Catalans can we then have enough strength to reach a solid agreement with the rest of the Spaniards. And I think we're very wrong if we're looking for an external conflict without solving our internal debate first. And let me refer again to the later barometer of the Generality's Study Centre of Opinion – it's July of Encany –: a 7.8_percent of Catalans believe that Catalonia should be a region of Spain; a 27_percent believe that it should be an autonomous community; a 24 and a half percent believe that Catalonia should be a state in a federal Spain; a 34.5_percent believe that Catalonia should be an independent state; 4.6 doesn't know, and 1.6 doesn't answer. Also significant are the answers to the binary question about independence: while a 44_per_cent would want Catalonia to be an independent state, a 48,3_per_cent would say it would not want it. And the most relevant data, from my point of view, from this study: only a 9,1_percent of Catalans defend a unilateral policy on the part of the Government of Catalonia. President, the confrontation, in the words that you seem to pose it, only has the support of the 9.1_per_cent of Catalans, this" we will advance what passes, without looking back, without anything stopping us. And the premise that you used to make this statement we also want to discuss. Because you said to Prada: "Independent movement must be determined to scrupulously compliment human rights, over unjust laws. You proposed to do so with a title: disobeying unjust laws, obeying one's own sovereignty. "We can no longer continue to approve Parliament's resolutions on the right of self-determination or any other right if the representatives of Catalans in Parliament are not able to apply these resolutions to any unjust law. Well, who decides a law is unfair? You? Jo? The government? A majority of the Parliament? The men from the chamber? The statutory guarantee board? Or the Constitutional Court? Who decides a law is unfair? Who has the authority to make a decision on these characteristics? I would like to recall a recent decision of the European Court of Human Rights, which, before an appeal brought by Carme Forcadell and seventy-five other Members, said that the majority of the Catalan Parliament has no right to disobey the Constitution or to disobey the judgements of the Constitutional Court. Resolution, I repeat, of the European Court of Human Rights. Allow me to overdo it. But, of course, at the expense of other excesses, it's just mosquito bites. [[Greetings.]] Let's imagine we're bringing this idea to the extreme. If a law doesn't please me, I already have the excuse not to complete it. It can't be. Imagine that the restaurateurs say that the law regulating the terraces is not fair and, therefore, they skip it, or some driver considers that the Traffic Code is not just and, therefore, falls apart. We are from an old school; there are no others, but he wanted to quote an Italian jurist, Piero Calamandrei, who was an anti-fessist, from the Italian Constitution of 48, who says in a very strong way: "Legality is a condition of freedom. Without the right there can be no political freedom. We believe that this statement is a strong one. And, President, I say this from a position that is ours: illegality and disobedience or they don't carry it or worse, they carry us, they will bring us back to disaster. And that's why we're going to do it again. Because I do not give up my ideals, and therefore I will continue to try to make them come true, but I cannot share it if we do this again and do the things that brought us to disaster. And allow me, too, you have used at times an expression, which is tight, which is also a legitimate, well Catalan, well normal expression. But what if someone interprets it in a very wrong way? If anyone, does this "press your press" serve to justify an unwarranted thing? And, therefore, we believe that at all times we can clearly separate what is the legitimate expression from a project from an illegitimate expression. And I want to thank him that you said again today, as I myself said when he skipped this news on a radio, it seems to me that it was said: "The independence movement has always been a peaceful and democratic movement and, therefore, the first interested one to detach himself absolutely from any deviation from this line of action. And that doesn't mean or distort the presumption of innocence. And to be clear, the presumption of innocence is not distorted by police or judicial action. It would be as much to say that justice or security forces can only act when a crime has been committed. And it's not really like that. It's also worth knowing who's doing what. You have sent a letter to the President of the Government of Spain to warn about the police action that the judiciary has instituted, in a state of law, with separation of powers, according to the finding that Spain is one of the twenty full democracies according to the international standards of The Economist, Freedom House, etc. Listen, we're here. I'll be right back, President. We do not want confrontation; a confrontation that would be, in the first place – and I repeat it and I will not be tired – a confrontation between Catalans. Our group is well aware that the Supreme Court's judgment can be controversial, as has the same court and the long pre-trial detention. Perhaps there will be many Catalans and Catalans who do not share the content of the feeling, and we respect their opinion and their feelings, but we say that in democracy the feelings may be object of criticism but not of disobedience. And if people can't disobey a sentence, they can still less disobey the institutions, which arise from the law and have as their first obligation to complete it and make it complete. We've already warned in the past of the risk of placing institutions out of the law and we'll do it again. We do not want to cry out bad weather or that our words can be interpreted as a threat. Now, what we're saying is, if they do what they did again, we're going back to a situation that we all said wasn't the desirable one. And, therefore, without this implying that no one should give up their ideas, their longings, their political objectives, we do things in such a way that the risks of placing us out of legality are never again produced. You said to Prada: "We cannot accept that a government chosen for the majority of our country's citizens is condemned for doing what they promised in the elections. I quote literally. Miri, president, no one is sentenced to fulfill his promises, but, in any case, if a court considers that he has breached the law. By the way, you added a sentence that I'm still grinning a little bit. The most. You said: "And I think that as I cannot accept it, I cannot accept the majority of the people of Catalonia. Count, confusing the part with everything is risky, but confusing me with most of it too. We'll see about that. [[Greetings.]] And in any case, we'll see the feeling when it's produced. I always... I don't know if we could declare a 20-and-four-hour moratorium so no one would think until they could read it. But, Fi, I don't know if we'd get out of it. One of the criticisms that we address to his political speech and his approach is that he does not address the country's conjunct. You just think of one part, maybe very large, very respectable, but it's not the majority, it's not half. In fact, you in your speeches, when you speak of unity, you refer to the independence unit. I quote Prada: "As far as the families of independence are concerned, we agree to unblock the situation, to establish this democratic break-up agenda and to give stability to the government and the majority of Parliament so that we can face this tram to make the republic come true. He said: "In this sense, and as the CUP asks, we agree that we need to have a presumption that the motor of the republic change is. Finish the date. President, before the summer, on behalf of my group I made him an offer: if they want to talk about assumptions, let's talk about it. If this is our answer, we cannot enter this dynamic; by our own consistency, too, for its own. Because you, when you think about the country and the political process you have in mind, think logically about the CUP. Logically. You're consistent. Now, so are we. And, therefore, we cannot participate in or accompany a political process that we do not share. Now, in any case, I call on you to do your job, not as in the previous exercise: approve a project, the government, and bring it to Parliament. A dialog space was opened, called for you at the instigations of this Parliament and at the request of our group. We have identified six priorities: ensuring coexistence, pluralism in public space and the neutrality of institutions; ensuring respect for legality and the current institutional framework until there is the necessary consensus to reform it through established mechanisms and majorities; unlocking institutions, avoiding erosion by creating parallel bodies and referring to consensus – from institutional unlocking you and us also, and we are willing to work there –; four, prioritizing economic development equal opportunities and fighting the poor, inequality and social exclusion; and five, opening debate on how best to strengthen self-government and improving finance; and, addressing governance in depth. We believe that these six great objectives remain perfectly in force. And if that's why, everyone or something, you're counting on us. Now, if it's for confrontation or self-determination, no. Certainly, we see a renewed enthusiasm for the right to self-determination, which from our point of view does not connect with the skepticism with which the Council Counsellor for the National Transition addressed the issue. You remember, the council split reports. Reading many of them, he said, "Rights and principles – the democratic principle, self-determination and protection of minorities – which are gathered in legal instruments and in case law, are more like values and principles than not as rights in a narrow sense. The Council said: "Neither in the European sphere nor in the international sphere are there procedures that allow for the channelling of hypothetical requests based on these principles. The Generalitat would find legitimization problems in order to make legal applications. I have already sought an appointment that is neither of Piero Calamandrei nor of a member of the Socialist Group nor of a conspicuous constitutionalist, but of the Council Counsellor for the National Transition. I'm saying, because sometimes they generate expectations that require great frustration. And, therefore, we do not share the project that you expressed and what today was also on the table in your intervention. But ultimately what we're dealing with is assessing the concrete management of his government, which has been the execution of this government. And, listen, here are many things said, many very correct, many more said. You said: "If you want to read back what I told you in the debate about the problems of real Catalonia. I could say the same thing again and we'd get away with it. But, look, we're worried about growing social inequalities. And, President, inequality is growing in this period. There is an index, that of European social progress, which says that Catalonia is in position 163_on_272 regions, and, in change, an index of European wealth places us at 68. We see a very big shift. That time has only increased these inequalities. Catalans. I'm not referring to others. Why? Home, you said it yourself: "Who is our goal? He says: "As soon as we approve some assumptions we will try to reverse the details and return to the level of public spending we had. Well, then we'll have a plane, they'll tell us. And they'll explain to us why they didn't submit assumptions for 2017. This presuppositional extension—actually, here you are right—is nothing more than to stifle the situation. But, listen'm, and you say many times: "No, it is that Spain does not give us enough resources, Spain deceives us, Spain... Listen'm, you must deceive exactly the same the Valencian Community, to say something. In change, they make more public investment effort than we do. No, no, that's the question. Why does it turn out that, on equal terms, Valencia has decided to make more use of resources in education, sanitation and social services than we have? Because if we were only the only ones in the world who suffer from difficulties and economic restrictions, we couldn't give a good answer to that. While the rest of autonomous communities invest in health, education and social services 60 percent of their assumptions, Catalonia is 54. Listen, that's the problem. And, therefore, what we ask of them is that they act as an autonomous community government, while there is no other thing, and they do it well, in the best way possible. There was talk of waiting lists, there was talk of public education. Miri, just a sip. In 2010 we had a non-university public expenditure of almost 5,300_million euros; at these times the expenditure is not up to 5,000, but we have 67,000 more students, more educational needs and greater complexity in the classrooms. So... there's been talk of barracks, too, not to say. Male violence. Es is talking about a Catalan pact. All right. Now, the resources that we are now allocating are the proceeds of the state pact, not one more euro. I'm going back to saying things that came out in the July debate. They haven't done the Children's Law Deployment and we're still here. It was also said: there was an obvious weakness in the management of the guaranteed income of citizens. They have not devoted enough resources to the care of dependent people. With occupation and professional qualification we are missing. We have not been able to set aside the professional accreditation that we had undertaken with the country. And there have been many accidents at work, which represent, among other things, a less intense dedication than would be the case for the labour inspectorate, over which the Generality has powers. We could talk about housing policy. You're talking about decrees. Clearly, one that they had to withdraw, and the other, that we'll see what happens. Therefore, with the skills and resources that you have in your hands you are not doing enough to make the country better than we all want. From our point of view, Catalonia does not have the government that deserves and Catalonia needs a good government. You talked about culture. Those days surely had occasion to read in the newspapers the concern of the cultural sectors about presuppositional deficiencies. So it's not just a criticism that one group or another can make at a certain time, but the feeling of a sector that, it's true, has suffered the details that all... but every time, let's say it, the neck that I'm having and says the things as you say them. We want to fight more against inequalities and also against imbalances. You have said it many times: "We must think of the country's conjunction. And probably inequalities have various territorial implications. Before he spoke of salvation, of the difference of the waiting lists between some areas, but we could talk almost of any public service. With which there are commarques that are passing me frankly badly. And, therefore, we must take a look at the more dynamic and the more populated, but also at those who are at risk of depopulation. President, we wanted to focus our intervention on two major priorities that I will state. They can pose a lot and, therefore... but we want to focus on two that seem to us... one, in an opportunistic way, I already recognize it, because we're all talking about climate change, there's a United Nations summit... maybe we have a real one. We believe that the Government of the Generality has instruments that are not being used, and it has the right to demand more powerful instruments that allow it to get even more involved. But look, I'll just give you a xifra: we would like to develop the maximum potential of renewable energies, and we propose, in the next two years, four-thousand megawatts of wind generation and six-thousand megawatts of photovoltaic generation. It must be borne in mind that, in recent years, the increase in these energies generated by this sector has been small and we need to do much more, especially when we are all more convinced than we need to be able to dispense with nuclear energy. We would like a strategy for the energetic renovation of buildings. It is true that we are concerned about very high levels of air pollution and this requires working with the joints to define areas of action to try to reduce private transit and enhance public transport. Therefore, we believe that we have and can do more in this land, a land in which we are playing, we can no longer say the future, but the presence of our salvation and of the salvation of those who are to come. The other great claim he wanted to make today: we are all concerned about the catalá, we are concerned about the domain of languages, we are also concerned about the knowledge and quality of the knowledge of the castle, we wanted to place today, as a special priority, the English. We are well aware that the Department of Education has made a diagnosis that we share and an initiative that we share on how to improve linguistic domains in schools, but we need to recognize all the pleas that probably the priority that needs to be taken into account and that requires more resources is precisely that of the English language. For a basic question: we do not yet have the necessary faculty prepared for this language. And we must dare to have assignments in English, not just the English as the undersigned; but, as the counselor knows, much better than I do, in a very inadequate way and I am going to say – and this is one of the concerns – than in a very uneven way. To us it is the effect – and the statisticians thus show – that in the areas of special complexity the yield in angled language is significantly lower than the areas of minor complexity. It's logical that it's like this; what's not logical is that we're not doing anything to try and catch it. Because it is true that in certain areas of the country families have more opportunities to develop additional resources to teach English to their children, and there are areas that do not. And here I think that when we do this cry or when we find this question on the table with a debate of these characteristics, we do it with the will that the government actually, if it allows me a more colloquial expression, put a lot of the piles in it. Because sometimes we believe that linguistic polemics are determined, that, ultimately, they can all have their arguments and reason to be, do not really touch the problem thick from our point of view at these times, which is precisely the lack of sufficient knowledge of English. I wanted to end up, President. He said – and he did not say it as rhetorical – that we do not see clearly the political orientation of his Government. We know more or less where you'd like to go, but your government... and you, with your intervention today, haven't been able to tell us how you're going to sleep. It's logical for me to be like this. Mass sometimes, when one sets a very ambitious goal, so it's hard to explain how it's going to get there. Now, we wouldn't want the ambition of its installations to prevent us from enjoying a good government in Catalonia, what we wouldn't want is the ambition of its installations to limit the real capacity of the Government of Catalonia to face the problems of Catalans. And we have accompanied and greeted things, which also wanted to say some good of the government, and I am not saying this because at these times the Councillor of the Interior is not there, but really the compromise of increment of the plants, so we have greeted it, because it is necessary and because we may bring – all folds, here I do not want to make a political criticism, that in this land would be almost absurd –..., some of us have neglected the restorative taxes, the need to equip the personnel who are in the service of security and for the emergencies of our country better. But, President, there is much more to be done. In our view, the political exceptionality of the moment is certainly one that can explain some attitudes and some shortcomings, but we cannot put ourselves in the idea that the exceptionality explains everything, it justifies everything and the shortcomings of others also explain why we do not get there. You say – and you are right – that there are many elements that you have to see with the resources we have. But I can't remember, u, that the financing system we have is an outdated system, but it was granted, among other things, for the Republican Left and for ourselves when we ruled. According to them, his government, in the renovation, in the revision of this system, did not want to participate in the fund, because his model is another. Third, when there was a project of assumptions on the table that provided more resources, the independence groups, also legitimately, decided not to support those assumptions. Therefore, as in so many issues, the fact that we are not in government does not allow us to ignore the issue. And that's what it meant to end. President, if your government wants to govern what's in your hands and do it for the Catalans and not just what they think in a certain way, here we are. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.48.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of the deputy Jessica Albiach. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.49.0	Yes, thank you, President. And good afternoon to all of you and all of you. President, today we are attending your second general policy debate, on the one hand, because it justifies the way in which your Government is going and, on the other, because from the opposition we are analysing, well, what seems to us to be the proposal that today has made us for the one left in the legislature, if that is the case, that we do not have much clarity either. And the truth is, again, because this is also my second general policy debate, I must once again tell him that his speech seemed disappointing to us. And explain why. Because you made a move as if you were doing it all right, you didn't make any self-criticism and, therefore, what went wrong in Catalonia would be responsibility and blame for others. I think this has been balanced. And on another side, because, although you said no, it was a triumphalist debate. It seemed to us that his speech was distilling a certain air of superiority, when, indeed, we do not believe that he has motive. Jo, if you're still here, you've come out here today and you've told the truth. And when we ask the truth, when we demand the truth, it's not to reread the past, nor why and how we got here, because we think this wouldn't help us move forward, because we certainly wouldn't agree. When we demand truth is to know where we are and what possibilities we have to unlock the situation in which Catalonia is found. Therefore, we demand truth in order to move forward. We demand truth to recognize that the report has eaten up politics and that citizenship is disappointed because it has seen its frustrated expectations on many occasions. We also demand truth to recognize that an economic crisis is going on, that it is not a new crisis, that it is a phase of the crisis that we have been running for years and from which millions of people in Catalonia have not yet recovered. And you talk about economic dynamism after the crisis. President, there are people in Catalonia who have never ceased to be in crisis and you have not raised this reality. And the worst of all is that they haven't done their dues because the new crisis or the new phase of the crisis that he sees won't punish the usual. Truth also to recognize – because here he has told a truth in myths – the existence of a situation of brutal exceptionality. And here you know that we share it. This part has, however, borne out: the spread of rights and freedoms with intent to criminalise a whole movement, with completely and absolutely irresponsible speeches, linking independence with terrorism – this is an authentic barbarity – with the independence leaders more than two years in prison hoping for a sentence, which is certain that they do not hope to be fair. This part did plant it, but it didn't plant the second. And the second is that, despite all this exceptional situation, despite everything, I need to rule. And you didn't do it. And it's also true to say that the answer we give to the sentence has to be used to get close to the solutions, and that, therefore, is already good with epic and grandiose speeches, because this will not be able to land later. Truth also to recognize that Catalonia will not be able to advance if Spain does not advance and vice versa. And I know you don't like it at all that I say this sentence: Catalonia won't be able to move forward if Spain doesn't move forward. But it's that we can only prove ineffective, it's shown that it doesn't work. So, if we've seen it before, we won't fall back into the same... And now we are blocked by a PSOE by Pedro Sánchez and Ivan Redondo, who have an unusual wisdom, who are obsessed with restoring bipartisanship and keeping their hands free if at any time Brussels requires new details, being able to apply them calmly. A PSOE by Pedro Sánchez who has decided joyfully to play an extraordinary result of the 28th of April, the next 10th of November, even before the possibility of a government of Casado, Rivera and Abascal. We also demand truth to recognize that you made a declaration of climate emergency that was empty, without resources, no concrete measures or assumptions. He's been trying for over an hour to set up the climate crisis, you know, in his speech this morning. And about the diver's wave, I'm also commenting: this didn't go to taking pictures or going to a demonstration; this went from binding public policies, because we don't have a planet B, we don't have a reserve planet. Truth also to recognize that this government has only approved a law in a year and a half. And true to acknowledge that this government, the Torra-Aragonese government, has not completed its objectives, not one. And of course there's institutional instability in Spain, not that... I mean, it's obvious, there's an institutional instability in Spain tremendous, but that doesn't mean there's an institutional instability in Catalonia either. One thing doesn't get the other. It can't be that we're just looking at a part of reality. And the reality is that the Torra-Aragonese government is paralyzed and has no direction. And you haven't done your job, and instead, you've been fighting internally and competing in the independence bloc. And he likes to repeat to me that it sounds like a mike, I have to say, to the Aznar of 'Spain is fine. And for you the Catalan economy is fine, Catalonia is fine. And I'm saying, no, president, Catalonia's not right. I must say to you: Catalonia went badly and its government characterized itself during all this time to arrive late and badly. You have given gangs on the national issue, disorienting and frustrating a lot of people, I would say, squandering part of the political capital of the right to decide. And I ask him: has Catalonia's sovereignty increased all this time? Have we strengthened our self-government and our institutions, now that you talk so much about strengthening institutions? Can you tell us you've increased control over our lives, President? And the answer is no. And neither have they given solutions to the social issue, and they have left, with the passage of time and with their inaction, every time more people in the county. And who did this government's answer follow? I'll tell you what. There have been two answers that have been shouted at us, the truth, I must say, attention. The first, gratuitous charges and unwarranted rape against the people who are running out of money like we saw this week in Sants. [[Greetings.]] This was one of the answers given by his government. And what's the other answer his government gave? So I'll say it: the Aragonese law. A law that opens the door to more externalization and that still strengthens the welfare system and public services, that we already have enough vulnerability in our country. This followed your government's response and responses. I insist, we are fully aware of the exceptional situation and we will always be here to defend rights and freedoms, but precisely because of this exceptional situation we need a government that manages less and governs more. Because, moreover, the global context does not help, we live in a time that is marked by a generalized right, by a vital uncertainty where what seemed impossible yesterday, today has become the norm. The rules of the post-war world jumped into the air and globalization that collapsed in 2008_was unable to give up a new order. So, what do we see? That we have not been able, with civilization, to give a strong response to these challenges. And from this political, economic and social chaos that we live in, we end up punishing the old ones, who are the lower majority. You've made a few signs of international alarm, and I'd like to dig in a little bit, too. He told us about the trade war between Xina and the United States, he told us about the threat of a tough Brexit, which obviously generates instability of..., we already see how the German locomotive starts to "crack. I don't know... I didn't hear it, but maybe he also commented, the attacks on Saudi refineries, that what they do is show the fever of our energy sources, or the multiplication of extreme meteorological phenomena, that make the reality of the climate crisis tangible. A climate crisis that, I also want to say, is not random and not unlucky, is a climate crisis that results, that is the result of an unsustainable, predatory and voracious system, such as the capitalist system, that what it does is, on the one hand, to devote itself to extraction and, on the other hand, to condemn being a catcher half of the planet. And I also want to refer to the shame of the European Union's migration policy, which leaves thousands of people dead in the Mediterranean Sea, people who are fleeing from war, from fame, from the poor, from the same, and it is the NGOs that have to play life and freedom to save these lives, because the states are not doing their job and then they have to endure regrettable and shameful statements, such as those made by Vice-President Carmen Calvo, who says that they have no right to rescue. A shame. That's a shame. [[Greetings.]] And before this scener, we believe that Catalonia must move forward, react and make policies for the 99_per_cent. And I'm telling you that you made a triumphalist speech, because you didn't refer to the job destruction data, which are here, president, the fall of tourism, the moderation of exports. We see that GDP no longer grows at the same rate as it did in the first quarter of the year. There are some figures that are desolating of inequality. Therefore, they are signs before which we believe we can react, because, moreover, most people will not be able to endure a new wave of austerity policies. And you, for that reason, have done triumphalism, with economic figures. And, moreover, it may be that Europe, most likely, unsurely, will want us to reapply the same neoliberal receipts as usual, with the retailing of public expenditure, with privatisations and with the erosion of wages and contractual conditions of workers and workers, policies that have proved to be unfair on one side, but which are also ineffective. And, President, you haven't done a single thing to this issue. Don't you think it was time to mark position? I mean, not like that, it's not gonna be the path we're on? Or is it that – I ask you this – you are willing to re-apply austerity policies in case this crisis that is really pointing is consolidated and Catalonia attack? We want to know how this government will react. Or will they deny the alarm signs, how did you do this morning and how did Vice President Aragones do RAC1 the other day? I think it would be much better to listen to economists of all political signs and increase internal demand, which is what we are being told would serve to put an end to this crisis. President Arthur Mas told the 2012 general policy debate that austerity called for it to be understood as value and not dogma. Jo dic: « My mother, my child, my child, my child, my child, my child, my child, my child, my child, my child, my child, my child, my child, my Mr. Aragones laughs. "Menys mal, because eight years later Catalonia did not recover from the retail. And some of you, for some macroeconomic figures that sound good, are already ringing the bells in the air. And the reality is that these macroeconomic figures of what they talk about have risen on the scales of workers and workers, on the bikes of riders and on the sacrifices of the middle class. It's the myth of growth. Could it be that some people say we've grown up, but at the cost of who and at the hands of whom has gone to stop this benefit and this wealth? And while, in the State, so we're following Mr. Montoro's assumptions, because the progressive majority who took Mariano Rajoy from Moncloa has been unable to articulate a solid parliamentary majority in order to be able to consolidate, right? We had some general assumptions of the State to play, which were objectively good for Catalonia and which were social, but they did not prosper because Together for Catalonia and the Republican Left dropped them; the same Republican Left that now wants to give us there..., lessons of state height – was that I didn't come out or even the word. It's just that, of course, it's amazing that Esquerra Republicana gives us a lot of summer lessons. And then we saw how Sanchez was unable to assume a progressive stability government, which shields us for one side against the crisis and, for the other, to help us resolve the Catalan conflict. And before that, they preferred to round up their esteemed Albert and, ultimately, bring us to elections. And all because we won't let him sleep – we won't let him sleep. So, as they said yesterday on Twitter, "Sleep for Sanchez, because in this country that cannot sleep are the families that have seen their children and their daughters leave in search of a better future or the people who work and are poor. So that's enough frivolity. And we have to recognize that we have missed a Catalan socialist party that you see for yourself, that you don't stigmatize the right to decide and that you don't follow the game to Sanchez every time he posed Catalonia as an excuse or said he didn't have a specific proposal for Catalonia, because, overall, it's worth any proposal, like the rest of the territories of the State. And I ask you, Mr. Iceta, do you really think that there is a possible solution for Catalonia from Albert Rivera's hand? What do you mean? Because you said: "In the words they have proposed, no. But maybe in other words, yes. So I ask him: in what terms? Because you, like me, have listened to the speech made by Mrs. Roldán. Do you think I could get some sort of solution for Catalonia out of here? I honestly don't think so. And that's why I think it's true and brave to admit it. I think we clearly need fewer headlines and more dialog tables. I think I need to think less about the electoral calculations and more about the calculations that people have to make to get to the end of the month. And I think I need to look more at the country and less at the games. I believe that this country needs less sectarianism and more humiliation. And it's time to put us to work thinking about our own two years, and not so much in the next week or the next month. Because, besides, people are sick of inoperative institutions. Every time they see us more and more timeless, and that makes democracy worse. I believe that if we want a solid democracy that we are institutions that respond to the concerns of the citizenry. But let's go back to Catalonia and to the reality of millions of Catalans and Catalans who do not fit, President, into your 'Calta' is fine. I have to say, Catalonia has lost a decade, and most of this country has never emerged from the crisis. I think you've gone up and down the country, but you haven't seen or heard more than you wanted to hear and see. It is secreted for its harms and for selective economic figures. And since you're always talking about numbers and claiming numbers, I'm going to give it to some of you that you haven't referred to, I think because they don't like it. I don't like them either, but it's just that we're not going to solve the problems. You've ventilated it with a 'we have better space, and with 'we have better space' we've already done it. So I'll put it down. Catalonia is now investing a 20_per_cent less in social policies than it did years ago, and we are the ones who have reversed the details. Catalonia has more dependent waiting lists than the entire state, and one_of_each_three dependents has no performance. Catalonia now targets a Not to mention the 14 percent of the people who work and are poor, because he has also seen how his salary has been devalued and has some extreme precariousness conditions. During the first quarter of 2019 there were more than 3,500 denunciations. This means that, every day, about forty families lose their homes. And I ask myself, President, where are these figures? Or children's poverty: one of every four children or children is in a situation of extreme vulnerability. And you didn't say anything either. And I think we have to recognize that for all these years, and even now, I've won Catalonia from the Box and lost Catalonia from the people. And this reality and this truth you didn't say, and I think it was important that, one day as today, you make this reality clear. Because, in addition, it is evidence that you have not done your dues, that this government has watered down the few, while public servants are each time more degraded, and the people's economy is each time narrower. In the previous general policy debate you said between few and nothing about the social assumptions that Catalonia needed. He's done it today. And we appreciate it, because the country really needs it. We are aware that the country needs some new assumptions to change the situation. But let's just say the truth: if I find out, if at the moment, Catalonia is on the presuppositional side and doesn't have any presuppositions, it's because you didn't do it and because you didn't want it. In fact, you yourself, president, said that now that the electoral cycle had ended..., that's what I thought, because now we see no. So you assumed that the electoral cycle was over, so we could be able to negotiate honestly. And I'm telling you, we always, since the minute zero, have been able to negotiate honestly with these assumptions. And that is very clear: not for this government, which we have asked for a question of trust, which we asked for to call elections; not for this government, of which we are in the past, but for Catalonia, because we have very much in mind that our priority is to care for and protect people, and because with elections or without elections, with this government or with another government, the schools are asking for teachers, young people must be able to go to the university if they want, the ill people need healthcare and public hospitals, the poor are already employed in our country, the people who deserve peace, and because they need to provide a shelter for the families they are not. And also because we firmly believe that wealth must be redistributed, that we must advance in feminism and that we must protect the planet. For all this, we do, and not for this government, I insist, that we consider inoperative and of which we are in the antipodes. And we are also very clear and well aware that we are able to negotiate these assumptions – we are aware, and we are moving forward with this – but we believe that this country needs a green and black social turn in order to be able to get out of the paralysis in which it is now itself. And as you yourself have said on some occasion, in exceptional situations, it is necessary to make exceptional decisions. And they told us, in addition, that we wanted everything, that we wanted elections and that we wanted assumptions. So I'm telling you that it's not that we want everything, it's that what we want is the best for Catalonia, and that if the Torra-Aragonese government remains inoperative, so it's going to have to fold, it's going to have to call elections, so easy, because what it is to unlock Catalonia. And, besides, you, one more time, talked about putting in the Catalonian march. We've heard it on other occasions: "We need to put it in Catalonia. The problem is that you want to put a diesel car in the Catalonia out of the way that has the punched wheels and that has no direction. And we want to put in the Catalonian march changing model, changing paradigm, betting for public transport and facilitating people's lives. So this is the future, and I think it's absurd to resist there. Elections may be trigging for a few months or less, but this government has the counting months. You're talking about putting Catalonia out. I insist, here we agree, but we believe that this goes through a new government; a new government that has to be left-handed, a new government that has to stop dispossession by accumulation, that does not have to market social rights, that has to work for a new social contract that has to be broken by the elites, that has to advance towards a post-capitalist and post-growth model, that has to give vital expectations to young people and that has to put life in the centre. And also a government that doesn't think it speaks so much about the republic, because practice. A government that, moreover, must be progressive and plurinational, that will bring the religion of the schools, that will place social justice and culture at the center, the ecological transition as a model and feminism as a method before so much empty rhetoric. In short, what we want is a government of the left to work to eradicate the precariousness that threatens our lives and also to end the animal abuse, which we consider to be talked about between a few and nothing in this Parliament. We are realists, president, and we know that the only one who can call these elections is you. And that's why we also think we need to think about the while; we need to think about all those people who get up every morning and are anxious because they need public servants who are armored and need to be prepared before the recession you see. And in times of uncertainty as we live, we need proposals for the future, dialogue and agreement. I'd say before, less sectarianism and more engagement with the country. And before a Torra-Aragonese government that we see that it has become watered down and that it is exhausted, before the proposal of the left-wing concentration government, that they know that it is not going anywhere and that the only thing that is trying to store the current government's fracá, we propose is an understanding for the future. With the inequality that we have, with the new phase of the crisis that enters, with the civil disaffection, not only against politics but in general against politicians, so, as a short-lived, there is a wonderful camp left because it grows and it strengthens an extreme right that each time is more organized. And if it's not the extreme right, it's a widespread right, which is what we're seeing, not just Catalonia and Spain, but the rest of the world. And that's why we're betting on an entity for the future, where we all have to agree on essential issues. For example, combat corruption with exemplary and transparentness; in shielding public services to fight against inequality, which is ultimately the main fracture that crosses our society and, therefore, here also put an end to the Aragonese law. Thirdly, an undertaking for the future for a recovery of political normality and the dialogue, starting with the freedom of prisoners and political prisoners. Fourthly, knowing that our main challenge as a country is a civil crisis that also implies a climate crisis. And, therefore, we have to put all the tools in front of this crisis, starting with the deployment of the Climate Change Law, which is still stalled: investments in public transport, restrictions on the use of the car, bans on plastics, a public energy operator, green taxation... We have a lot of tools that are still to be deployed. We only have two years to put a stop to the catastrophe and we're late. In five places, as an undertaking for the future, also, that ends with a Catalonia of first and second, in order to fight firmly territorial inequity. It can't be that there's an empty Catalonia, that it's cream and that it's the abandonment of institutions. An understanding for the future, too, that revolves around the most important revolution of our time, such as feminism, which is also the best antidote to put up with the extreme right. And an understanding for the future that goes to be a cobbled country and to put a health cord on all those who link immigration and insecurity. This has a name, and is said to be xenophobic; therefore, it cannot be. We want to be a cobbled country. I, lastly, an undertaking to design a new funding system just so that it doesn't leave anyone behind. We also agree here, President. We have a finance that is completely insufficient, that does not only suffer Catalonia, but also suffers Catalonia. Therefore, we would be on his side every time that it is possible to improve the financing system, because it is absolutely unfair. This understanding for the future is not of the parties, but of the people, and they do not intend to end the plurality of society nor of the projects close to each party, but that it is a pact of the least, it is a tool to unlock the situation in which Catalonia is now found. Because, in addition, we are sure that the majority of Catalan society, regardless of what it has voted for, regardless of the flag on its balcony, wants to shield and recover the welfare system, social and climate justice, wants to advance in feminism and wants to recover political normality and end with exceptionality and repression. And here I would make a call to Mrs. Lorena Roldán. I believe that, regardless of how you name each prisoner and political press – that this is our terminology, but not everyone has to take it – you should listen to many of your voters. I think they'd do well to change this hate speech and this punitive populism, that they don't take us away and that they don't offer any solutions. So our understanding for the future goes through this conviction, to pose before that which separates us from what we can share, because we have all made mistakes and all of us are certainly right too. But the reality is that Catalonia cannot remain paralyzed; now it is time to roam, to do our work with humility, more and better. And that's why I need to be aware – and here I do want to hold on to a little more – of the exceptional moment we live in. The Supreme Court's ruling is expected to be guilty and will be harsh, and I believe we must rise. To be at the height means not to exploit, for one thing, prisoners and political prisoners, but not to be hypocrites and to make speeches and generic appeals that were oriented to abide by the feeling without more. That is why we have put forward a proposal that we believe can bring together a very large majority of Catalan society focusing above all on giving an answer – and here I want to highlight the word – effective to the feeling. I think the answer we give must be effective. And that's why we want to shout at all the Catalan forces, to stop the prosecution, to stop the rights and freedoms, to move forward in dialogue. And this is particularly important for us to ask Mr Iceta's PSC to look kindly at our motion for a resolution, because ultimately what we want is to use all political and legal life for the freedom of prisoners and political prisoners, of independent leaders. Because, I insist, I think I should say a truth... as I have said, there is a truth that is indisputable: while the independent leaders are in prison, we cannot have a dialogue and we cannot have a confrontation of democratic projects. [[applause]] - No, no, no, So, if we want to move forward, this isn't where we're going. I'm done. This general policy debate can serve two purposes. It can be used to further deepen the public disaffection towards institutions, politics and politics – and I think that if this is the intention of today's general policy debate, we only have to follow as we have been so far, with toilets, every one of them at his club, with a speech full of ethics but empty of content, thinking about the next month, but not about the own two years, thinking about the party and not in Catalonia – or we can take advantage of this debate – which is what I call it – with an opportunity to reach consensus that allows us to unlock the situation. And, I repeat, we are not asking anyone to give up their projects – we obviously do not give up ours either –; only now we believe that in order to unlock and move forward we need, among all, to exercise responsibility, generosity and empathy. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.50.0	Thank you, Mrs. Albiach. Then, on behalf of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word MP Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.51.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, we want to make clear our solidarity with political prisoners and prisoners, with exiles and exiles, and with all the people – all – who suffer repression for the defense of social, civil and political rights, including – and today especially included – the detainees of 23 September, objects and victims, sense of doubt, of state terrorism. [[Greetings.]] Obviously, and consequently, we must refer to the repressive context in the context of this intervention. The arrests of September 23rd are the preamble of the Supreme Court's judgments and they want to generate by, at a time when criminalizing political dissent, forcing the imposition of the rapport of violence with the speech of hatred and the fracture that Ciutadans presented today as a basis of the report of the State. Certainly, Ciutadans, who must be in the state of shock for Franco's own exhumation and have had to resort to facts of the 1990s to try to criminalize the independence of the present. [[Greetings.]] Before that, we denounce the democratic failure of the State and also the weak reaction – we have to say – of the Generality and of the government's parties, which continue to deny and keep the stuff, as well as complicity with repression or the cowardly and complicit silence of the rest of the parties. Also, at the popular level the response to feelings has already begun, making clear that before terrorism is the popular self-organization, social mobilization and civil disobedience are the way forward, sense of doubt. A very quick reference to the global context – other groups that have preceded me have already done so. A global context of economic, environmental and democratic crisis caused by the globalisation of capitalism on a global scale. But we are also talking about the context of the Spanish State, in which these three global crises are compounded by the territorial crisis: the 78's regime reacts to its fragility with democratic regression, repression, anti-social policies and the absence of democratic solutions to the political conflict in Catalonia. Governments that govern after November 10th, will be more on the right, more in agreement with IBEX 35 and the monarchy, and with more repression. There are no conditions for dialogue and negotiation, and the State and the 78th rule will never allow it, governments who govern. The resolution of the conflict will need to be forced. And the Catalan institutions have a responsibility to create the conditions for them to come to a resolution of the conflict, and that is to be done with sovereignty, with confrontation with the State and with a wall in defense of social, civil and political rights. And now we move to the political situation in Catalonia, marked, in our view, by a government that at these times is more installed in the perpetuation of the autonomic mark than not in breaking it. Mirin, lords and lords of the government: who is driving to Catalonia? The Civil Guard or Catalan institutions? It is clear that today the Catalan institutions are not a democratic wall that interposes between repression and citizenship, and, as demonstrated by the same late September 23rd, we say that the alternative is clear: popular power. Neither are you a wall that defends the people of precariousness and the poor, that punishes more than one third of our people and threatens much more in the context of the economic recession than above, without the government being today shielding public services or guaranteeing basic rights, such as housing, or redistributing wealth with fair fiscal policies and equality. A government that does not advance in the national or social sphere: neither sovereignty, nor self-determination, nor reversal of inequalities, nor public appropriation of the basic and strategic resources of the country – in private hands. A government that is still leading the repression against protest and dissent. It seems, President, that the Mossos d'Esquadra did not take any account of their speech on the grounds of the new promotion: denominations, collaboration with the Civil Guard on 23 September before the popular protests in Sabadell – today even a Vilanova company has been stopped for the moves for having protested before the High Court of Justice of Catalonia against the arrest of prisoners and political prisoners – or in the mobilizations of the 30th generation and 21st of September – with the Generalitat as a particular accusation asking for higher penalties than the same prosecution. And, meanwhile, Together for Catalonia and Esquerra, more concerned about their electoral interests and their disputes of autonomous power than for a country project that firmly embraces national and social repts. And, meanwhile, what do they propose to us? A government of concentration. A government of concentration to continue managing the autonomy and fiction of negotiation with the State or to continue with anti-social policies and repression? Or a government of concentration to break democracy with the State and exercise self-determination, to defend public services and territory, to defend social, civil and political rights for everyone? A presupposition. A presupposition to follow the troika and the state? To continue to privatize and come the country? To reproduce privileges and inequalities? They're also talking about strengthening institutions. Strengthen institutions to continue obeying the State and the IBEX 35 or to govern by imposing itself on real estate speculators, to put up with misdemeanours and to guarantee the right to housing? Strong institutions to impose themselves on speculators that plague the territory and exacerbate the climate crisis? To impose themselves on the markets that want to privatize public services and the country's resources and infrastructure by imposing themselves on companies that pre-charitate work and guarantee a decent job for everyone? Do you obey the state to defend civil and political rights? No, no, I need to disobey the State to defend social, civil and political rights for everyone, when it is the State that violates them. Do we want strong institutions for all this or for giving continuity to the autonomous regime and continuing to lower the head before the State? Mirin, we're making our proposals. We make our proposals before the disorientation, before the paralysis and before the blockade of the current Government of the Generality. We're proposing to get out of sugar. We're planning a political proposal. The only political response today is the democratic conflict, a conflict that has to be expressed in many different areas: political, social and institutional. It is the only one that can bring forward the objective of self-determination, independence, and, therefore, full sovereignty. On the other hand, the only response that some draw as a response to feelings goes through such empty, tactical and partisan proposals as, on one side, the formation of a national concentration government of more or less broad ideological spectrum that guarantees the reinforcement of Catalan institutions, which avoids a new application of Article 155, and, on the other, a more or less continuous process of popular mobilization that may include the exercise of civil disobedience. According to this plan that some propose, these two aspects – institutional strengthening, on the one hand, and mobilization and civil disobedience, on the other – cannot conflict, and, if they do, institutional strengthening will always be a priority. This plan indefinitely postpones any real democratic conflict in favor of the exercise of self-determination. And this postpones it in favour of an accumulation of forces that can be expressed basically in the electoral plan, and that the solution of a referendum agreed with the Spanish State ends up, as if it were by magic, for its own sake, an agreement with the majorities that can express themselves to Catalonia and the rest of the State: a path that does not take place. This path will not take place, we assure them; it is an absolutely lost path. And you, President, have made us a list of all the hardships of the State, of all the hardships that the State is doing with Catalonia, of all the violations of rights that the State is doing with Catalonia, which we know very well – and unfortunately, we also suffer them – but before the crisis, before the disorientation, the current political situation in the country, the country needs answers and proposals that are viable, that are effective and that are real. And we make our proposal; we hope that I will listen to it carefully. We propose a great political agreement for self-determination, amnesty and civil and political rights that acquiesces all parties, great political, economic, social and cultural agents of the country, around great consensus on the exercise of self-determination, amnesty and phonenal rights. It is not about an agreement only between independenceists, but about an agreement of democratic forces of every political sign on the right to self-determination and also, among other things, obviously on independence. This great political and social agreement of the country should include the assumptions from which the Government should assume a republican proclamation with all its consequences, with the support of all political, economic, social and cultural parties and agents of the country, as well as the compromise to settle a democratic resolution of the conflict with or without the consent of the State. In this case, of course, we cannot rule out either the possibility of creating an alternative provisional institutionality to autonomics as an instrument of democratic counterpower to the State. The deployment of concerted international action at institutional, political, economic, social and cultural level in defence of this great political agreement for self-determination should also be one of the fundamental instruments of collective political action. Second place, total amnesty. Accessed to the time of self-determination and as an indestribable part of the program oriented to the recognition and exercise of this right collect, the defense of a total amnesty that annuls all the legal causes imposed against persons who have been prosecuted, tried, detained or undertaken to defend the right to self-determination that repair the damage caused to these persons, their families and the collectivities of which they are part, and that provides for measures with regard to all those responsible for the repression of phonenal rights. And finally, in the third place, the practically total repositioning of political priorities, assumptions, economics, social, financial, migration and environmental, orienting the new policies to face up to privileges and inequalities. This can only be done through a shoal that allows you to socialize all the habitats that are needed to guarantee the right to housing and eliminate the speculation with this right to the very least possible. Also unify, nationalize and rationalize all educational and health centres and resources in the country in simple public, single, universal, free and quality systems. To guarantee public investment in rights such as health, education, work and a habitable environment through a radical reform of the tax system that guarantees an effective and real system of redistribution of wealth, and also through the reduction to the minimum possible of all the expenses provided for in repressive and arms. That independence leads the change to a truly democratic, just, equal and solidary society, at the same time that it fully compromises with the planet. The independence left is up. And, finally, who's the key back from the fold? Empowerment and popular self-organization, to guarantee the social force necessary to force the institutions to a new way of defending the rights and exercises of self-determination; civil disobedience to force institutional disobedience; confrontation to create the internal and international conditions of conflict resolution, the fictitiousness of repression, the guarantee of social, civil and political rights, and the effective exercise of self-determination. Popular power as the main force to soothe the necessity, the essential democratic rupture with the State, which is the key that must open the door pany to self-determination, social rights, civil rights and political rights for everyone in the Catalan countries. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.52.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.53.0	Thank you very much, President. How can we address a general policy debate when there is a government that does not govern, which lacks the essential elements that any democratic government in the West needs to move forward, has no parliamentary majority to support it, has no budget? How can we address a general policy debate when we have witnessed a process of deliberate degradation of parliamentarianism in Catalonia replaced by direct action? How can we address a general policy debate when it seems that everything has been said for so long – on July 24 we were celebrating a plenary very similar to today? We approach it with courage and optimism, because we do not give up politics, politics of truth, that of democratic institutions, of parliamentarians, of the politics of the law, not of riots on the street. And, in order to make a diagnosis of the current situation, they will allow me to go a little back and go back to 1990. Why do I choose that date? On that date, the acceleration of the national construction process designed by Jordi Pujol through the 2000 programme is considered to begin. I'll ask you a few questions. Does the Generalitat have more or less powers today than in 1990? You will say that you are insufficient, but it is clear that you have so many more. Does the Generalitat have more collection capacity today than in 1990 or less? You will say that insufficient, but infinitely more; in 1990 he had absolutely nothing. Does the Generalitat have more officials today or less than in 1990? It's hard, calculus. Some speak that it has multiplied by two hundred in this period; others, by three hundred. I will not say a specific figure; what is evident is that it has nothing to do with those years in which..., Jordi Pujol himself, in his memoirs, said that the Generalitat – I quote textually – "we were Prenaphet and I. That has nothing to do with it. Well, when these questions are raised, the next question that should be asked is: Is it better today, Catalonia, or in 1990? It is true that there have been advances in technology that allow us to live more comfortably in any Western society, and that is no exception here, but if we look at it from the point of view of leadership and competitiveness, we can clearly conclude that today we are worse than in 1990, and, curiously, with more skills, with more officials and with more money than in 1990. And, curiously, "Madrit – finished in you, as they like to say – with less skills and less taxes, is better than in 1990. Yeah, that's right. In 1990 Catalonia was the first per capita income community in Spain; today it is the fourth. In 2008, Catalonia's GDP grew by 2.6_per_cent; Madrid's GDP by 3.2. But the worst part is that we're talking about almost a surprise. In the 1980s, Catalonia grew almost twice as much each year as Madrid, and the surprise was absolutely at a cosmic distance from being able to produce itself; I repeat, with more skills, with more money, with more officials. This leads us to conclude, as the economist Francesc Moreno recently pointed out, that Catalonia has suffered from a lack of self-government. That is, the bigger the Generalitat has been, the worse it has gone to the Catalans as a whole. Does this mean that decentralization policies governed by the principle of subsidiarity are bad? Not necessarily. Castile and León and Rioja are now leading the OECD's ranquins in educational quality; we are in line. Self-government has been good to them; to us, evil. And it's not a money problem, no matter how much they say. You will always say it is insufficient, but in 1990 you had much less and Catalonia was doing much better. And why does that happen? Thirty years later, the answer is indisputable. If self-government is directed to national construction and not to quality public policies, it destroys everything it touches, and that is what we have been living here for too many years. Since 1990 a monster has been feeding us that has led us to the grotesque delirium that we have lived in recent years, and that I would like to describe through five points. The first: a Catalan administration, fierce devouring of resources, which has been gradually undermining the private sector to create elephantic structures that are not state but that are highly unproductive, when not directly a slab. That is the real slab that the Catalans have; not Madrid, those structures. Two: a linguistic protectionism that has ended up generating an endogamy, sought, of course. When we say that a Barcelonan can present himself to an opposition in Malaga quietly and that a Malagasy finds an entry barrier, that has been sought. Because I wouldn't even... I obviously wouldn't agree, but you haven't even looked for an intermediate point, have you? , for example, that someone can compete equally, and then, after a couple of years, demand certain knowledge of the co-official language. Well, it would have been a_medium. No, it's just that you guys didn't want them to come. That's why only one of the top ten MIR scores in 2018 asked for destination in Catalonia; in the 1990s it was eight_of_each_ten. This was the paradise where everyone wanted to go, and now it's the hell that everybody wants to go. And this doesn't sound bad to you. It doesn't seem bad to you, because in the end you believe that all this is yours and for your enjoyment. This is what, in a happy expression coined by Professors Benito Arrunada and Víctor Lapuente..., defined as the Catalan clergy, that parasitic framework of national construction that affects culture, education, social entities; in short, everything. In short, also, that the summer paella of Rahola..., to its members has gone very well in life, but to the rest of Catalans has gone much worse. Three: the greatest fiscal pressure, with a great deal of difference, in all of Spain: fifteen own taxes. We have to go to eight, to Andalusia, second – second, eight – Madrid has four. Nothing to do with 1990. He used to be attracted to people, now he's scared of them. Four: I find it curious that you speak of the Pact for Industry ; parole, parole... On this one day I will write, because I am in it. What you have sought is the conscious acceleration of the deindustrialization process in Catalonia for strictly political motives. Why? It is no coincidence that they call the thousands of compatriots who came here to work precisely in this industry. It feels like they're bothering you today. It gives the feeling that they need to leave I don't know if two hundred thousand or three hundred thousand. It is that expression that when we discuss politics with you..., when the arguments fail you, always fall into that finezza, that is to say "if you don't like it, fuck the camp. I'm sure it's happened to you once: you argue with a nationalist, and if you start winning the debate..., "if you don't like it, fuck the camp. That's, in short, what they're looking for. And five: the destruction of the historic Catalan diplomacy that had contributed decisively to helping the Catalan economy and the rest of Spain, and that has been replaced by absolutely shaky characters like Salvinis, Bossis, the far right of Flanders, Finland, not to mention Pamela Anderson or Yoko Ono – signing, the latter, providential, given the lady's ability to divide even the most legendary unions. In short, as long as the process of national construction remains alive, more poverty will have Catalonia. And that is the conceptual error of the PSC, with a lot of difference, because you continue to insist that more self-government is the solution. On the contrary: as long as the process of national construction remains alive, this self-government will continue to be used to destroy the coexistence and the Catalan economy. And if today we are worse than in 1990, in 2030 decadence will be irreversible. Well, the end of this delusion could only be the replacement of parliamentary politics by an identity populist movement. Direct action, yes: September 6 and 7, civil disobedience, everything we have experienced. And, unfortunately, the encumbrance of convicted terrorist murderers, such as Carles Sastre, or kidnappers, such as Arnaldo Otegi, elevated and elevated to the category of man of peace. Mr. Torra, if you Carles Sastre, who put a bomb on Bultó's chest, looks like a man of peace, it is normal for you to confuse violence and peace irreversibly and irresolvably. I know you're not all like that, but you don't dare speak out of fear of being called a botifler. How sad, not to be free men and women and to be able to say what they think freely... Because they are also perceiving a very painful truth, and it is that the smallest social mobilization of separatism has coincided with its leaders prosecuted and tried for serious crimes against democracy. It is the pedagogical value of the law – the pedagogical value of the law. This causes enormous frustration, and those who believe in "Otegi-style peace" are doing themselves with the leadership of the movement, because that is the key to what is happening right now. The real drama today, September 25, 2019, and the real debate, is not "independence yes or "independence no; that is separate. The real debate is the possibility that the separatist movement will take a dramatic turn in its strategy and leadership towards scenarios that could well freeze our blood. And those scenarios... I don't care much about what Mr. Torra thinks, because I already know what he thinks; I care much more about what you think, Mr.Iceta, because ambiguity and relativism have a limit, in this life, however smart it is and is created – that it is too – but they have a limit. Think a little bit about it. Well, years of pedagogy, years of pedagogy to disobey the law, have led us there. It is the strategy of what my good friend Juan Milián has defined as the « Waterloo bunker, that everything blocks it, that everything boycotts it; they play capriciously and frivolously with the future of everyone, complacent, delighted to have known each other. Because Laura Borràs has read El Quixote, what she learns; instead, the Spaniards say: "It is that we do not know how to read. This is the Maribel level of the Waterloo bunker. If you were to see yourselves with my eyes, Angels, you would change your view of yourself so complacently. Well, that pedagogy of hatred of everything Spanish translates into an offensive campaign to portray Spain, one of the twenty full democracies in the world, a reliable partner throughout the West, as a dictatorship of repression and torture. That's all right, with the argument. That's all right, Mr. Torra. No repression or torture. Here the only torture we have to endure with Franciscan patience is his morning perorate monocords halfway between the immoral and the dullest boredom. Mr. Torra, if you have to declare the independence of Catalonia, do it now, today, here and now; but, for God's sake, do not torture us anymore with your monks, because there is no one to endure it. I urge you to do so. [[Some applause.]] What can Democrats do to reverse this situation? To begin to end this nightmare, we have proposed a motion of censure to the Citizens and PSC groups. And I say well: "to begin to end, because I am fully aware – I am not naive – that I would have little chance of succeeding. But lately I refer to the motion of censure presented by Felipe González, who lost at the plenary session of Congress, but won before public opinion, and built a large majority a few months later. We have an obligation, the Catalan Democrats, to build a message of hope for millions of Catalans, who attend the spectacle of their autonomous government. Our system demands a constructive motion of censure, that is, with a minimum common agenda. We are committed to a democratic commitment, a democratic commitment that guarantees a government of Catalonia at the service of the coexistence, stability and security of people in the face of the threats of insurrection and civil disobedience launched by the president of the Generalitat of Catalonia. It is a non-ideological, minimal democratic commitment to be able to launch this motion of censure, which would have two essential elements. First, to regain the spirit of September 6 and 7, when the Catalan Democrats, including the common ones – who has seen you and who sees you –..., to be able to defend law and democracy. Who has seen you and who sees you, but welcome you would also be again in the spirit of September 6 and 7. And, secondly, a plan to prevent the disturbances that may occur in Catalonia to protect the freedom of movement of Catalans, their right to go to their place of work, their school, take a train, their car, go to a road..., all these days. And I want to make an appeal to Citizens as leaders, more voted force, who should lead – it would be normal – that motion of censure. Many have placed hopes on all of us to do something. You repeatedly refer to mistakes in my party's past; I believe that in some cases you exaggerate, but I have had no inconvenience in recognizing publicly, even here, some that we had committed. I want to ask you not to hide yourselves in them anymore, not to use them as an excuse to do nothing, and, above all, when I say not to use them as a shield..., because you know perfectly well that from the intellectual point of view it is a dishonest argument and disappoints many people. And, finally, I wanted to address the PSC; I already know that nowadays it is to have more moral than the alcoyan, but I do not lose hope. You dream of a tripartite Republican Left, you think it's the solution. But I have an obligation to remind you of the same thing: if you participate in a government that continues to have the process of national construction as a vertebrate axis, it will happen to you as with the previous tripartite, which you were about to self-destruct. And the worst: Catalonia will continue with its unstoppable decadence. What we propose to you we know is a much more complex, longer, more difficult, much more tortuous path, but it is the good one. Don't doubt it, it's the good one. It is the good from the political point of view; it is the good from the ethical point of view, and it is the good from the moral point of view. So even if we're just four and laugh, we'll win, because we're right. Thank you so much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.54.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.55.0	Good afternoon. President – who told me he was coming back –, Speaker of Parliament, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, we are here, at the door of one of the most difficult, of course, of our history. Not for many days will the Supreme Court's judgment be made public, a judgment that, in any case – because the acquittal, unfortunately, no longer we hope – will be an attack on our institutions, our leaders, our rights and the freedoms of all Catalans. In short, an attack on the same democracy. It will be, because it is the reaction of a state against a political movement that has made it thunder. In fact, the only political move that has made the status quo over the last forty years: independence. A political project that went great every time we went through the polls, that was tolerated while it was a minority and that brought out the worst face of the State so good it became a majority and wanted to make its political proposals come true. A state that defends its territorial integrity by violating its rights, obliving its rights and renouncing what is more basic: the defense of freedom and democracy. We all know that there were no crimes to blame, that it is only an attempt to scare the representatives of a political option, to frighten the citizens who share this project. But if one thing we've made clear many times is that we don't get tired, that we don't give up and that we won't disappear. You always say Oriol Junqueras, and if he's not tired, if they're not tired, if they're not yielding, we won't do it. We are here to win the freedom of our country, to build a republic different from the state where we must live today, fair, net, bright, welcoming, from everyone and for everyone. A project that's giant and that's just as hard as illusionary. A project that only grows, because when you embrace it you can't leave it anymore, not even when the smiles have left behind the bars and the repression. In short, we are here today, another time, with the will to continue fighting, and to do so with the only and best tools we know: ballots and votes; democracy as a tool of a movement always, always, always, always peaceful. Always peaceful, Mrs. Roldán. That's enough. You can say it a hundred and fifty thousand times; you can keep trying to create a false report, you can keep threatening the president and the whole bench, but your job won't change our determination or our will. Your irresponsibility will not change our convictions or the only way we contemplate to complete our political project: ballot boxes, the formula that you do most for. And we follow with the ballot boxes, because the late election will be marked by some other ballot boxes, by some Spanish elections, some elections fruit of the inability to listen and to agree; some elections fruit of the lack of a consolidated democratic culture, fruit of the excess of testosterone, of the electoral calculator of Pedro Sánchez, of the permanent bread to the sister and to speak. They were once appalled by the words "rapporteur" and "four fatxes" in Columbus. Now we know that something as simple as the idea of a fall scares them. We'll let you know and let you know. [[remorse of the voice]] : we're coming to talk.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.56.0	Wait a minute, Congressman. Members... go on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.57.0	We're here to talk, and we've warned and re-announced, because this late or late will end up in a table. But we also warned the next campaign: if they can, they will agree with Ciutadans, and they will do so against Catalonia. And since they didn't get there in time, they're going to get us a few new choices to prove it again. So we'll go back there to make it impossible again, to have the opportunity to force them again. Because, as Gabriel Rufián always says, the PSOE does not dialogue; it is obliged to dialogue. So we'll go back to Madrid stronger to replant a chair in the front, the chair from which Mrs. Carmen Calvo rose and from which we've never risen. And, out of responsibility, we'll never get up, thank you very much, despite the fact that we've got plenty of motium left. We only believe in politics, to resolve political conflicts, and never, ever, ever close this door. It goes down October, and it goes down in a context of maximum instability for the State, at institutionally precarious, but with the device to return the repression to its maximum expression, returning the clau with the sense of the general cause of the State against independence, a cause that will need to be denounced internationally and, at the same time, respond to it strengthen our institutions jointly, unitarily, coordinated. From October 2017..., it didn't end well, but we learned a lot. It is obvious that we did not achieve the objective that we had set ourselves, but it is also true, as Raül Romeva always says, that, despite the fact that the way is much higher, we are more close than ever to the top. Today, of course, we suffer a great deal, and thanks to those who played it, we continue to have a historic opportunity at our hands to achieve freedom. It is true that we did not expect a level of repression as we found ourselves, nor violence against the citizens, but neither do we give up nor take steps back; more quickly on the contrary, we do not learn to continue advancing. Now they recognize all the actors involved: we are in a phase of accumulating forces, where we will have to prepare more and better, but you have no doubt that we will achieve it. We are here because our goal is to improve the living conditions of the people, of the citizens of this country, and that is why we are independent, because we know that this is the only way to do it. We want a society that is closer, fairer, more egalitarian and more democratic, and there is no more viable option. And we prepare from the learnings of October 17. And at this stage of getting ready to go back there, we will not give up a minute to improve the living conditions of the people of this country, because it is up to us to do, always and at all times; we will fight for political and national rights with dialogue and non-violence, but we will also make all the needs of the day-to-day. Because the country doesn't move forward if we don't give our people the best possible living conditions, and we can only build a better society every day. For us the key to return is independence, and the best tool, the republic. But as long as we don't have it, we can't keep our arms folded; day by day it demands the resources to make it possible. And we have few, but more than we had: 2,500 million euros more in social spending. I will repeat again: 2,500_million euros more than at the end of the approved budget, which we can invest in social spending. We have the assumptions extended two years ago, and expanding the spending by 2,500_million is at the hands of all of us. It's in your hands. To strengthen the system of social assistance, to reduce university taxes, to improve sanitation, to finance public places for children, to shield some of the pillars of our society. How can they give up? The Department of Economy's proposal for 2020 is superior, at last, to 2019, this one that didn't even get to the chamber because some, by pure electoralism, gave up negotiating. Today Catalonia needs assumptions. You're urgent. We have an opportunity to do it, and we ask you all for an effort. An effort to shield the social rights of the citizenry, rights that today we carry in writing in the motions for resolutions that we will present this evening: safe ports, inclusive school, struggle against the poor energy. And today I can't go over it all, but I would like to put the emphasis on three fundamental pillars of the future, which some of the groups have also touched and the president too: the climate emergency, feminism and the fight against corruption, as examples, just where we have to go. The future of the country only passes through the rights and freedoms, to the welfare of citizens in equal opportunities, to the justice and defense of freedoms, to end inequalities, to end all inequalities. And it's a future that we want polyhedral, with all the nuances: national, social, economic, feminist, ecological, energetic. And on all the edges of this future, which we want complete, we need to put the needle in line from now on. We can't just stand back, 'cause we're late. We can't apologize in the fight against climate emergency; we're not doing enough and we're not doing enough. The only future we have left for the planet is not to continue doing what we've done so far. We have to make a change of model of society, a change of model produced, with concrete policies, with facts, with steps. We haven't made small, small masses, and we can't doubt it anymore. Let's get out of the vacuum and fill it with content. It is up to us to be brave and lead a change that does not come back, because only the struggle for responsible, democratic and sustainable energy sovereignty guarantees the future as a country. A very young activist, Greta Thunberg, reminded us of this, standing in front of the world's arresting officer, and we will no doubt be demanding citizenship again this time to sell: "We take on the challenges that surround us and do not steal or betray the future of the generations that will come. We can also stay half way in the gender perspective: we need the women to be at the center of everything. And we can only do so if we read all – I repeat, all – the policies of this gender perspective. We did it in July in a plethora here in Parliament and we put it again today on the table, and we will do it until we drop it: we need the derogation from the Foreign Law to guarantee the rights of women migrated. We need to deploy the law of effective equality of women and men. We must end the wage gap, and we cannot go on perpetuating patriarchal stereotypes or communication media or audiovisual media. We need to be very ambitious in this area, because we have been conditioning the lives of half the people of our country for a long time. The Catalonia we want to build must guarantee the absolute equality of opportunity at half the population, or it will not be worth it. There are many indispensable axes in a general policy debate. In this House we want to highlight another, because the republic we want has only felt if it is net, absolutely net. That is why we need to build a strategy against corruption, which guarantees without cracks public integrity. We must fight against the tax fraud, again with concrete, relentless measures against whom the basis of political confidence is mined and laminated. Yes, energy and sustainable sovereignty, feminism and the fight against corruption: three foundational pillars that will guide our future, three foundational pillars at the time of shielding our rights, which must, as I say, be accompanied by struggles against inequality, against the poor, against the poor energy, at the cost of building an inclusive and forward-looking school, a modern, efficient and quality health system, and so many more examples that we could set. We only solve all these challenges that we have as society, but with the tools of a fully sovereign republic. In the current situation, we know, and we have repeatedly proved, that we can only make partial progress, because the biggest expense the Catalan society has is advancing against a state. Independence is not just a wish, a dream, for many of us: it is a necessity because this country can get out, because the people of this country can live better. We know – we have been able to prove once and for all – that within the Spanish State it is simply impossible, because they do not want or can change, the State is irreformable. And many generations before we Catalans have tried, but the Spanish State does not want to be reformed. Simply, because it has been built from the tax, and because the values of plurality, the values of negotiation and respect for minorities have not been the predominant values of the elites that control this state for generations and generations. They're a lot more honor than a pact, to win than to convince, to impose than to agree. and we have had a clear show with the investment negotiation or with the same judicial process against independence. But..., it's more: the current state, controlled and directed by the 78th rule, direct heir to the previous rule, is absolutely immobilised; it's the state of privileges, oligopolises, which defends the interests of a few over the interests of the majority. We see it with the bill for the most expensive light in all of Europe, we see it with cases like the Beaver, we see it with the defense hanging from the benches instead of defending people, we see it every time that there is a business in the Bernabéu lot. And, once again, we have been able to show that it is authoritarian and repressive: anyone who wants to end up with a established regime will suffer the consequences of a fierce repression. Unreformable, immobilist and authoritarian; this is the State in which we live today. Independence is the mechanism of survival and of changing the things that we Catalans have: either we build the Catalan Republic or we won't get out of it. And that's exactly what we've done: independence, as I used to say, is the only move that can make this status quo thunder. In the face of these socialist immobilists, who benefit from this status quo, those who do not want to change it, we are decisively leading the most profound and renewing social change in the 21st century Europe. Independence is the only real threat to the privileges of the 78th rule; that is why, in the name of the unit of Spain, it has suffered and suffered, and will suffer, persecution and repression without contemplation of the State. And here we can have a share of the way shared with all those who also want to end these privileges. If, for decades, the majority Catalanism has provided endless proposals that they wanted to modernise, that they wanted to democratise, that they wanted to find the place of Catalonia in a state that, as we say, did not want to be reformed or respect its own plurality, today we can say that the most important contribution that we can make from independence to the unity of the Spanish society is precisely to end with the 78 rule, with this authoritarian, unjust, repressive and democratic regime. We can walk folded, today, with those who do not share the dream of independence but who want to drop the 78th rule, because helping us will be helping in their struggle, because the achievement of our yearnings of independence will also bring them closer to their goals. Not in doubt. Because we don't want to change one flag for another; we want to build a fairer, more freer, more equal society, and we know how to do it: at the polls, and overflowing democratically and peacefully the State. And the repression was not the answer, always the repression, because they have nothing else. That's why we know we're getting out. They will not always be able to maintain the current levels of repression, because they are not beginning to suffer some consequences at the reputational level. We know that if we persist, we will win – the Oriol Junqueras also told us in a letter this week – ; we will probably have to enter a phase where we will need to combine resistance – as during the franchise – with the reinforcement and reinforcement of the movement to take the initiative again. Building from resistance, advancing from democracy, as we have always done. We must convert the pain and injustice of repression that prints the State into a photograph to teach internally, internationally, and turn it into strength and engine to advance. Now that he was two years old on September 20, some have remembered that that day was the beginning of the definite triumph of the U of October. We all knew, that day, they saw the reaction of the people, that the State had lost the battle to prevent the U of October. We suffer for our fellows and fellows in custody, and some of them are here with us today. We were indignant about the violation of his privacy and the communication processing that the judiciary and the Civil Guard were doing of those records and of those arrests. And we went out to the street, peacefully and civically, to express our feelings, for the most part, for the fact that some have built a fictional and false relationship that has been used to set up a judicial charade; for the most part, for the most part, for the most insistent and insistent. We went out on the street peacefully and civically – and I can also remember it – to block the step to security forces who wanted to enter, rape, theirs from a democratic party without judicial order. The provocation to the company and company of the CUP, which was a provocation to all democrats, also formed part of this farce, of this general cause, of this attempt to demonize and end a democratic and peaceful political movement such as independence. But on September 20th, despite the patience that he generated and that he still carries in many of us today, it was also the observation for the State that he would not marry. That's why that date is also symbolic for whom they want us under, because that day they won't forgive us either. The repression did not begin on September 20, as it will not end with the Supreme Court's judgment, but the two are very symbolic dates. The chance – or not – has caused the proximity of the anniversary of one and the event of the other to surprise us with another repressive maneuver of the State. Two days ago nine people were held in an orchestrated race from the National Audience and executed for the Civil Guard. Today we have them incommunicado in a quarter for which he coordinated the stomachs and the rape of the U of October, for which they orchestrated the only rape that existed: the Civil Guard and the Spanish National Police. And these people today are appointed for the same judicial apparatus that held Tamara in secret proceedings, accused of rebellion and terrorism. And we're taking pictures and news with countdowns. And they're old eyes, and they're too many entrances at home at other hours of the morning, with sleeping creatures: gratuitous rape and police brutality. It's all tuff, one more time, of police media operation to criminalize a peaceful movement, to make us, because we scare each other. They are not going out to make anyone believe in the existence of violence or riots by the late 17th, and desperately seek this violence. They need it to justify what is unjustifiable: the persecution of the citizenry for its ideology, the will to maintain a rule – the 78 rule – over any attempt to reform, revise or overcome, the belief that to defend the sacred unity of the Spanish nation all goes: lying, falsehoods, state operations and, when it comes to the case, brutality – also brutality. Every day they show us that we need to shield ourselves more and more of our rights, because they are repeatedly vulnerable. Nationals, civilians and politicians too; today you are no more an example. They want the criminalization of independence, inoculate us to create a bile relation at the gates of the feeling. Let us shield our rights: the right to freedom of expression, of demonstration, of ideological freedom, of justice, and we will keep it on the table until the good of our eyes falls. The resolutions of the UN Labour Group against Arbitrary Detention must be completed, so that the judicial abuses of pre-trial detention can be brought to an end, and compensatory mechanisms can be brought down for those who suffer unjustly and who end up absolved. Immediate release of prisoners and return of exiles, archiving all causes against independence. Tomorrow we'll take all this to the plenary, and we'll do it as many times as anyone else, sovereignly. Who will be there, defending all the civil and political rights of this country? There we are, there we are and there we are. And that's exactly why we're taking the self-criticism too today. We have seen performances and events the last few days – also in our home – that have not liked us enough, that we have not felt comfortable. And we won't stop saying it: it's important to see where we're wrong and to say it, and to correct it, by no means, by face, because that's, too, the difference between the new country we want. With the judgment of the U of October we have to enter a new phase, a new phase that allows us to move forward. We need to move, as we have also heard from the President, from a more defensive phase to taking the initiative again. A phase to regain strength and which must allow us to prepare for our own struggle, which we want – as always – democratic, but we want – also – decided. Because if one thing is clear to the Republican Left, it's that we really want to win. No false promises, no empty proclamations, no smoke: we want to build a winning project that allows us to achieve freedom. Today we know that it is not a problem of will and courage; it is a problem of strength. And our bad strength in the country's cohesion, and it must rest on a social majority throughout the territory. We want to be more to win over democracy. Exceeding 50_per_cent in some elections is a tape that will not be enough for itself, but that is necessary for us to move forward. We need to be able to demonstrate a majority to obtain international recognition; we want to be so many that we make independence inevitable by mediating the exercise of self-determination. As more extensive, as more diverse, as more people agglutini, more consistent and more unstoppable will be our project. The answer to the judgment must help us to get the State to negotiate: to negotiate a political solution that must pass, without any doubt, for the exercise of the right to self-determination. We know now that two years have passed, that it will be necessary to go back to the polls to referencing the will of the citizens of Catalonia. And in this I believe that today we agree with most of the political movement: the reference to self-determination is the best way to legitimize the republic and achieve independence, and so they also assign it to us at the international level. And we know that it will be necessary to force the State to accept it by using the path of institutional dialogue, but not only; that it will be necessary to work many fronts at a time: mobilization and civil disobedience can become just as unpredictable as the institutional dialogue, the same way that it can deepen the relationships and opportunities that we also have at international level. We know that in order to achieve this, we will have to be even stronger, in institutions and also in society. We must continue to build a peaceful solution based on vote and democracy. We must continue with the same determination. We must continue tirelessly on a path that we know you won't return. And we have to do with open and cross-cutting independence, strategically aligned and able to weave alliances with self-determinationists. We need to get back to a strategic consensus so we can move forward. This is the front we have now and today. We will be independent and peaceful and democratic. Our strategy now passes, therefore, to impinge on the Spanish State, and to do so against its own will, to a peaceful and democratic exit, which will inevitably pass through the exercise of the right to the self-determination of the Catalan people. And how will we force the State into a peaceful and democratic solution? Through four complementary axes and which we have already pointed out: over and above democracy – they grow and grow at every new election date, feeling each time more –; working the international public opinion, explaining how it is this State and what it is able to do to defend the unity of the kingdom, always seeking complicity also out; reducing every day the economic dependence of the State favoring exports and working the strength of its own economy, and betting, as we have always done, for mobilization. We have to go over the ballot box. We need to explain and convince ourselves that the only possible future for this country is the independence of a state that cuts us off. We need to get stronger where we're most comfortable at the polls. The solutions can only be political, democratic and peaceful, because the debate is political, and we will not close before a false and unjust judicial report. We're not hanging on. We are exactly where we are, with our objects intact and with more gain than ever to continue. Freedom, self-determination and independence. Amnesty, referendum and republic. This is our full road to build a better society, a republic that I didn't leave behind. We'll work for amnesty in case the sentence is guilty, because that's the only way we'll be able to move forward on the political scene. And we know that we will end up voting, because democracy is the best way to solve this issue. The recipe is, therefore, for resistance before repression and exercise of the democratic force. We will not rest until victory, so you can be sure of it, because, as Oriol Junqueras says, if we persist, we will win. We'll keep going. We'll win. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.58.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Albert Batet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.59.0	Many thanks, very honorable President Torrent. Many honourable President Torra, Councillors and Councillors, Members and Members, also Members who cannot be present in this Chamber, who are members of this Parliament, such as President Puigdemont, such as Councillor Comín and Councillor Romeva, who I am convinced will follow us, such a day as today forty-six years ago they detained Salvador Puig Antich, on September 25, 1973. They took liberty and life, accused of being the author of the offences that caused the death of Anguas Barragán and of having participated in a bank robbery. Later he was tried in a war council and sentenced to death. He was the last death penalty victim in Spain, the year 1974. He was twenty-five years old. After many years of personal struggle, in silence, the family was able to demonstrate, from our witnesses, how the summary was altered and how they disappeared proof that they could have avoided the death sentence. Tanmateix, today the Spanish State and its Supreme Court continue without wanting to review the process, in the same way that it has taken forty-four years to decide whether or not the dictator Franco of the Valley of the Fallen. In Catalonia, in exchange, on 4 July 2017 the Government of President Puigdemont published the Law 11/2017 at the official button of the Government of Catalonia, with which the Parliament approved the legal reparation of the victims of the franchise, including Salvador Puig Antich. From here I want to send a strong and felt embrace to the families of all the reprisals of the Francoism, to all the families that still don't know where their parents, their seas, their opinions and their ancestors are buried. The case of Salvador Puig Antich is an example of how he acts in terms of justice and democracy in Spain and how he acts in terms of justice and democracy in Catalonia. Spain and Catalonia, so close and so far. Of the death of Salvador Puig Antich forty-five years ago, but of the case of Tamara Carrasco only a few months ago. The Tamara is a vein of Viladecans, of a working family of Viladecans. On April 10, 2018, the mad Tamara detained for the Civil Guard at her home for a alleged crime of terrorism, an accusation based on an audio of WhatsApp, was only talking about an indefinite general vagueness. It was pre-emptively undertaken in Madrid and later the prosecution the charge of terrorism, without providing evidence, to prepare an attempt against a barracks of the Civil Guard in Barcelona and to create a cream of flags in Balsareny. Until May 30th of this 2019 he was forbidden to leave Viladecans, confined to his home. Can anyone imagine how he changed his life to Tamara Carrasco? Can anyone imagine how it affected her and her family, this situation? Forty-five years have passed between Salvador Puig Antich and Tamara Carrasco. Two different cases in two different periods and different contexts, but they have a common denominator, a common element: they are victims of the Spanish State's repressive judicial system, which then and now continues to work the same way, making disappear and inventing evidence, creating false relationships to alter reality. So close and so far. So, this morning's dills produced arrests of independenceists, just like Tamara Carrasco, allegedly accused of terrorism. As Winston Churchill used to say, democracy is that I'm cheating on you at the door in the morning, and you know that he's the delivery man on the driveway. Two years ago – it's been too long – the Spanish State has been calling us to the door in the morning, and it's not the distributor of the bed. Independence suffers from an unjust persecution that is totally intolerable. Two social and civic leaders in prison, like Jordi Sànchez and Jordi Cuixart, for having called a demonstration, which they see raising their family; these days we have seen how Jordi Cuixart could have been a father and only had six hours to see his child just born. The President of the Parliament of Catalonia, President Carme Forcadell, in prison, also to allow a parliamentary debate. The legitimate government of the U of October, in prison and exile. Vice President Junqueras and Councillors Turull, Romeva, Forn, Bassa, Rull, in prison; or also in exile: Councillors Puig, Comín, Serret, Ponsatí and President Puigdemont, as the rest of the government members prosecuted. Deputies of this Parliament, in exile, such as Marta Rovira or Anna Gabriel. Members of this Parliament, accused. His companies, as is the case with Lluís Guinó, as is the case with Josep Maria Jové and Lluís Salvado. All cases in Jutjat 13: policy, technical and media directors. The summit of the Mossos d'Esquadra, brought to the National Audience : Major Trapero, the secretary general Cèsar Puig, the director of the Police and different commanders of the Mossos d'Esquadra. People from the personal background of President Puigdemont, who, to help him, are being persecuted, as is the case with Jami Matamala. Or why not remember President Mas, Joana Ortega, Councillor Irene Rigau and Councillor Homs, also now with a ruling of the Court of Auditors asking you a lot of money for 9 November. It's been two years since Spain repressed. And it represses both political and civil society, such as Adri Carrasco, such as Tamara, as in Valtònyc, and so many anonymous city drawings that are being persecuted. Today, a court hearing was held for a publication of a book by the U of October, Where is Estonia? You're the same today. And this, with some policies making more arsonist statements of the complicity of some media, and, here's the story, the headline: "Independence is violent, "Independenceists are terrorists. Let me be clear, let me be very clear: we are people of pau – we are people of pau – the independence movement is peaceful and not violent... [[Greetings.]] Being an independentist is no crime. We just want to live in peace and freedom. We only want justice and a free Catalonia. We just want to respect and democracy. We want a better country for 7 million Catalans and Catalans. Mrs. Roldán, you have had a full speech of thirty minutes to apologize, and we have seen a totally contradictory attitude respect – you did not want to do it, and you did not do it – of the statements of the dilluns, which are totally unacceptable. His veiled accusations to President Torra cannot be allowed or tolerated. He's passed as many limits as possible. We know that elections are coming and that you are campaigning thanks to Catalonia, but in politics it's not all right, Mrs. Roldán. We ask you to rectify and I ask you to apologize. If he doesn't, he knows that we are going to ask for his reprobation as a spokesman for a parliamentary group here, the Parliament of Catalonia, because his words are totally unacceptable. [[Greetings.]] We also expect the support of different policies, of different democratic political forces in this Parliament, of the Socialist Party and the commons, and of some who have also rectified and deleted their tweets because they are anti-presumption of innocence. Will you tolerate Mrs. Roldan making these kinds of claims? [[Pause.]] Prou lies, prou repression, prou false reports, prou repression of 155 and the king. Don't they have any other proposals for Catalonia? They only have the repression? So close and so far. President Tora said: The State uses justice and the police to create a fictitious rapport of rape. Let's not be fooled: the only rape that took place in Catalonia was that of the U of October, the only rape that citizens have suffered in Catalonia was one U of October. He didn't forget or forgive. We'll remember all our lives, from what happened on October 1st of the year 2017 here in Catalonia. Because if one thing we have clear in Catalonia is pacifism and democracy, and respect for election results, and respect for election results. Spain has failed to respect the electoral results, the sovereign decisions taken by the Parliament of Catalonia and the people of Catalonia during these last fifteen years. And we start with the autonomy statute of the year 2006, status referendum, fallen for the Constitutional Court. Or the 2015 Junts for the Yes. O The reference of the U of October; nor has it accepted its outcome. Or the elections of 21 December, which revalidated the U of October referendum – preventing, for example, the return of President Puigdemont. But it is that, moreover, they have suspected elected deputies, from these last three summonses, to the Congress of Deputies, and they have altered major parliaments, as here, to the Parliament of Catalonia. Or, for example, governors, such as the case of Quim Forn at the Barcelona Assembly. Or, for example, with the entry of Vice-President Junqueras, Councillor Romeva and President Puigdemont to the European Parliament, who were unable to represent their thousands of voters in these European Parliament elections. They will go against all of us and every one of us, accusing us, if only, of violence, if only, of terrorism – if only, if they made it up – when the independence movement is and will be clearly peaceful. In Catalonia we have repeatedly committed ourselves to non-violence. In change, the Kingdom of Spain has never – ever – committed itself to expelling the use of violence to prevent independence. You know well, we've had it. They already exercised it in a strong way when we made the U of October. Moreover, members of the Socialist Party and the People's Party, who were willing to do everything, and even to pass the limits that they demanded, to defend the Spanish unit, who were willing to pay any price. But I warn you, we won't give up, we don't have to, we won't fail. You are willing to pay any price to avoid the independence of Catalonia, not us. That's just why we really want independence, to live in a democratic and social right state. So close and so far. We do not have Cap Villarejo, nor do we have the State, nor the CNI, nor the prosecution, nor the Supreme Court nor the Constitutional Court. We do not have a brutal war, we respect democracy. Because this is Mr. Villarejo making a letter that you don't have, it's well portrayed, this great Spanish state, it's right. What guarantees can they have? Out of everything, there, from the Corinna to the Noos, passing through the Daesh, tempts to Barcelona, etcetera. Mother of God Lord, what state of right is the Spanish State– what state of right–? What guarantees? We don't have or want any secrets from the state. Look, when you lose a father, you're an orphan; when you lose the woman, you're a widower; when you lose a child, there's no word in the dictionary that I can define. This sentence of Javier Martínez, father of Xavi, the child of Rubí died at the time at Rambla on August 17, 2017..., in Javier, his father, decided to undertake a struggle that today continues: the struggle for the truth. And it's a question – and we're asking ourselves a lot, too – why there are political parties that don't want to do a committee to investigate attempts at the Congress of Deputies, just to know what happened. While here in the Parliament of Catalonia there is a committee of inquiry into the storms of August in Barcelona and in Cambrils, People's Party, Citizens and Socialist Party have vetoed it at the Congress of Deputies. And Spanish justice, in the National Audience, refuses to investigate the links between CNI and Ripoll's imam because it does not consider it necessary. So close and so far. And so near and so far, too, in the differences, above all – and today President Torra said in a very clear way – at the time of political iron, as we understand Catalan and Catalan politics. No one can escape that a year ago here in Catalonia we had a very difficult situation, a very difficult political situation: we had applied 155, we already lived with the foot of repression to the mountain. And, despite these difficulties, the independence parties decided, by responsibility, to govern, effectively and autonomously, but to govern. By responsibility, to give answers to the needy of the citizenry, to recover the institutions, despite the effects of 155, which still suffer; despite the economic intervention of the Government of Catalonia, as President Torra explained in the morning; despite the judicial pressure on the security bodies; despite the accusations; despite the judges of the Presidents of the Generality and the citizens, despite all the limitations that the Spanish State imposes on us our willingness to act as the government, to Catalonia's women government and advance, by responsibility. And while we look at and see, with surprise and stupefaction, how you escape in a totally irresponsible way the repts we have as a society and allow the luxury of not being governed, and allow the luxury of calling back elections. And all to avoid the dialect, and all to avoid a rapporteur, and all to avoid a coalition government, and all to avoid talking about Catalonia, and all to try to avoid talking about a solution to a political conflict. It is only aesthetic; there is nothing, only defense of the unit of Spain. The Spanish State prefers elections to the dialect, the Spanish State prefers elections to be political, the Spanish State prefers elections to find a solution to the political conflict that exists in Catalonia with the Spanish State. And while the Spanish State, yes, it continues to fail; a failure that, when they listen, takes and fills up many fields and we can... in all areas, and then I'll get into the detail. And here we decided to make a government, and so could we decide to make you. And then they come here today and they make speeches, as did Mrs. Roldán, as did Mr. Iceta, as did the Lord of the People's Party... Escort, you don't have the authority to speak of responsibility. [[remorse of the voice]] You do not have the authority to speak of political stability, you do not have the authority to speak of government action, you do not have the authority to accuse the Government of the Government of Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.60.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.61.0	...of instability and inaction. [[Greetings.]] If you have responsibilities there, you prefer to go to elections not to talk about the conflict with Catalonia. I escorted, in three years, four elections to the Spanish State – four elections – two motions of censure. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, here in Catalonia there was also, but thanks to you, that they applied the 155 and called in an illegitimate way elections to the Parliament of Catalonia, so there were elections. [[Greetings.]] It's more: motion of censure that thrives thanks to the independence vote, and then what have you done, Socialist Party gentlemen? What did they do during this year and into the government? I say this to you: a council of ministers in Barcelona – that's right, Barcelona col·lapsada. And what did they decide in this council of ministers? Change the name of the Prat airport to say « Josep Tarradellas. Many thanks for your great leadership towards Catalonia during this year and a half, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. [[Greetings.]] Mirin, you know, together for Catalonia, we'll make a fool of ourselves. [[Widow's remorse.]] As President Puigdemont said yesterday...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.62.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.63.0	...you don't respect us. So we'll make each other respect each other. To Catalans and Catalans the ballot boxes please us. Perhaps there is some exception, such as the spokesman of the Socialist Party, Mrs. Eva Granados, who says that she believes that it should not be the citizenry that addresses such important questions as the right of self-determination; a strange way of hearing democracy, Mrs. Eva Granados, must convince me. But, in general, Catalans like us in the polls and we always think that they are an opportunity, if you respect the outcome of the elections, if you respect the mandate of the people who vote in the elections, not if you stop and get through because you can develop. And then it's politics, whether we agree or not, to give answers to citizens. We do not have for the pact, we have for the conjunction of the independenceists, we do not have for the dialect, we do not have for the governments of the coalition; it is more, I believe that with the different municipal pacts we have shown that even we do not even have to agree with you, the Socialist Party, the independenceists, because we are people of responsibility, of pact and of dialogue, and of political will. In change, in Madrid, no politics, no pact, no dialect or coalition governments. So close and so far. Do you know what the consequences are? Limit the executive task, limit the legislative task. And as if Spanish was so good, you! The 98_per_cent debt on GDP; a 14_per_cent turn of the highest in the European Union; the third state that grows less from the point of view of productivity; the pension fund, bankrupt; school children everywhere. Listen, as if we don't have any problems. But, yeah, it didn't happen, all this stuff on Mr. Borrell's pamphlet from Global Spain doesn't come out, does it? That's all Mr. Borrell's pamphlet doesn't show up. And we're also moving to Catalonia, and today the president thinks he's denoting it in a very important way. Thanks also to the efforts of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, its institutions and its people. We can be proud of Catalonia's work, of the entrepreneurial people, of those who raise the blind every day, of Catalonia's innovation, which seeks excellence, of Catalonia which works for the present, to build a future better. This is and will be the Catalonia that goes forward. President Tora has not given concrete data: as the Catalan economy grows, as exports grow, as the rate of growth has decreased all this time, the different plans in the social field, as we have returned the external payments to the civil service, the effort that has been made to all the councils from the Administration, as we address the issue of climate change, a challenge that we have as the Government and as the country, to which we intend to respond, as we also address all the new necessary investments, such as the 5G corridor. Yes, the 5G runner, a super-important reversal for Catalonia's economic development, and, in change, you forbid it. This is the reality: a government that has plans to move forward and a Spanish state that is a commodity, a contribution to the will to develop a better model of society and country for all Catalans and the conjunction of the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans and Catalans. So close and so far – so close and so far. And here try to move forward. I'm done. This is the Catalonia of work, and this is also the Catalonia of pride, the Catalonia that works because it has a project: independence. Because President Torra said it perfectly this morning, because the fiscal deficit is a social deficit and that is why independence is the best social project for all Catalans and Catalans. Catalonia that does not forget from day to day, but also from the time that more than 2 million Catalans fixed October 1, 2017, Catalonia that needs to leave Espanya in order to be able to fully enter the 21st century. Two years after the beginning of the crackdown on the Catalans' yearning for freedom, we are now facing the Supreme Court's ruling against the government, the institutions of this country and the social leaders who have captivated collective mobilization. There have been two very hard years, not two easy years, for many people who have suffered in the first person, for their families, also very hard collectively for independence; two years in which the State has not proposed anything for Catalonia, more than maintaining repression – so has the People's Party as the Socialist Party – and the denial of the right of self-determination; two years lost to solve politically a political problem that is solved with a political dialogue rather than with the aesthetics of the dialogue. But the feeling, whatever it is, has to open a new stage, the stage in which united and determined independence will resume the initiative as the U of October did. We need to get closer, stronger, more prepared. We must once again explain why we want an independent state, a state in which, from respect for all the fundamental rights, we will build a more free, fairer, fairer, more equitable country, a state of solidarity with the peoples that are engulfing it, working together with the global reptiles of a new humanism before worrying situations such as the situation of migrants and the struggle against climate change. We want independence because we want a Catalonia of the best in a world of the best. And in this new stage that will mark the verdict against the U of October we will redraw a unitary path, because we have to continue denouncing the repressive front of the Spanish State, but also because we have to make the new Catalan State possible. I assure you that we will find the way, that we will find the way because the majority will express their determination in the ballot box. Spain and Catalonia, so close and unfortunately so far, because the light always wins in the dark. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.64.0	Thank you, Congressman. After the group's interventions, the president of the Generalitat has the word again, and to answer these interventions, the group's interventions have been completed. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.65.0	Nice late again. I'll answer each of the groups, as I usually do. Look, Mrs. Roldán, I was listening to you today, and I remembered that day when Mrs. Arrimadas sadly took her from the chamber, when I tried to convey to her what this type of position meant, this type of speech as you do, the one that leaves these speeches, which is the no-res, the absolute no-res. Today we have found ourselves before a speech of his evil, repeated; if they allow me, therefore, the expression, of an absolute disfocus, but, yes, with the classics, already usual, hits of Ciutadans of the « chiringuito, of the « Slovene way, of the « pyroman, of the « couptist. It wouldn't be a Ciutadans speech if you didn't exit these hits at each speech, actually. But I'd like to answer some of these expressions that you used, because it seems to me that you can't let go of a democratic parliament in your democracy. You say: "No, it is that you live in an imaginary country. There is nothing to imagine in prison and exile, Mrs Roldán – there is nothing to imagine. And where there are representatives chosen for the people of Catalonia, whether in prison or exile, the President of the Generality will be there, and I will visit them. I'll go there as often as I can, and I'll make it clear to them. He's made another personal mistake again today, at least he respects me. So as the last session you were talking about the cancer, today you also dared to talk about the disabilities and turned me, if I may, into a situation that I personally have to report again. He never tells me that I have no empathy or that I don't do everything I can for people with disabilities in this country, I never tell myself again. [[Greetings.]] I've been told I've been re-reported for the banner of political prisoners and exiles from the generality balcony. I had no doubt that they would. I hope you don't have any of what my position will be respecting to keep the banner at the balcony of the Generality. [[Greetings.]] You often talk about – you often talk about – "attacks, referring to the Government of Catalonia that, democratically chosen, with a democratic mandate, with all democratic votes, pulled forward the self-determination referendum. And, of course, there's a problem, really, conceptually, in this matter. It's what's weirder, what's democratic, isn't it? Something's going on here. When you respect the popular will, how can you speak of ‘strikes'? Don't use that expression anymore, because it's not an expression... [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm sorry, I'm talking to you, and now you're listening. [[Greetings.]] No, because I have the bad luck, as they have the advisors on the bench, to be very close to the Ciutadans Group, and I assure you that they do not stop talking, is that it is something that..., really, courtesy of Parliament, I ask you that, if you want to comment, you make them in an acceptable mood, I would just miss, but that, please, you will comment that they are usually very unpleasant? , housing emergence? So they look for you and at least they don't get to us. [[Widow's remorse.]] But it's true, I'm very sorry for the poor counselors and counselors who are here, the one who must endure. On the facts of the proceedings, I will only refer to a subject which seems very relevant to me, and I would like to recall the statement made by Judges for Democracy questioning the prosecutor's writing. It seems very uplifting to me, because he's wondering if this prosecution has been made. In change, you're already giving it all away. A deputy from this house said: "There are bombs, and then delete the tweet. But today you've been talking about rubber-2, you've been talking about terrorism. They can't make it this way, save it, against the right and the presumption of innocence. Respect everyone's rights. As we respect yours, the constitutionalists. We respect your rights. Is there any of you in prison or exile? – I ask: is there any of you in prison or exile? Because, of course, when it turns out that you usually always say that constitutionalists happen to be so badly... there are people here who are being prosecuted, who are in prison for two years, two years of pre-trial detention. Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart, social leaders who simply called the yes for the reference – called the yes for the reference. Two years in prison! It's just that you're not tolerable. Therefore, respect everyone, respect human rights. I'm done. Then we'll talk about two issues, which you also talked about, about the plan of government, but I wanted to make this first intervention on more political issues. This photograph of the storm. The truth is, I don't think I can talk about cartels this time. This time this photograph should not have exhibited, you, never – never –, Mrs. Roldán – ever, ever. (Applause.) Because this association that you are claiming to make independence equal to terrorism, equal to ETA, is a huge, huge – huge irresponsibility, for which are the consciences of this country. He says to me: "No, you listen, you don't give answers, you don't appear... Miri, at the time that I am president, I have made seven appearances in this Parliament: one on political and judicial topicality; one on the working conditions of public workers and the functioning of public services; one on the premise; one on the composition and structure of the government, and one to account for the first year of office. Five debates: one on the orientation of general policy; one on the prioritization of the social agenda and recovery of coexistence; one on childhood; one on the cop to democracy – cop to democracy – and another on real Catalonia. Memorable titles and that future researchers and historians who are capbussin in the control sessions, in the official diaries of the Parliament will say: "But these people... But if you were voting. Is Catalonia real? So what did they have to talk about? In other words, we'll be carrying a considerable curse. Yeah, if we count the investiture, and if we count today's. I never love myself and am always at Parliament's disposal, which is clear. I, two, on the waiting lists. Indeed, I want to repeat them again: Catalans greatly value public health services, according to the Plaensa health barometer. At the care level, we ensure the resources and services best suited to each person. We've improved in the past few years. About repeating the figures: the year 2015, 87_percent of patients intervened in the stipulated time; the year 2018 completed it in 94_percent of citizens. It is important to move these figures to the city, so that we see that we are moving forward, that we are winning. And that we didn't get to 100 per cent? Certainly. What's to get better? We certainly need to improve, but we are capdavanters, too, in guarantees in time of access. I repeat: we guarantee more than the State in many of the operations. We guarantee a time of access to oncological surgeries of twenty-two days, when there are no surgeries in Spain, or we guarantee access to heart interventions in the next few days, when in the Spanish State they are one hundred and forty days. And we will work to do it and to dig it more, of course, with us procedures with guarantee – quickly, three procedures with guaranteed waiting time of one hundred and forty days–, we priority criteria and a unique list. We are working, and above all, on the issue of health, education and social welfare, which are the country's priorities. Mr. Iceta. Obviously, we won't agree. You think this is a disoriented government, divided, in failure, by weaknesses in management. I have tried, for two hours, to explain to him all the contrary; I did not get out. In any case, you were also talking to me about some questions, weren't you? , the CEO's inquiries. What does it look like if we do the reference and get out of these questions? (Applause.) If we don't... No, it's that, besides, I take into account the following: look, it turns out that all self-determination references made democratically, both in Scotland and Quebec, have been lost, the independenceists have lost it, I mean there's a lot to win for the constitutionalists. Take on the democratic challenge. Mrs. Granados, it seems to you that Catalans cannot decide on this question, take this democratic challenge. Take advantage of the inquests. We believe that there is this social majority in the country and we will fight for it. But we fight nobly, we fight democratically, we fight with some ballot boxes in front. You, Mr. Iceta, also spoke to me about the appeal of the European Court of Human Rights. I must answer the resolution of the United Nations Arbitrary Detention Working Group, which incompletes the Spanish State (Applause) – which incompletes the Spanish State – and which obliges the Spanish Government to advertise it, in addition – to advertise it. There is also a topic that comes up frequently. He says: "No, you are the president of one part of the country, of the independenceists, only, which never happens to the Spanish president. That is to say, the Spanish presidents can always speak on behalf of Spain; the Catalan presidents always speak only on behalf of part of the country. No, I don't accept it – I don't accept it. I speak on behalf of all Catalans, this government works on behalf of all Catalans and seeks solutions for all Catalans. And I end up with a good point, I'm sure, and I accept it, I accept the two points he said. The climate emergency: it seems important to me that this is one of the great consensuss of the country, it is true, not only because the young woman asked us, but because we have the right and obligation that the young woman has a country like which we have enjoyed. Therefore, I am holding hands with all groups in the room because on this issue of climate emergence we come to great consensus. I think you've done well to put this topic in the middle of the debate and I want to thank you there. Now, I also remind you that it was precisely the PSOE government that brought an appeal to the Constitutional Court on the Climate Change Act. Therefore, we should try to clarify what we want to do, the Government of Catalonia, about the climate change, because, clearly, if then, what we want our government to suspect and send us to the Constitutional Court, we would not gain much. I on the subject of English, totally agree– totally agree. I also know of those who believe that it is a fault in this country that we are not doing well, that we are struggling. And I noticed that; I had the opportunity to work a couple of years abroad and the first few months were not easy people, for me, I mean I wouldn't like a worker or student in Catalonia who wants to work abroad... so I can do it with full guarantees. This is a global world, we have to be on the rise, we have to dominate català, castella y angles, and we have to do it with the level that a country like ours wishes to have. So, going with these two themes. I think it's two very important, country issues: climate change and English in a different way than we've been dealing with so far, and I was commenting on it with the Education Advisor, who thought it was also a topic we can put ourselves on. Catalonia in Comú May. How's it going? (Laughter.) I mean, no, it's just... it's just, I'm sorry. Well, no, of course, you God: "Catalunya goes badly. And I'm still thinking that Catalonia is fine – Catalonia is fine. But it's that, besides, why do I think it's worth saying, that Catalonia is fine? Because we need to send a message of trust to our citizens. That is true, because we must never fool the citizens – never – but when we have the figures we have, when this country has made the effort that has made the last five, six years, to reverse a very complicated situation, to reverse a situation that I assure you, Mrs Albiach, that we do not want to return any more, that is to the situation of the retails, but that now, with a considerable effort and a considerable effort of Catalan citizenship we have managed to recover the macroxifres... And I accept that these macroxifres have not been able to bring them down to the city, and I accept that I am as concerned as you are, so, for the poor, for the welfare, for all those people who run the risk of not being able to take the same opportunities and, finally, to unhook the social ascent that has worked in Catalonia. And it's a subject that worries me enormously – enormously. And we are not able, despite this change that has occurred in the country, despite this economic recovery, to move to all of the city – to all of the city – this change. Poor child, god, precariousness, certainly, the welfare. But I want to remember a few words from Muriel Casals, and that's it, and once and for all, and I will always remember: "To have a welfare state we must have a state, we must be able to guarantee to ourselves that we have all the resources, and no longer only economic, but also political, legislative. I'm grateful you're in favour of rights and freedoms. I have never doubted the Group of Catalonia in Comú We can, that they are on the side of rights and freedoms, that they are in favor of the freedom of political prisoners – I have never doubted that. I absolutely agree. But ask them a favor: talk to their Spanish associates too, that they are here too. There were some unfortunate statements by Mr. Pablo Iglesias about Article 155; I hope you do not share them. I'm sorry to disagree with you about other figures. Tourism grows, exports grow, foreign investment grows: it's data, it's second semester data. And, finally, I think that both the vice president and myself, as in all the meetings we have had to talk about the assumptions, no one – at least I can assure you, and I would be failing to complete the instructions that both the vice president and I have given for the whole subject of the negotiations on the assumptions – has never talked about going back to any stage of detail. On the contrary: we want to return to the preview of the clippings, and this is what this project of assumption allows us. And I invite them to work there, to work there together. We started before the election period a few months ago..., which I also thought was the election period; certainly, I was completely wrong, because we were already there again... So I invited them to work together. It wasn't possible at the time. Let's work there now: these 2,500_million more euros, which allow us to allocate them to social policies, practically in their integrity. He helped us get them out of the way. To the companies of the CUP. Exercise the right to self-determination, amnesty for all causes, phonenal rights, republican proclamation and democratic resolution of conflict, internationalization, popular empowerment. What exactly separates us? Aren't we here? Is independence not here? Because I would be very wrong if independence did not share these principles. What's going on with us? That it's hard for us to land on these concepts, certainly. But what seems vital to me, what seems very important to me to hear is that these great ideas, which are the engine of change from which it will come, we share them. And, therefore, I wanted to tell you to land them, land them together. You're the one to do it, aren't you? This October we have to do it, we have to land these principles so that we can pull forward. You also spoke of an arrest that took place today on behalf of the Squad Mosses. The moves act by court orders and, even though we don't like what they order, they have a legal obligation to do anything that they're ordered to do. You know perfectly well, that's what it is. In these moments the justice we have in operation is the Spanish justice. Our responsibility is to change it, it's to change this Spanish legislation, huh? , for the legislation of the independent republic of Catalonia, which I hope is neutral and independent, and above all respectful with human rights – above all respectful with human rights. But as long as we do not succeed in building this new reality, with a separation of powers, with a just and independent justice, we will find ourselves with these situations in which, by orders of the prosecution, or by orders of the courts, we are ordered to make certain activities. I don't want to live in a country where no one is detained because of what he thinks or his political ideas. I think it's clear, and my trajectory I think I believe, and that's why I struggle because my country is independent. To Mr. Fernández, of the People's Party. I always hope I love your intervention, believe me, huh? because it's a time for those who say, "Well, let's see where you're going to go today with Mr. Fernández, because you're going in like a time tunnel species, and you say... We've gone into the time tunnel and we've gone to the pujolism, to the defense of pujolism. You came here and made a defense of those years of Pujolism – yes, yes – said: "What a good thing we were those years of Pujolism and what happened now, where it all seems to be unpacked, huh? You're breaking her up. So miri, it turns out that it respects the percentages of GDP of Catalonia, all, since the time of Jordi Pujol, we have kept them. We are more or less alike, it is Madrid that has disappeared, it is the effect of capitality Madrid, it is this centralism of Madrid that offends us – it is this centralism of Madrid that offends us. And who's down there? The rest of the autonomous communities. And I would just like to remember – and I always insist, you know, I always put the same jifra –: 2013, 23,5_per_cent d'atur. God-in-law, huh? , the situation in this country: 23.5 atatur, we are in a difficult situation. Where are we now? At 11,2_per_cent. And we'll go down, the year you see, under the 10. And all this with independent governments. So maybe – as I tried to defend and maybe I didn't get along well – wanting Catalonia's independence and managing your country well is a solid and reasonable option. And that's what the governments have done: the government of President Mas, the government of President Puigdemont, and, if I may, the government that we share together for Catalonia and the Republican Left and that I have the honor to preside. You spoke of the "pedagogical value of the law. Clearly, the pedagogical value of the law, given what has happened in this country, well, the truth is that I would prefer other pedagogical methods, right? Don't let him put you in jail, don't let him go to exile. And in any case, what I've seen... I've seen the applause you've had from the Citizens' Group, I see that the Spanish project is moving forward, huh? , and, therefore, the happiness to be, surely, one of the paladins. What I will do, because you seemed to doubt it, is always guarantee the right to protest and protest. This country is governed by the rights of all citizens. The right to protest, the right to protest, the right to concentration are recognized rights for international courts and we will respect them. If my speeches seem like torture to you, then imagine 'the way we look like the government of the state treats Catalans, don't you? For example. And about the Spanish judicial system, which some group has also spoken about, I would like to highlight some things. First, the Council of Europe, with a report from the Venice Commission of March 2017, let us say that it is three colors in Spain for the nine attributions it gave to the Constitutional Court, such as the possibility of suspending charges with responsibility in the Public Administration if they do not complete their sentences, as well as the third – it is obvious – its capacity to arbitrate neutrally. The whole premise lies in the classification of the Spanish State in the last positions of the countries of the European Union in judicial independence. The Minister of Justice, instead of analyzing the results and wondering how this is, how Spain is down on the list, questions them. At the global level, Spain is at the level of Tanzania and Algeria. A report of the Council of Europe of June 2017 publishes that Spain has incomplete three_of_every_four recommendations from Greek – the anti-corruption group of the Council of Europe – to avoid this type of practice, the politicization of justice. It is one of the grave problems this country has: the politicization of justice. She was harshly criticized for the system of election of high judicial officials, such as the members of the Supreme Court. And that, which seems to me to be only to worry the independenceists, I honestly think that I should worry all the Spanish citizens, that they should be the ones alarming themselves with these facts and the ones calling for a real system of a solid democracy and a separation of powers. [[Some applause.]] Thank you. And finally, to the company of Esquerra and Juntes, thank you for your words. Deia Sergi Sabria: "Independence is a necessity because the people of this country can get out. It's that, it's that it's a need. And that the Spanish State is irreformable. Another obvious, that's it, we can't see it any other way. Thanks also to the company Albert Batet for reminding us, precisely, of Puig Antich's birthday today, because I think it was worth remembering what we had been, and because I think we all share it – the Republican Left spokesman gave it to us – this'll persist and win. I absolutely agree: we will persist and win, we will persist and win. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.66.0	As long as the president hasn't arrived within five-and-twenty minutes, I'm now answering a three-and-a-half-minute turn for the parliamentary group and two-minutes for the subgroup – we're rounding him up, huh? [[Widow's remorse.]] Anyway, considering it's three and a half minutes and a little bit longer, so we'll also round up the groups, and two minutes down the subgroups, huh? Because you don't have a hard time. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Four minutes – four minutes. It has the word, therefore, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.67.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mr Torra, of course, in four_minutes answer everything that has been said here, because we have also been being questioned by the groups that support the Government, because you will understand that it is difficult. But, well, I'm gonna try to do it. I know that I was going out here and talking to me about hits, that I'm coming here to talk about hits, and you tell me, precisely, that you have released here a retahíla..., which, in truth, was to frame the. But above all, do not take away merit – do not take away merit – because it has attributed to me the hit of the Slovenian way and that hit is yours. I would never think of appealing to the Slovenian way – never. [[Greetings.]] Never, to the way of the dead – to me, never. Nor would I ever think of telling the violent « presseu, presseu. I'd never think of it, Mr. Torra; you would, because you're an irresponsible – you're an irresponsible, Mr. Torra – that's why I was telling you before and I'm telling you again now. I know, you also told me that I can't talk about disabled people here. Look, it's just that what I told you I didn't tell you, the Cocarmi told you. So you go and talk to the Cocarmi and explain to him what he is doing for them, because I want to remind him that since 2006 we have been waiting for you to adapt the autonomous laws to the UN convention – since 2006, Mr. Torra. Go and explain it to the Cocarmi, huh? But, of course, we can't talk about anything, can we? Besides, you even said it bothers you when we talk from the seat. Of course, mad beasts who scream and put resources, remember, Mr. Torra? [[Greetings.]] The one who respects Catalans so much. That is your respect, to call us the Catalan constitutionalists « mad beasts, that is the respect that you have us. But, of course, I know: I can't talk about cancer, I can't talk about people with disabilities, I can't take pictures or posters here because it bothers you. I can't talk to my classmates from the seat either. I cannot even say the word 'commands' here. I can't because you want to silence the opposition. You want to silence more than half Catalonia, and that's why you tell me I can't talk about anything here. [[Greetings.]] All this, of course, with the invaluable help of the President of Parliament, Mr Torrent, who, instead of acting as President of Parliament, turns out to be helping them. Because I want to ask you a question, Mr Torrent: here we have heard everything today, and the only one who was cut off by the microphone was me. Why can't I say "commands? " [[Greetings.]] I'm asking you. Why can I not say 'commands' when there have been people here who have come and talked about 'political prisoners'? [[Widow's remorse.]] To speak of "political prisoners means to accuse the judges of the Supreme Court of prevarication, means to say that the judges of the Supreme Court have people illegally detained for their ideas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.68.0	Silence... silence... silence... silence... silence... silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.69.0	...that's what it means to call political prisoners. [[Greetings.]] But I can't say 'commands' – I can't, I can't say 'commands', can I? We've heard a lot of barbarity here. There has been talk of state terrorism on the part of the Civil Guard, of « racies of the Civil Guard, said Mr Sabrià. But I can't say "commands," I can't say "commands," you can't, because that offends a lot, right? To speak the truth offends a great deal, because what you want, I insist, is to silence the opposition. That's what they want, what they already did in 2017 and what they're trying to do again now. I'll tell you one thing from here: they won't be able to shut us up. My commitment from here: they won't be able to shut us up. No matter how much they cut off our microphone, no matter how much they declare us unthankful people, or how much Mr. Batet threatens me with a reprobation. You can get the ball out now, Mr. Batet, because I'm not going to retract. [[Greetings.]] I will not fail to denounce the infamy that the President of the Generalitat assumes to defend the violent ones – I will not fail to denounce that infamy. I tell you, Mr. Torra, what you would have to do is get out here, is come and ask for forgiveness – and ask for forgiveness – because, yes, they are commands, they are radical commands, because they are now accused of possession of explosives and terrorist plans. [[Widow's remorse.]] Separatist commands...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.70.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.71.0	...radical. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Yes, sir, that's right...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.72.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.73.0	... as they are called, Mr. Torra – that's what they are called. The problem – the problem – is that you believe Catalonia is yours, and I have told you many times, Mr.Totra: Catalonia is one of all. Let it go, he's running out of time. Do us a favor and resign.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.74.0	It is now the return, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, of Mr Miquel Iceta's deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.75.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm not going to use this turn, because it's short, and more because I don't think I'm in the right place, to argue with parliamentary groups, because I came here to debate with the president, but I did want to make a couple of comments. One, thank everyone for the advice he gives us to the Socialist Group. [[Greetings.]] Regretting that they are such contradictory advice, which makes their application difficult, but we will do what we can. And I would like to post a post to the PP Group's chairman carrier, because he said at a certain point that we were equidistant. Miri, no – no. Between democrats and violent, we are not equidistant; between defenders of legality and those who deny it, we are not equidistant; between defenders of self-government and those who deny it, we are not equidistant. We have a certain political position that... as others think that "sometimes you will get the good of all others and you will give us the reason, we are more modest, more humble, we do not believe we are in possession of the truth. But we do not accept this idea that we are equidistant simply because our position does not please the most radical sectors of band and band. The president spoke on the subject of the report on independence. Look, I've said it once before, that I don't know if it's a blanket sometimes or a blanket sometimes, but we don't think that a reference to independence is a solution, we don't believe it. We don't want to certify a split for half – we don't want to. We believe that it is worthwhile to find a solution in which it is reasonable to feel comfortable a large majority, and that is our approach, from absolute respect for others, but that is ours. And, truth be told, we have given many times on this subject, and we have had intense debates, and we have sometimes changed our position or matified our position. But that's what it is, and so, anyway, I already understand that that's what we don't agree with, and that's why you agree with the CUP. [[remorse of the voice]] , and if not, « great. One thing. You can do a lot of things. There's a right, and I won't tell you that you don't have authority, or that... no – no, no. Now, do not equate the report of a United Nations working group with a decision of the European Court of Human Rights, please, because there are people who feel and there are people who can think that it is the same. Then, another, which is no longer a morning, we would say that it is another contradiction: the appeal against the Climate Change Law put the government of the PP, not the PSOE. I already know... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no. Ah, well, you said, "he did. We didn't put it down. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, I've withdrawn...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.76.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.77.0	... many things, and this certainly not, but, listen'm... [[Rialles.]] No, no, it's that going to the referee is the most just: when there are two parts that are in conflict and that are discussing competitions, our scheme, identical to that of the Federal Republic of Germany, is that there is a Constitutional Court that is the one that resolves the conflict. Now, you said, "You have filed the appeal... No, you have filed the PP government. You said that you agree with the approach to ecological transition and English. I just want to tell you that there are autonomous communities with the same financial economic difficulties that we have gone through. Therefore, we must thank each other very seriously. And finally, President, among other things, but his coincidence with the UPC, which seems to me to be very good that I have expressed it with sincerity and roundness, is what explains why it cannot coincide with us, and it is what makes it very difficult for us to translate into a continuity of its government, which we believe is not the government that today needs Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.78.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.79.0	Thank you, President. President, you said you made a triumphalist speech because you wanted to send a reliable message. So I think the best message of trust that can be given is to tell the truth, to self-criticize and stop donating bands with epic speeches that we don't know exactly what they want to say, neither we nor anyone else. And another reference that you have also made to the reply: you have spoken about Pablo Iglesias and 155, and I see myself under the obligation to remind you who filed an appeal before the Constitutional Court against the application of Article 155 against Catalonia, and not just this: who defended the right to decide throughout the State and in concrete terms the right to decide Catalonia. Therefore, I understand that you, the fact that there is another Spaniard who is Republican, who is progressive and who is plurinational, interrupts the speech, but I would appreciate it if you would not take a stand on this subject. [[Greetings.]] And he also wanted to insist: you said Catalonia is fine, you insisted on your idyllic vision of Catalonia, and I ask him how he can say Catalonia is fine. And I'm going to give him some checks I haven't told him before, but I think it's good to comment on them now, too. Young people have a 30_per_cent, 90_per_cent of the contracts they have are temporary, in fact the majority are one_month, and there are more than sixty_ thousand young people who have had to exile in search of a better future. As we tell someone who is twenty-five years old, who collects about 850_euros a month, when the booking in Catalonia – and not in Barcelona: in Catalonia – is around 700_euros a month, when the shopping cart is in about 370_euros...? With 850 euros this creature cannot be emancipated. But now we're thinking of a young man who's 30 years old. What do you charge? So the midjana is about 1,500 euros a month. The lloger, another time, 700_euros; the shopping cyst, 370; the gas, water and electricity costs. I can emancipate, but I can't even buy a book. So, if it's hard to emancipate anymore, how do we want these people to have kids? After we complain that we have a demographic problem in Catalonia. Therefore, he is condemning himself for a whole generation, and not just them to the future of our society. We have never been out of a crisis, and we are not announcing another, and I think we should all say and recognize that Catalonia's economy can go well in macroeconomic figures, but this has not reached the citizens' buttocks or the families of the common people. And, therefore, the worst thing we can do more in this situation is deny the signs that are already coming from a new economic crisis, which, as I said earlier, is not new, but it is another phase of which we have had for years, because 2008 Zapatero – the PSOE – denied the crisis and we have already seen the consequences. So what I'm asking is less denial and more dues. And, for that reason, I'm starting to make social, green and feminist public policies: fewer photos and more public policies. Think about it and think about it all, too, which is the most effective answer we have to give to the sentence, and, as I said before, we try to ensure that this House does not follow a lost opportunity to reach a minimum agreement. We're trying to move on to a future venture, because Catalonia deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.80.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed is the turn of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.81.0	Thank you, President. Miri, president, I don't know if the squad movements that prevented a demonstration here before the Parliament of the critical platform with the Aragonese law, in which we have actively participated, also obey court orders. I'm afraid not, I'm afraid one of the first times that the citizenry can't express freely and peacefully before Parliament has been here today, and I don't think it's been by judicial decision, I'm afraid it's been by decision of its Interior Department. Therefore, I review – review – this decision. Look, President, beyond the line you have expressed with the CUP, beyond your kind and conciliatory words, we must say that the action of your government – and you know it – does not correspond with this spirit, with this will, nor with these intentions nor with this practice. But we have opportunities to change this course. Miri, we have put forward various motions for resolutions, single motions for resolutions, which will give his Government and the parties that support him the opportunity to show whether or not there really exists such a consensus and whether there is a real will to make a turn of one hundred and twenty degrees in the government's policy so as to advance towards the actual exercise and effect, not symbolic or witness, of self-determination, and whether we really want to advance towards a turn of one hundred and twenty degrees in the public and social policies of this country so that they are policies of justice, equality, fairness for everyone, for the majority of the people of this country. We propose that we really talk about this exercise of the right to self-determination, how we concretely, effectively and effectively implement our proposal for self-determination, for amnesty and for policies that represent a turn in this country in favour of social justice, equality and sovereignty, because we, for social justice and for sovereignty, want the people in this country to handle their democratic institutions over the economic, political, practical, judicial and police powers of the State. Talk.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.82.0	Thank you. It is now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.83.0	Thank you very much, President. Very quickly. First of all, may you tell me about the journey through time, which is obsessed with Eugeni Xammar and the 1920s, because it seems quite picturesque to me. Secondly, you have not understood or listened to me carefully. I, even though it does bore me, make an effort to listen to him always with great attention. It is not the demand of the Pujolisme, quite the contrary: I have said that it is the process of national construction of the Pujol Programme 2000 that begins the decadence to which I referred. So, you haven't heard me at all. And then, a couple more thoughts. Look – let's see how I'm referring to this –, lately Jaume Souqués talks about "peaceful violence." The other day I read that you have, or had, above your table the Civil Disobedience Manual, of the Engler brothers. I also read these things to myself, even if it is a titanic effort, because it is quite the opposite of what I think, like Žižek or Sharp, which are basically – and this is my opinion – trying to develop a theory of how to perform violent actions and call pacifism. That is the summary: how to carry out violent actions and call it pacifism. Look, seven years... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] This is the theory of this. Read it to him. I'm sure you... Mr. Torra has read it; Mr. Batet sure as hell hasn't, but read it to him. [[Rialles.]] In the end, and this is the most important thing, seven years later and a lot of exhaustion later, you are singing a hard to make a crucial decision. I strongly recommend that you think about it. Think about it very well, because it could be irreversible decisions. And finally, one thing now... It's not fair – and I also say it – – that you deny the debate about disability or illness because of your personal experience, because you know you're not the only one who's had this kind of experience, and they're very hard. But that..., we are politicians, and from those personal experiences does not mean that we cannot receive criticism for our management, in the same way that someone who has an unemployed family member..., that cannot mean that we cannot talk about unemployment. I'm just saying...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.84.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.85.0	... that all these things obviously hurt a lot – and I finish – but don't run away from the debate for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.86.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Republican Parliamentary Group, is the return of Mr Sergi Sabrià. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.87.0	Thank you, President. President, I begin to thank the content of the proposal, and his proposals from the Government are also our proposals from the Government, but I still want to point out, too, that the national proposals today converge, and that it was essential that they passed, and that they passed now, at the door of the judgment. I think it was a demand from the society that has brought us here and that it is good that it has happened today in Parliament, because that is what will help us move forward and grow up. I think it's very important. To the CUP. They asked us why we want strong institutions. So that's why it's the best way to serve the citizens socially and at the same time the best way to advance nationally. And they also put in place an agreement, an agreement for self-determination, for amnesty and broad, cross-cutting phonemental rights, addressed to 80_per_cent, which encloses social and political movements. In these conditions of iniciators, we always – always – be there. The starting point is good, and the realization, as always, will require time and dialog, but there are. So you said: "Are we talking? Talk. Catalonia in Comú. It's a presupposition. Deal with honesty, let's do it. They owe it to the people. Let's do it for them, it's an opportunity for the citizen. You extend your hand and we take it honestly, as you asked. Let's learn from him a year ago, we thought we also had an opportunity. Make it possible now, we put a basic tool at the hands of the citizens of Catalonia. And they made some big deals, too. We are always at the table of the dialogue and, therefore, to talk about welfare, to talk about social justice, inequality, the fight against corruption..., we will agree, sure, also against repression. And we have to do it, we have to do it, for the exercise of self-determination. They're good starting points. Work, politics. And about the anti-Florentine law. Do two days of the day together define it – you – as necessary. Here in Parliament, there were papers, because they know it necessary. Therefore, I'm sure – I'm sure – we can even agree on this. To Mr. Iceta. "They don't know where they're going," you said. Yes, we do, Mr. Iceta: we govern to make a better country for everyone. But we don't have the tool, we don't have the tools, and you'd want us to give up holding them, but we'll never do it. And we would never buy his trap either: deciding the future politics of Catalonia voting is not confrontation, it is democracy. Mrs. Granados finds that the citizens are little to make important decisions. A little worthy of socialist history, very little. I look, in the end, Esquerra..., and in these debates always – always, always – we put them the same face, so repetitive and so democratic: two falls, a dialog and a reference. Catalan citizens are mature and empowered to decide. Mrs. Granados, don't worry about it. I to Citizens. Lies, assaults, insults; today they have followed the Civil Guard's voice that applies repression to us and that needs a report to make it effective. They don't deserve our answer because we don't want to fall in case of their provocations. We will always continue to address the cent_per_cent of the citizenry, but not through insult or lying. We are here and we will follow, because in resistance and persistence we advance and advance we win. Therefore, we are determined and there are to answer collectively another time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.88.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the new word Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.89.0	Thank you very much, President Torrent. President Torra, advisors, advisors, deputies and deputies... Mrs Roldán, what a disappointment: she has had two opportunities to rectify and has not done so. Now, after his intervention today, we will no longer only ask him for respect for the President of the Generality, for President Torra, but we will also ask him for respect for the victims of terrorism. The political use of the victims of terrorism does not form part of the political culture in Catalonia, and, moreover, it is what they demand. [[applause]] associations against the victims of terrorism. And today his behavior has been totally unwarranted, unprincipled. Mr. Iceta. He said, "You know, we are not equidistant," said Mr.Iceta. Dic: « Ostres, to Junts per Catalunya long ago we know that the Socialist Party is not equidistant, if they agreed on 155, if they agreed with the People's Party and Ciutadans, if they sailed to the pact of Zarzuela and Moncloa. If anything, the one who passed here two years ago, if you've approved it. They're not people, they're equidistant. With some more own forms, but at the time of truth, listen to me, when they have the responsibility of government as they have held during all this time... To spy on the delegations of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, to want to hold them back; not to pay the financing beasts of the Government of Catalonia – Party of the Socialists of Catalonia –, not to fulfill the percentage of investments of the State – Party of the Socialists of Catalonia –, to renounce a table of the dialog because there was a rapporteur – Party of the Socialists of Catalonia –, to make a manifesto, the PSOE, as a week ago that the van did, in that it was clear that they did not want to know king of the independenceists in a completely baroque way. And it is more, they remember the world, the Party of Socialists, to have a president in the Congress and a president in the Senate who were superfast to suspend the rights of elected deputies chosen for the citizens of Catalonia, such as Mr Oriol Junqueras, such as Mr Jordi Sànchez, such as Mr Turull, such as Mr Rull and such as Mr Romeva; a great socialist president, who had to be sensitive to Catalonia during all these times. And then he asks us, "Listen to me, there are things that we think are better than an impartial arbiter. Clearly, an impartial arbiter who is called the Constitutional Court, who sees him naming the Socialist Party and People's Party leaders. Listen to me, this isn't an impartial referee, this is an arbiter from part. It's more, if there was a Popular Party activist, who was Pérez de los Cobos, who was president of the Constitutional Court, and if everyone knows how they've acted! If you, during this year and a half, appointed the State Attorney General, you had the powers with the State Attorney and did not kill a thousand-month prison sentences for political prisoners! If they haven't made any effort! We know, and don't let them fool us: they're not reliable, the Socialist Party isn't impartial. We've noticed it in our own flesh and we live in the first person. I finally, let's macabar. Mr. President Torra, you took over the presidency of the Generality at a time of maximum uncertainty, at a time to raise 155 and regain the power of the institutions, a gesture of country that honors you as a person, settle down at the head of the country's highest institution. Because when you ran for the 21st of December elections, you didn't think you could end up with this responsibility. A few days are coming, a few months are coming for the country, for the defense of the institutions and for the defense of the citizens of the Parliament of Catalonia and the people of Catalonia. Know, President Torra, that he will be holding us as a parliamentary group on the side at these important times of the country, and I am convinced that there will also be the independence majority that arose on 21 December, that it will revalidate the independence mandate of the U of October that there was here in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.90.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.91.0	Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.92.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over... yes, Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.93.0	President, for direct references. I have made direct references to the very honourable president and to the two spokespersons of the groups supporting the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.94.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.95.0	I hope, of those who sit here and represent the citizenry, that, in the accounts of doing tweets and reading only tweets, we listen to the arguments of those who sit in this hemisphere. The Socialist Group has always defended an agreement, to which we shall have to reach among all of us, and subtender'referendum'. This is our proposal. So I stop repeating what was said in a tweet and it doesn't add up in absolute terms to what I said in the interview. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.96.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Yes, Mrs. Roldán, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.97.0	Yes; in contradiction, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.98.0	Contradictions? I should have specified more.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.99.0	Contradictions of Mr. Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.100.0	You have already debated and have had the opportunity to debate...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.101.0	Yes, but in contradiction, I have the right to ask for the word...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.102.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.103.0	We're not gonna get it right, are we?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.104.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.105.0	All right, thank you. Mr Batet, what I am sure you do not want the victims of terrorism is that you receive them, those convicted of terrorism, with red carpet. This is what victims' associations against terrorism do not want. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.106.0	The debate is over... yes, Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.107.0	Yes, for a call to the observance of the Rules, president, and, obviously, only to inventory effects, because the debate is exhausted. But in the absence of a pronouncement from the Board of Spokesmen in relation to the allocation of time in this debate, I think it is necessary to apply the one established by the Rules. And the Rules of Procedure, in Rule 154.5, state that, in this turn of the President's reply, the corresponding time is two minutes per parliamentary group, half for the subgroup. And that's not what happened today. Therefore, neither that it is inventory effects, nor that it is record effects, let the discrepancy be understood in the application of this allocation of time, which we consider to be contrary to the Rules.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.108.0	Mr. Member, you know perfectly well that what the Rules stipulate is a maximum of two minutes for the parliamentary group and five minutes for the subgroup. In any case, we have applied the same dynamic – and therefore the same time – as in other debates of the same characteristics, including the general policy debate. And at the same time, all the parliamentary groups present at the Board of Spokesmen held the plenary sequence, where it was specified, specifically, what were the speaking times of the groups for this comeback, huh? In any case, it remains to the title of inventory, which you gave, and it will be transferred to the Board of Spokesmen so, if in proper debates of these characteristics the parliamentary groups decide to apply another timing, some other time of intervention, obviously, as always, we will decide on this Board of Spokesmen, as I said. Thank you. Anyway... [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.109.0	Very briefly, President, for a contradiction. 154.5 does not say that it is for a term "maximum of two minutes, but it says a turn of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-09-25-3701.110.0	All right. In any case, I have already specified what there is and that, in any case, all parliamentary groups are aware of the time, and that this is a question that will be transferred to the Board of Spokespersons. I insist: there was the same timing as in any other debate and parliamentary groups, including the subgroups, and including their subgroups, did not say anything at the time, when the timings were moved. After the debate, I will now comment briefly on the handling of the motions for resolutions that we will finally vote on tomorrow in plenary. The reminder that the motions for resolutions subsequent to this debate will be submitted as soon as 30 minutes after the suspension of this plenary, so that when this plenary ends, they will have 30 minutes, maximum, to submit these motions for resolutions. That they will communicate to the parliamentary groups the proposals admitted to the Bureau, at a _table that we will do immediately after the reception of all the motions for resolutions. And that, finally, the deadline for presenting the transactions will be tomorrow at noon, and I remind you that this deadline is improbable because automatically after we make the table that will accept the transactions that will eventually be voted on in the plenary, in the debate that will begin from four o'clock in the afternoon. Therefore, this is the handling of the motions for resolutions. We suspend the session until tomorrow at four o'clock. Thank you very much.
