ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.1.0	Let's start the session. The list of questions to be answered orally in the plenary is included in the dossier, and, according to Rule 164, they will be substantiated this morning, to the gods of the morning, approximately. Before the debate and the vote on the proposal for a procedure... before the debate and the vote on the proposal for a law amending Law 13/2006, we shall have to debate and vote on the proposal for a single reading before the plenary of the proposed law amending the Law 13/2006, of social benefits of economic character, which appears as point 4 of the agenda and which will be the first. Before passing to this point, therefore, I would like to point out that, in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules, Mr Ferran Pedret, with a motion for parental leave, has delegated his vote for this plenary session to Congresswoman Eva Granados, spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, and, thus, that Congresswoman María del Camino Fernández Riol has delegated her vote to Congresswoman Lorena Roldán, spokesman of the Parliamentary Group in Ciutadans. Also the memory that deputy Raül Romeva has appointed deputy Sergi Sabrià of the Republican Parliamentary Group, because he exercises his parliamentary rights. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 13/2006, of social benefits of economic character]] [[202-00054/12]] So let's move to this fourth point of the order of the day, which we will substantiate in the first place, which is the debate and vote of the proposal for processing, directly and in one reading before the plenary, of the proposed law amending the Law 13/2006, of social benefits of economic character. The Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can ask for a single reading of this legislative initiative, in accordance with Article 138.2 of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the criteria of the Board of Spokesmen of 3 June, the procedure established by the Bureau on its day for this type of debate will be followed. Therefore, we shall proceed first to make a first debate and vote because the Plenary agrees, if you choose, to process the bill's proposal for the single reading procedure. The record that the debate must revolve around this assumption, that is, the enabling assumption of Article 138.1, the Rules, and the general value of the text, the opportunity, the principles and the criteria that inform the proposal in accordance with the rules of the totality debate. In this first debate, we must give a turn of two minutes to each group..., to the group proposing, in this case – forgive me – and five minutes to each parliamentary group, to the rest of parliamentary groups, and, obviously, two and a half minutes to the subgroup. Therefore, in the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, and for a maximum time of two minutes, Mrs Marta Ribas. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. How many of you have children of age or age next to age, or girls, and believe that you have the conditions so that you can have an independent life now, to emancipate yourself by making them of age, and to be completely autonomous economically without any type of help? If it can be hard for you to imagine it, with young people or girls created in a more or less structured family environment, with a life that may have been emotionally stable, with educational and training options standard, imagine what it must be like for a new person or for a girl who is leaving with much more disadvantages. We are one of the countries of Europe and the world with a later emancipation age; a country where a person of thirty years is considered young. But most of the young men and women who have been extolled, we throw them into the void of having to spy on themselves the day they snoop at the spells of the different years. We are talking about young people in a situation of special vulnerability, because they do not normally have family support, they do not have the resources to make this transition to adult life; a collection that presents a high risk of social and economic exclusion, as highlighted in different studies, both in Catalonia and in the European sphere. And we either bring them back to those unstructured and negated environments from which the Administration has removed them, when they have this family environment, or go straight to the street to seek life, and today, in many cases, without a situation or just a regular work permit. The consequences of not avoiding these situations with public policies, services and resources, we are already living on our streets every day. Today, a third of the homeless people in Barcelona are young, basically extuted; they have had to create even a specific centre for this type of people without home. In Catalonia, there is from many years ago an economic performance and an educational, legal, psychological support plan for the young extolled; it is a measure, it is an economic performance of support, of direct protection, that has been pioneering and very interesting in its moment..., but that requires now to adapt it to the reality. And this is the object of this proposal of law that we defend Catalonia in Comú We can, because it can be discussed in form..., as quickly as possible, and therefore for one reading, in this Pleth. The law to which I refer, and which reverses this performance, is the Law 13/2006 of 27 July– 2006, which we are talking about. It is a law of social services of economic character that created, as I said, a right of temporal character equivalent to the CIHR in order to attend to situations of need of young people who have been protected by the Administration. This service applies to different years, from the child protection system to the twenty-one, as well as the maximum. And it is basically recognized for the boys and girls who have been protected during a period of, like at least, three years, who voluntarily follow an insertion program and live autonomously outside the family nucleus, with a maximum of entrances. The years 2014-2015 this service has already changed and expanded to be able to hold it, but only for a few months, also to those young guardians who on reaching the majority of age do not complete this requirement to have been at least three years in the child protection system. But the past few years there have been obvious changes in our country, all over the world, but especially in Europe and our country, which have turned emancipation into an objective every time more difficult for all young people, also, and especially for young people who are extolled. The eventuality and precariousness in the labor market, the increase in the price of housing, the attachment, also, from access to study – we remember that we are in the country, Catalonia, with the most expensive university taxes – make it now a dream that a young person or a young person of different years can get out alone or alone. In parallel, the collection of young extolls has also undergone two clear changes, over the last few years, which have added to these general difficulties: there are more young protected people who have been less than three years in the system of protection at the childhood of Catalonia; when they complete these divided years, therefore, or are left on the road or, like many, with the help of a few months, as at most six months, and, moreover, with processes of labor insertion or study in the media. In addition, there has been another important change that affects them: the elimination of minimum income for the entry into force of guaranteed income for citizens, approved for this Parliament in 2017. And this later, the guaranteed income of citizenship, I did not maintain that exceptionality that is done with the minimum income of insertion to allow this type of young people to access this guarantee of minimum entrances when they need it. Two elements, for the lower part, let's say, from the entrance, of the years required to access this help, and for the later part, from where, until what age this help can arrive, which is not now..., did not continue with the other services for adults, as was the minimum income and now is the guaranteed income of citizenship. That is why this proposal, which basically only makes two changes to that benefit in 2006, eliminates the minimum time needed to have been under the custody of the Generality to access this assistance to the extutelate and to increase the possible duration of the benefit of the twenty-one to twenty-three years to adapt to what is guaranteed citizenship. For the technical sensitisation of this proposal, which basically modifies some elements of an article of the 2006 Law on Economic Performances, this is a law that we have requested to deal with by one reading; formal sensitisation for which we believe it is absolutely justified that this one reading can be done. Even the formal sensileness, however, we do not deny – in fact, we claim – that this is a law of a great political fall. With this we are deciding whether to follow the deaf and the blind to a reality that exists in our country and our streets or whether we give an answer. In our opinion, we need to give an answer and with celerity and courage, and in accordance with two principles. One, respect for basic human rights, to offer support to the most vulnerable collectivities, which must not stand by the fact of completing divided years, but can adapt it to offer support to those who need it while needing it. The other principle, that of realism, and, if they want, selfishness: if we want a cohesive society and cities, sure, with a system of sustainable and future public services, we don't leave anyone in the void, and especially young people. We are a society with a vegetative growth denied and with an accelerated aging. So, for realism and selfishness, we don't want to leave anyone behind, especially young people. I ask you today, this morning, to approve this one-reading procedure, for the formal reasons that I have explained to you, to modify only two points of an article of a law; also because of the urgent need to approve this type of modification, but if today, this morning – which I hope – this one-reading procedure thrives, when you do analytics of the text during these two days of ple to lay down your partial statements, you do it from these two principles that I have asked you to present at the time of assessing this law: realism and egoism, and especially respect for basic human rights. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, and to position themselves, the rest of the parliamentary groups will intervene. And, in the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr David Bertran.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.4.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, young people from the public and the other part of the public, as I have already explained in the motion that our parliamentary group has managed to approve on matters of youth, the young people find us in a situation of difficulties stem from the economic crisis that we suffered during the past decade and that it still persists in many forms, and also because of the public policies that have been completed by the different governments of the Generality. The seven-to-twenty-five-year-old youth collection suffers from a period of up to 30_per_cent, and we see that when they find work, most of the time it is of precarious type. Moreover, youth emancipation is one of the highest in the whole of the European Union in the past 30 years. In this it does not help that in Catalonia we have the public housing park lower than all of Spain, the result of public spending policies that amount to half the middle of the entire state. For what he does in training, we have seen how the continuing school failure in some very high numbers compared to the rest of Europe and how the socio-family origin, in Catalonia, is more strongly determining the economic results, and therefore work, of young people compared to the rest of autonomous communities. In the band, elements that would have a lot of potential trainer and job placement, such as vocational training, are not doing everything and do it long before the government says it will take hands and hands to develop them. Example of this is that the agency for the quality of vocational training is still inoperative four years after the adoption of Law 10/2015. As I said, being young today is not easy, but it is that complexity rises to high levels if, moreover, we find ourselves in a situation of not having a family reunion, which is what many times ago we were able to pull everything and the socioeconomic context against. That's why we feel obliged to give opportunities to all young people who haven't had the chance to have a family at a later date and who probably haven't had an easy childhood, and to do so more beyond most of their age and until they can be worth it for themselves. The reform proposal that concerns us today refers above all to the duration of these economic benefits that can be covered by these young extolls on the part of the Administration, which are steps from the top of the twenty-and-a-half years up to the twenty-three and eliminating the obligation to have passed through the guardianship system for a minimum of three years. And we have to say that roughly seems right to us; in a band, because this measure ensures that a premature output of the system does not lead them to marginality or indigency if they have not been able to find work, also taking into account that a tool in which they could try to isolate themselves, as is the guaranteed income of citizenship, even though it is set aside by the government. And, on the other hand, because it is well known that we have a situation that is complex with the increase of the MENA, which has multiplied by its arrival in the last four years; they are young people who are mostly between fifteen and seven years old and who will soon come out in important quantities of the system of guardianship for minors, and they have clear difficulties with the idiom, which is an indispensable requirement for being able to find work in the labor market. That said, and if it is completely certain that we have this obligation to care for our young and young in its first stages of emancipation, above all those who have had it harder in life, it is also true that the Public Administration has the obligation to make an efficient use of its resources, which are the taxpayers', and which, therefore, must promote the efforts of these young people. That is why we believe that the follow-up of a socio-occupational integration programme must continue to be conditional upon these benefits, and we therefore hope that there will be a regulatory development where it is strictly concrete which are the training and good conduct to be followed in order to achieve the benefits. The objective and the best social policy, in fact, must be that these young people can leave the system of benefits as soon as possible, so that they have formed correctly and in equal condition as any other young català, and that they can find a good job, suitable for their interests, to develop a life project that fills them as people and that at the same time makes the whole socioeconomic system sustainable in their conjunction. Finally, for the one reading, we will vote in favour, bearing in mind that it meets some of the requirements of Article 138 which refer to the simplicity of the wording. In cases like these, it seems quite clear that we can use this way, unlike what has been tried on many other occasions where this was not close. And it will be curious to see, therefore – it will be curious – if the government parties argue that this process cannot go through a single reading while defending that all the legislation that was tried to impose on the 6th and 7th of September 2017, which was trying to subvert all the legal order, not just the autonomic, but from all the state, was a perfectly reasonable thing from its point of view, based on this type of processing. And we'll see for sure, and a little bit more, as coherence is not one of his strengths. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.5.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the return of Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.6.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, also to the people who accompany us from the guest gallery. This reform that today we have in Catalonia in Comú Pode de la Llei de prosecuções éconómicas for what it does to young extollates seems absolutely adient to us. The aim of this performance – and Mrs Ribas has explained it very clearly – is to provide young people with an extensive economic background that allows them to develop their life plan in a progressive way and that always – always – must be in line with the Emancipation Support Programme and the follow-up of this by a professional referent. Therefore, I believe that here we need to make clear some things that they have to do with the current content of the law and with the proposal that is being made. How many young people are we talking about? So the year 2017, which is the last year of which we have published the data of the memory by the area of Young Guardians, we are talking about 2,400 young extolled in Catalonia. The year 2018 obviously has increased; we still don't have the concrete data, but with the arrival of the least strangers not accompanied, considering that it is almost 46_percent of the new generality of Catalonia, so we can imagine the increase that has occurred in this sector. It would be a mistake to think that this modification is a law of modification intended for MENA; most of the young extolled in Catalonia are or have Catalan origin. It would, therefore, be a mistake to think that this law may have or this modification may have a call effect, because doing so would be to ignore the current content of the law. It is a change of law for those young majors who have been protected by the Government of Catalonia and those who have not been protected by the Government of Catalonia. According to the current wording of the law, and in summary, so as not to enter into details in the time we have, any young extutely, or not, entering the protection system, which is attached to the Support Area to the Young Extutely, whenever you follow the insertion program, which viscose autonomously and does not have entries equal to or greater than 569_euro per month, you can opt for this service. With some limitations, it's true. But the current law makes it clear that the young Catalan or coming to Catalonia with the intention of integrating, of forming, of accepting a professional follow-up, can opt for this service. And, as we want it to be, so you need to adapt the law to the current reality. And I welcome the fact that the Law on Benefits was passed, which was one of the considerations that my parliamentary group made at the time when the debate was raised as to whether it was necessary to integrate this collection into the guaranteed income of citizenship. With the current conditions it would be impossible, for a matter of age; we would have to reform the guaranteed income of citizens. But we had a benefit, we had a law that marked that benefit, and so what we have to try to do is to remove those limitations. I'm going to smooth them out. We can't miss a young man who wants to join our society of this performance because he's a major of age and hasn't been protected before by the Generality. At present, I would be entitled to this service only for six months, which is almost as long as it takes because the Generality can claim from the Government of Morocco, for example, the necessary documentation because this young person can opt for social or work placement plans. Therefore, ensuring only for six months this service does not solve the problem, because they may run out of this service time and we will still not have the necessary documentation to be able to do this integration process. Therefore, it is necessary to extend this term, because, if we do not, the alternative is the street, it is the non-accompaniment, it is the loneliness, it is the expulsion of the system. But I also have one thing to say: with an economic performance only, we will not fix the problem. If we really want to achieve this full integration, we need sufficient employment plans for these communities; we need more employment plans that allow, besides, not only the work experience, but also the normalization of their administrative situation; we need to make an effort to know the languages in Catalonia; we need to guarantee access to university studies; we need to bring together the managers who are working with these young extolls; we need to put them on protected floors, because also the residence, the place where you live, is determining for your future. I'm done. That is why we consider – I said earlier – that we need to reform this article, and we will put it on a positive line, in some different cases. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] to the aspects that Catalonia proposes in Comú Puem; a proposal that we discuss in the proper hours...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.7.0	Deputy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.8.0	... – and I finish, President – and it must serve us to update the legislative text to reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.9.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.10.0	Good morning, all of you. President, to speak from the Escó. The proposed modification of the performance applicable to extute young people means, for a band – and it has already been said in previous interventions – that this can be enjoyed not only until twenty-one years, as in the present, but until twenty-three years, and, therefore, would be a reality with which the performance can be transformed from three to five years. And second, also, the modification incorporates that is not required, from the perspective of guardianships to different years, the lack of years or years, as currently established the regulation. We argue that we will vote, when I respond – we don't know yet – in favour of this bill; it's not up to us now, but we want to move forward because we think that even to interpret what is asked of us is necessary. For a band, that's what it would mean: that there's a lot of young people who aren't out at the time of completing the split years, and let's think about all the meaning that this has. And secondly, also: that when it comes to completing the twenty-and-a-years, I don't lose the performance and, therefore, look what it will mean if we actually have a performance that is only for three years, from the divide to the twenty-and-a-years, or if it could be done until the twenty-and-three years; so, five years in which many, or the least extuted, can configure their life with a reality of building a future. It's hard to build a future when you've been an accomplished young man and you've just been working on it for three years. And on the question that we have to vote exactly in the morning of today, on the single reading, for this subgroup it is given the two requirements of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia. For a band, the first, in relation to the nature of the project; and for natural people, many things can be heard. But we observe: we are speaking, for one band, of partial modification of a norm and, for another band, of demand for celerity. If we approve it in one reading – and this is also natural – we would have a reality for which the future performance is not lost, changeable, for a whole series of young extolls. And, secondly, the requirement that for us is not questionable, that it is simplicity. We are talking about the modification of a sub-heading of an article that in the end affects only two articles of a standard and, therefore, that of a simple reading can be heard. That is why we will vote in favour of the single reading.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.11.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.12.0	Thank you, President. Also in order to pronounce ourselves on the proposal for a single reading of this proposal for a law presented by Catalonia in Comú Puem. Parliament's Rules set out what are the requirements for a single reading of a bill's proposal, and they are basically limited to the simplicity of its wording. Therefore, bearing in mind that this is a proposal of law that they do not intend to suppress neither the Statute nor the Constitution, nor do they intend to organize an illegal reference, but that they claim a much nobler cause, that it is to increase aid and support to young extolled people, we understand that it perfectly meets the requirements set out in the Rules of Parliament so that this proposal of law can be substantiated in a single reading. The second question I wanted to comment on is in relation to the content, because we also believe that the unique reading is appropriate and, therefore, an urgency in approving this law. Because it's phonatively donating two circumstances. Firstly, the entry into force of the guaranteed income of citizens, that their perception is not possible until the twenty-three years, as one of the requirements, and therefore the elimination of the minimum income of insertion. And, therefore, the possibility of the young extolls joining each other from the divvy years to the minimum income of insertion leaves, in this case, a void that we understand can somehow cover. But there is also a second important element, which is the increase of young extolls; the increase of young guardians and the increase of young extolls. And, man, it does have a relationship, not complete, with the least unaccompanied strangers who have come to Catalonia in the last few years in a very intense way. We have found the data of young extolls attached to the Generality's service, which by 30 April were concretely 2,558, and there was an important increase, at the time that there was also a reduction in the percentage of young people who accrue to the help of the divided in the twenty-one years and an increase in the conjunctural help of the six-months for those who do not meet the requirements. Therefore, we understand that we need to review these conditions, to review this performance, and certainly not in such a generous way as proposed by the Group of Catalonia in Comú Podem, but in a way that is much more realistic, that allows insertions, which is, in short, what is being pursued by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.13.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marta Vilalta has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.14.0	Well, good morning. Thank you very much, President. Good morning to everyone; also to the Pompey policy students who are accompanying us today. Well, we're here to discuss this proposed law amending Law 13/2006. Allow me to make a more extensive reference: in Catalonia we have, in effect, the Law of Rights and Opportunities in Childhood and Adolescents, which among many other things also regulates the post-age support of the protected persons, so that we can have precisely what we are talking about today: that we can guarantee their emancipation process and facilitate the orientation, training and support needed for young extolled people. Indeed, there is also Law 13/2006, of social benefits of economic character, which today is what we are debating for its modification; a benefit, of course, that only exists in Catalonia and in Euskadi and that effectively, therefore, it is a powerful tool and that it does require changes. Therefore, from the outset, I want to express on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, and also on behalf of the Government, that we share the need to improve the follow-up of young extolls, with the aim of improving the conditions of the journey to adulthood, while also increasing all the emancipatory possibilities and reducing the possible situations of vulnerability. Therefore, we agree that this should be improved. And, precisely, there are the background information that we are arguing about and that has been put on the table; for one band, the difficulties for young people to be able to emancipate, for all young people in our country to be able to emancipate, the crisis of the last years, the precarious situations, so it is very difficult and obvious, therefore, that we must combat this situation and guarantee equal opportunities for all young people. Plus, if we look, right? , the arrival data of young migrants alone, so, we see how, lately, there has been an increase of these young people who have come to seek opportunities also in our country and that what has done is increase the needs also that, on the part of the Administration, we can give answer to these young people. This is not a conjunctural situation – we don't understand this – and therefore requires background and reform reforms that can improve the protection system and the follow-up system for these young people. And, therefore, before these ideas that have already been reflected that need to be improved, and before all these young people who see the compliment of the majority of the age can be left in a situation where they are interrupted their project of follow-up to this process of new opportunities, therefore, what it is like, as I said, is to make the necessary changes. Therefore, this current situation requires immediate, but also cross-cutting and comprehensive measures, which facilitate its reception and attention. We agree that all this needs to be improved, we agree that all this needs to be done and that we need to be done well. Now, what we do not agree with from our parliamentary group, and we do not share, is the need to do so through the single reading mechanism procedure. We do not share the way to do it for one reading, because, before this end, we have the need to be able to make a debate that is substantive, a debate with sufficient time, not just twenty-four hours, now, without delay. Therefore, to be able to do the debate as long as necessary, to value above all all the impacts that this has, both presupposed, as in the same system, as at the territorial level. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, President, I don't feel like myself, because there are people who are talking...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.15.0	Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.16.0	Thank you. He said we didn't share the mechanism, yes the fund. How do you think I can do that? We believe that it is necessary to take account of the rest of the services and regulations that are also affected. It is certain that the law that we are debating today, Law 13/2016, must be reworded, but this has implications in a decree that precisely deploys this law; it has implications also, therefore, in the Law of fiscal and financial measures; it has implications in the processing and deployment of guaranteed income from citizenship; therefore, it is not as simple as, from the outset, it may seem. On the other hand, an impact like this is an obviously social impact, an economic impact, so it requires doing this job, as I said, with enough time, but without delay. And an economic impact that, as the proposal is now put forward, would have an impact of more than 80_million for the system; some money that, obviously, must come out – must be guaranteed – of the assumptions of the Generality and, therefore, this must also be guaranteed; apart from the impact on the same system, on all the people who work to accompany these young people, on all the people who accompany them for the job placement of these young people. And, finally, the change that you are submitting says that it has to be settled quickly – and so Mrs Ribas told us, proposing the change – but, in change, she also says that it will not come into force until the Generality's assumptions are approved, so the assumptions of the year are coming. Therefore, even though today is the beginning of this, it will not come into force. So it's urgent? Surely it will, but it will not come into force immediately. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] So...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.17.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.18.0	...as long as it doesn't come into force – I finish, President – immediately, let's give ourselves this time. We agree. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We work well, we agree to do it in the background, so we do it the best way we can, taking into account all these implications and getting the right we all want...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.19.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.20.0	...that's equal opportunities for all young people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.21.0	Thank you. Finally, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Gemma Geis has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.22.0	Well, good morning, deputies, deputies, counselors, counselors. Let me begin my first intervention, showing my admiration and support to all of our companies and companies that yesterday made their final attachment in this shameful judgment. [[Greetings.]] I wish that all together we find the way forward, the way forward to fight this injustice and the way of freedom. Today we are discussing this proposal to modify the Law of economic services, on the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pom. For the past twenty-three years, they want to extend the benefit of the young guardians and extutes of the Generality to facilitate their emancipation and to eliminate the minimum period of three years of having been protected by the Generality so as to emancipate themselves. We do not doubt either the will or the purpose of the proposal, but we do understand that this unique format of reading is not the best way to allow a rigorous debate and the background to the modification of this law. You, Mrs Ribas, began your presentation and said to us: "You imagine... do you know the problems of young people? We also know the problems of young people, and I would say more: we know it and the government, for years, has concrete policies to address this situation with increases in assumptions. Therefore, it is not an imagination that in us it is not real, but that we know it, we want to debate it and we want to continue to be active in politics in this sense. With you, too, a few months ago, we discussed here the specific plethora of protection from childhood, where it became clear– and, above all, for your parliamentary group– the need to make a country debate– and we did it– about childhood, in depth and with the need to adopt policies– as Mrs Vilalta said – integrators, global, in this matter. Therefore, we understand the purpose of this change, but what we have doubts is respect for this change in one reading. Why? Because we understand that this change – as Mrs Vilalta also said – will only come into force if the assumptions are approved. So, I understand from here a certain complicity to approve the assumptions the year you see? That we have always defended the need to have assumptions, because, if not, this law that you yourself now intend to modify will not come into force. Third. This change in a single reading process, this change in a single reading process, allows us to have a five-minute debate, which is neither a debate nor a profound one; which does not allow us to listen – as you have often claimed – to entities, experts, associations. And so – here we have the audience, right? – therefore, people, entities, who in this one-reading modification process will not be able to be listened to, because these proposals that I understand are piece proposals, that we do not say that they are not necessary, but are piece proposals. And what we want, like Junts for Catalonia, is a policy, effectively, for young people, because they can emancipate themselves, because they can decide their life, because they can be free to develop like people. And, therefore, the Government of Catalonia, as it is doing – and it must continue to do – must be at the side of all this young man in Catalonia. Why? Because it's the only way there's a country, the only way to keep moving forward, which is that the young man has this equal opportunity. On the other hand, when the deputy of Citizens said "coherence..., look, I didn't talk about coherence, because some of us have studied, and the coherence of the policies of Mr Valls, in France, in immigration and youth issues, so they don't want the most coherent respect you have defended. So, when I talked about coherence... [[Greetings.]] Therefore, we will vote that no to this single reading process, because we understand that it does not help to evaluate, right? For example, we can discuss the assessment of public policies, which are indicators of the return of these public policies of efficiency, efficiency, and accountability... but we are now open to these issues that can be put forward in order to find a common agreement. Because the most important thing is..., I understand that it's not a piece policy, that I think this law and this punctual change is, that, more importantly, it's symbolic, because until the assumptions are made, it can't be implemented, but what we want is a real, effective, transformative policy and that really solves the problems of young people in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.23.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. Mrs Ribas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.24.0	Contradictions, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.25.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.26.0	In one band, obviously, a single reading process does not allow you to listen to entities. I inform you, however, that this law has been passed by Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, but it is a law for the Federation of Entities with Projects and Assisted Floors and for Save the Children, to which I take advantage to greet. And, on the other hand, another of the apparent contradictions, actually because this law can be applied, obviously, so that there are the assumptions and, therefore, until there are the assumptions it could not be applied, but that there is this modification of the law, that the two things fall; one can advance it in this Ple. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.27.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We shall proceed to the vote. We shall vote on the single reading of this legislative initiative. It is understood that the affirmative votes are in favour of single reading and that the negative votes are against. And, therefore, let us proceed to the vote. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] In any case, honourable Member, the system has worked for the rest of the Members, so let's see if it's a problem with their bait. The result is 69 votes in favour of single reading, 62 against and no abstentions. Therefore, having regard to the result of the vote and in accordance with Rule 138.1 of the Rules, the Proposal for a Law amending Law 13/2006, of social benefits of economic character, will be dealt with in a single reading before the plenary. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about policies to ensure a sufficient number of health professionals (withdrawn)]] [[310-00184/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the questions with an oral answer to the Government. Before the start of the control session, the fact is that the question to the Government to answer orally about policies to ensure a sufficient number of health professionals has been withdrawn. [[Ask the Government about the changes in the housing model of lloger]] [[310-00182/12]] The first question is about the changes in the logger habitating model. Ask the question, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.28.0	Good morning, Counsellor Calvet. We would like to ask you if you believe that the Decree of Urgent Measures in the Content of Income, the Decree of Regulation of the Price of Llogers, will actually have an impact on the bottle of the price of the Llogers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.29.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word has the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.30.0	Good morning, President, Congresswoman. Yes, indeed, the government believes that it will have an impact, if not, we have not proposed and approved it. It is now close to Parliament, so validate it and then apply it to the joint meetings.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.31.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.32.0	Thank you very much. So no, we particularly don't think it has any impact on this bottle of loggers' prices. We think it's obvious that it's a more failed housing policy than his government did. Catalonia continues to lead the number of denunciations throughout the Spanish State. Denominations continue to grow in Catalonia, 2018, even though the city of Barcelona has begun to download since 2015. Public spending in Catalonia on housing policies is frankly insufficient and ridiculous. We're watching decoys where the Mosses cover businesses that outsource people and we've seen them on repeated occasions. The star measure was the decree of urgent housing measures also was a failed decree, which did not have the support of locals or social organizations. And now we have a new farce decree, a new smoke decree, which was approved at the time of the campaign, that your government partner wanted to use it for an electoral campaign and that you, who told us in private and in public, of the right and the reverse that you do not believe in regulating the prices of loguers as a measure that remains effective, is going to have to pass. If you have to get over it, how did you get over it? It allowed it to be approved, emptying it with content, emptying it with impact to affect the regulation of the prices of the loggers. Perhaps that's why APIs are the only thing that has given them support, those that, precisely, earn with the price increases of loggers. Look, I'll give you an example of what the problem with your decree is: that it's based on a reference price index that's an index that's based on the bottle of the logger, because it's calculated from the market price. A 50_metre_square pea in Pobles Sec, according to the price index that you use to make this regulation, should cost 750_euros. With the 10_per_cent that you allow to increase on this index, it would pass by more than eight hundred, fifty_metres_squares, to the Poble-sec. Is that regulating the prices of the loguers? Is that taking family returns into account? But it's also the rule of exceptions: if you have good views, you can make a 5_per_cent more on what you give, for good views; out of the large surface habitats; the new buildings and major rehabilitations can be up to 20_per_cent on this price that marks the reference index. Mr. Calvet, it won't impact, it won't make a king. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] It was a farce decree...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.33.0	Congresswoman, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.34.0	...a smoke decree, which will serve no purpose, like all politics... [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone to the deputy and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.35.0	To answer, again, the word has the counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.36.0	Thank you, President. You make a statement to the permanent totality in housing policy that I believe, in fact, is based on a very low base, among other things because you, as a group, do not propose anything at all. A few days ago, the Government of the State passed a real decree, which held the gathering of Podemos, in which it is not talking about limitations of logger. This... you had the opportunity to change the world, so you added this limit to the price of calling and you didn't do it. In change, here in Catalonia the policies of housing take us seriously and fem and deploy a whole set of strategies and a whole set of plans, of programs: for example, therefore, funding for social entities and joint ventures because they promote or include floors with lots and withdrawals, the legislation that the Government of the Generality has made with Decree 1/2015, or now this decree; that this decree has no names or surnames, is neither a councillor nor a political party or another, it is the Government, and it is a decree that forms part of the strategies that we have to have or that we have to..., be able to have better policies of housing. And we're actually worried about the number of charges, but you said: "The year 2018 grew..., but in the first quarter of 2019 they decreased, concretely a 6.6_per_cent. And, therefore, we take this opportunity to continue working on the best housing policies that we can have in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the accident at the petrochemical complex of the Mafumet Village]] [[310-00189/12]] The next question is about the accident the petrochemical complex of the People of Mafumet ; question that asks, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed, the deputy lady Natàlia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.38.0	Hello, good morning, everyone. Good morning, Counselor. As you know, last May 31st there was an accident, with the result of an accident at work, one worker and another one was killed and badly injured, at the company Metal Carburos de la Pobla de Mafumet. He also knows perfectly well that the CUP has asked that it is essential that the Generalitat investigate and make public the reasons for the ammonia leak that took place on May 31st in this company. Thus, we have requested that the Generality make public the consequences of this accident for the emission of toxic chemical elements to the atmosphere, because it also knows very well that this accident is not an isolated case, but that it is a case of repeatedly denouncing the lack of assurance that the enterprises of the two petrochemical complexes present, and no longer only for the safety and security of their workers and workers, but also for the safety and security of the people of the municipalities suitable for these installations. Today, starting from the base that we believe it is essential to carry out an independent study of the quality of the area at Camp Tarragona, we want to ask him whether the Government of the Generality, which has declared the climate emergency, intends to make a study of the quality of the area with added economic resources and a contest to preserve its independence and neutrality at Camp Tarragona.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.39.0	To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.40.0	Yes, thank you, President. Member, to regret, first of all, that this accident has occurred and to regret, obviously, the loss of, if I do not recall it badly, two human lives in this accident that happened last week. At Camp Tarragona there is a concentration of the chemical industry which is of an added value to our country. We're talking about a generation of resources around EUR 16,000_million– I'm talking about business xifra – or a generation of jobs places too important: six thousand direct jobs places, practically five thousand indirect; we need to multiply this amount by three to reach the total number of jobs places, induced jobs places, a 90_percent stable contract. Therefore, we are talking about a very strategic industrial concentration for our country, which, obviously, donated the concentration and donated the natural activity, chemical industry, is very monitored, very monitored. We have the emissions grid, which measures the emissions of all the companies that are in these two industrial areas. We have the surveillance network – the surveillance network – with thirteen points of measurement that make it the densest network in Catalonia, and we could say that it is one of the densest in the world, comparable to the surveillance networks that have advanced countries with industrial concentrations of this natural. And the results of these networks, with accidents or without accidents – when there are accidents, there are measures, therefore, extraordinary – make it clear that, even if there are, therefore, obviously, emissions of chemical products, these concentrations do not suppose any danger either for the people who work there or for the people who live in the town hall of the turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.41.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.42.0	Well, no danger and there's a dead worker and another worker injured in gravity. Head perill. At the same time it insists on industrial concentration as a value added to our country, but it is precisely that the industrial concentration to the south of the princely is not a question..., there is not only a need to redistribute or rethink an industrial model, which causes the south of the princely to be hyperspecialized in contaminating industries and to intersect our territory. He didn't answer the question – look, I just made one –: will he drive a quality study of the area with economic resources attached to Camp Tarragona? It's more: there are people there who not up there the Generalitat, as in many other camps..., municipalities that do the work that the Generalitat is not willing to do, like the Morell, who know perfectly well that it has composed like the butadié and the Benze, that they are highly carcinogenic, in important places, such as the Morell school or the Morell institute. Therefore, we ask you again: will you make a quality study?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.43.0	Congresswoman, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.44.0	I, when he talks, please, ask him... [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone to the deputy and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.45.0	There's the word, again, the counselor. When he wants to. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Forward – forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.46.0	Yeah, now. Yes; they inform me that there are not two dead people, but one person who died; the other is in a difficult state. I'm sorry for the mistake. In any case, the study is done continuously: 52,000 data monitored daily, 1,600,000 data validated monthly..., 5,200 data validated monthly. We compromised ourselves by analyzing the benze in the quality table of the area I attended last year's October, and the benze is there, in the quality app of the area you can consult. And at Morell there's a point that forms part of this network. And, therefore, he is permanently a fan of these studies that you ask. If they get self-employed, they stick to what is the debate on the air quality table, but it's [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] a table of the quality of the air that works and donates data...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.47.0	Counselor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.48.0	...with transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.49.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about actions to consolidate research activity]] [[310-00180/12]] The next question is about the actions to consolidate the research activity, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Narcis Clara.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.50.0	Thank you, President. Members of the Government and Parliament, Councillor Chacón, last week announced that Barcelona had been chosen as one of the three European cities to host a new generation supercomputer. In this way, MareNostrum 5 will become one of the three most powerful equipments on the continent and the Barcelona Supercomputing Center will still be part of the global supercomputing elite. This is an example showing the value of Catalan research groups and the importance their department gives to research and innovation. This relevance is supported by the policies implemented for the most developed countries, given that economic growth, maintaining and improving the welfare state and creating quality employment are linked to an economy based on knowledge, research and innovation. In order to continue to advance in the best of our search model, we cannot seek definitive solutions, which do not exist; the best ones must be based on the already known success experiences, the particular experience of our administrations, and introducing incremental changes that allow us to measure the degree of success of the decisions taken and to adjust them conveniently. In this context, what does the information and data available indicate about our current situation? In the first place, and referring to university research, the position of the conjunction of the ranks of the Catalan universities is clearly above the middle of the whole conjunct of the Spanish State. This State is our main reference, as we are conditioned by its laws and regulations, more than a clearly unjust and insufficient financing. Secondly, the search centres grouped in the Cerca have achieved a remarkable success in their respective border search camps, as well as in the collection of resources, which have outstripped the investment made. In short, the straight path a few decades ago has proved to be profitable, proving that it has to continue in this direction. As a result, will you advise, how does the Government act to consolidate the research activity in Catalonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.51.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word "Constellera d'Empresa i Coneixement", Ms. Maria Àngels Chacón, is written. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.52.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. We are clear that the success of the search in Catalonia is due to two vectors: one, talent, and the other, infrastructure. Apart from that, we need to equip ourselves with a standard _frame. In this sense, we are working – it will be very soon – on the pre-draft of the law of science, this standard marque that fits. And we also understand that it is necessary to relate in a different way what is the university system, the research system, the innovation system and the enterprise, and that is why we are working in the National Knowledge Society Pact. For what he does to talent, it is obvious that there must be programs; there are some, like this program of Beatriu de Pinós; for the first time there will be a duration of three years; they have been allocated 8,66_million euros. The Knowledge Industry Call for 2019 has also been published, with a total import of €5 million. The Industrial Ph.D. platform has opened a call to finance a hundred more projects, for an import of 4,4_million euros. The call that has added more than 12_million euros to the university systems and the transfer of knowledge. The call for clusters in emerging technologies has also been published. And, obviously, we're also about to open a call for innovators. All this, in parallel with the programs of the Young Search Awards, the Recerkids, etcetera. That's about talent. And then, as far as infrastructure is concerned, obviously, all the old ones, the ones from the I-Cerca centers. Also, to put three concrete examples, that of the National Centre of Genomic Analysis; this is also a world reference, located in the Scientific Park of Barcelona. The Alba synchro, the particle accelerator in which we are working from eight to twelve lines of light; is working now on the ninth. To remember that we have concluded an agreement with Portugal, recently, with financing of more than 10_million euros. And, obviously, what has been news this week has been this co-financing of the European Union, this bet, this yes to the candidacy that we presented for the supercomputer, the most important reversal that is made to the peninsula in search, with a total of 200_million euros, with international support as well. And we understand, as we've been explaining these days, not just contributing to... [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.53.0	Counselor, time is up. [[Pause.]] [[Ask the Government about the justification for the increase of the endowment of the campaign "6 years ago. Sort a Book]] [[310-00181/12]] The next question is about the justification for the increase of the endowment of the campaign« 6 years ago. Tria un libre, que formula el Gruppo Parlamentari de Junts per Catalunya. You have the word for it, Mr Lluís Font.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.54.0	Thank you, President. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament..., councillor Vilallonga, the international studies on educational quality note the importance of reading competence in itself and as a vehicle to develop the various capacities, the multiple intelligences of the students. Without understanding what you are reading, it is difficult to learn and conreate your own talent in the various disciplines in which it is presented. That is why the education system is not aware of, but getting a good reading understanding is not an exclusive task of the teachers; it involves the seas and the parents and the set of institutions that configure the cultural world. The campaign that his department has driven and is continuing to push back 6 years ago. Tria a book frames itself in this shared front, which points to the educational success of all and each of the students. The concrete objective is not enough to stimulate the reading habits of children of six years old, and that children discover books with an adult and that they learn, therefore, to give value to the book. It is a matter of enhancing the reading habit, which I can say, when they are children: "I read because I like it, I read because it enriches me, and when they are young, or rather forward, I can see: "Reading has made me live many lives in one alone. Reading is a vital adventure that no one does for me, and that we, like adults, can say: "I read to be free, I read to the kingdoms of my existence, to signify my life in the Nietzschean way. A campaign that is done in collaboration with the Gremi de Llibreters and that reverses the initiative of civil society, as is the case in this country. A campaign involving three hundred bookshops and nearly eighty thousand students. The question is: why has their department increased the presuppositional, guany, endowment of this campaign? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.55.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question you have the word Culture Counsellor, Mrs. Maria Àngela Vilallonga. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.56.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Well, the reason we increased this campaign match was six years ago. Sorting a book is very simple: because the campaign was a success. This campaign stands out, it is defined in the 2020 reading platform and it is aimed especially, as you said very well, at children of six years old. There are countries that give a book when a child is born. We thought it was worth more than the child at the bookstore, sticking to all the prescriptions than the master at the classes did, listening to his parents, listening to the librarians, and he himself, as you said very well, was able to sort out a book from a bookstore, from one of these more than three hundred books participating in this campaign. This campaign is a campaign of which we can be very happy, all folded, because it is a campaign that comes out of the Department of Culture but that actively participates with the Department of Education, and this fact, the fact that two departments of this Government, shows what has been emphasized since the beginning of this Government: the cross-cutting nature of culture. And it's not just with the Education Department; it was made a special board of governments to show precisely that culture was in all the departments of this government, there were more than two hundred actions that showed this fact. Well, we're not very happy with this campaign, and it's an exhibition of this fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.57.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the government about the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra]] [[310-00185/12]] The next question is about the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, and the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, Mr Carles Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.58.0	Good morning, everybody. The question is for the change of head to Mossos, but it also goes for the political use of the body and preparation for a future political use even more accentuated and worrying that they are realizing in a calculated way and that we want to denounce. First of all, the general situation. It is so sad, that different populations are contracting private vigilance to ensure minimal security in their streets or recovering the serene. They're doing you the favor of devoting money to the police system, or that system's getting spooked. A police of reference, of relation and of work to the territory, which certainly is, but thanks only to the dedication of its staff; staff that you see as in extensive territories there is a city security patrol. And, look, I'm going to set as an example precisely the patrolmen, the civilian security units. They hold the security of the city with the local police on all the streets of Catalonia, abandoned, without means, more hours than a clock, in hours up to twelve hours on the street, at night, with a brutal extreme, "presses without a professional career perspective – are you not fulfilling the law – and mistreats, when you have a real salvation problem, for the very Health Watch of your department. These patrols, Mr. Counsellor, see how they support and contract advisors at €76,000 per year for the escort of Mr. Puigdemont; see, new crack, a unit, the ASI, of privileges– count, that I did not say Stasi, I said ASI, Institutional Security Area – that they claim to be an innocent unit of escorts to donate excluded services to the president and expressors. What do you think we're rucs, counselor? Why not the escort unit of Mossos's entire life? What is the explanation for creating a totally opaque unit in its creation and opaque in staff selection? And why the change now? I've never seen an internal process where no one – I repeat, no one – can know the list of choices for this noble cause that we don't understand what it's for. And to finish it, Mr. Counselor, the commissari shift to the head. Perhaps he wanted to be brief, the step of Commissioner Esquius – he said so himself – but it was lightning at the first change. As he says in his coma card, he took it by surprise, to him and to the whole thing. Then they don't want it to be said that the Cos de Mossos is politicized. So creating opaque units at the same thing as moss and changing commissari to head every two by three... so what do you want me to say to him, counselor? A little respect and stability may not mislead them to the effect. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.59.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question you have the word the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.60.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Well, he did, let's just say, in two minutes and a half, a bunch of things that I think I need an answer a little deeper, but, well, in those two minutes and a half I'll try... [[For technical reasons, some words of the advisor's intervention have not been recorded.]] ...all the questions he's asked, right? From the start, I found it very difficult for you to talk about police officers like patrolmen. Anyway, they're city security agents, they're the old ones... they're the ones we meet every day on the street, they're not just patrolmen. They're people who get out of the car every day, turn around, get out of the car, and they don't know what they're gonna find. Therefore, I would ask you for a little more respect, which is the great section, which are the ones that are every day within walking distance. So don't treat them like patrolmen. He told me about the lack of staff. You're right, I said that by active and passive. But you can't deny that this government has not done everything possible, because we, in six months, have made a promotion of 750 people, and we have a forecast of more than 750 people, because when we asked Minister Marlaska, who is from his party, he told us that "girl, who wouldn't let us hire more police, or did that, when we ask the government of the Spanish State to return 700_million euros to us that the government of the Spanish State gives us in the matter of Mosos d'Esquadra that would help us to deal with all this expense... so the government of the Spanish State also says no, and it's the government of the PSOE. So it's good that you're complaining about us... because I want to be better, and that you're here in an active way help me – help me. But he has to do the same with his own, with his own in Madrid; he also asks them to return our money, to let us make promotions, and from here we all go a little better. He talked about the ASI. I don't understand what the problem is. That's what works in Spain since Leopoldo Calvo Sotelo; and now they're worried here in Catalonia? – now they're worried here in Catalonia? Or, the one who served for President Zapatero, for President González, for President Sánchez, who is now..., with these can do, and not here. Why do they want to have first-class Spanish citizens and second-class Catalan citizens? Is it that we cannot also have an area of institutional security for the President here, as well as the Spanish State? What's the matter? And respect the police chief, listen, we've made a renovation. Since the first appearance I made here, in the plan of government talks about the modernization of the body, we are modernizing the body. We have a cup of twenty commissioners from the first, second and third promotion, and now...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.61.0	Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.62.0	...use the... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.63.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Carles Castillo Rosique asks to speak.]] Why ask me the word? No, there are no acclaims – you know, Congressman – in the questions to the government. [[Ask the Government about cases of corruption in Catalonia]] [[310-00186/12]] Let's move on to the next question. These are cases of corruption in Catalonia. The question is raised, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, by Mrs Munia Fernández-Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.64.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Counselor, this Tuesday they announced twenty-five anti-corruption measures; wet paper, after removing Oriol Pujol from prison, against the discretion of the prison supervisory judge. In the past year, have they taken other measures against corruption?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.65.0	To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor d'Acció Exterior, Institutional Relations and Transparency, the Lord Alfred Bosch. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.66.0	So, Mrs Fernández, yes, I thank her for the opportunity: indeed, this week the Government of Catalonia approved a strategy of fighting corruption, which is in addition to all that we have done since years ago in the area of open government and transparency, with innovative, cutting-edge measures, such as that of civic alerters, ethical compasses, measures to improve public procurement, measures to improve the system of subsidies, taxation... If you have more proposals, go ahead. If the only one you want to do is recriminate, which is what you know how to do, then patience, but also forward. What do you want me to say?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.67.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.68.0	Thank you. You have only done two things with corruption: or nothing or cover it up to prevent your friends from going to jail or to get those out of it, as is the case with Oriol Pujol. According to the barometer of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia, 71_per_cent of the citizenry considers that there is or a lot or enough corruption, and you, covering it with stellate and looking elsewhere. Because those who have stolen at full hands are members of their parties. No citizen in Sant Cugat, my city, deserves to rise on a Sunday with the news in the media of: « Sant Cugat, capital of 3_per_cent; and that happened to us a year ago. Because the worst is not the news. The worst is that it is based on the letter of the judgement of the Palau case, where it was proved that people working in the city council had contributed to that common box called Convergence before, then PDECAT, and changing its name continuously, public money, pure corruption. Last Sunday we also dawned with the news that the prosecutor's office of the High Court of Justice has told the police to investigate the City of Sant Cugat, for the modus operandi in their hiring: payments to suppliers without bidding, invoices without any control, without advertising... We denounce it, but it is that the intervener corroborated it. And these days we know that the prosecution is investigating a cost over the sale of weapons to the Mossos. And so on, in every corner of Catalonia. And in this Parliament its partners, its government partners, investigated as a party for the crimes of influence trafficking, coed and money laundering. Come on, that in the end it's like putting the wolf to take care of the sheep. We see it, and so do the citizens. But corruption is often uncovered by free people facing power, anonymous people who, in this society where you trample on your rights and freedoms, dare to denounce and take a step forward. Bad news for you: free and courageous people make up every municipal group of citizens throughout Catalonia; every councilman will check, until he is breathless if necessary, that he does not take possession of a...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.69.0	Congresswoman, time's up. [[Greetings.]] To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.70.0	Your Honor, if you have any clues about anything, actually, tax. If not, listen, let's learn from Ciutadans about corruption, no, huh? No, because I don't know if it's funny or if it's tragic anymore. Miri, you are specialists in the arm of the most corrupt party in Europe, the People's Party, all the way, supporting them all the way, a party that has embezzled 48,000_million euros! [[applause]] , with 248 proven cases of corruption, with firm convictions... And I came here to donate sweets... Miri, I'll tell you about my party, the Republican Left of Catalonia. Do you know why you don't have cases of corruption? [[Widow's remorse.]] Because he ruled and ruled hundreds of assemblies, the same government of the Generality, the deputies, for years, and because he ruled with transparency and integrity. That's why there are no cases of corruption. Do you know why Ciutadans has no cases of corruption in Catalonia? He knows it, because he doesn't rule in place, nor has he ruled in place; because he doesn't have a mayor, zero mayors. So, of course... now, where you do have responsibilities, man, where things have happened. Escotti, cas Cazorla, Almeria, candidate for mayor, his, imputed; cas Espartinas, Sevilla, mayor his, resign; cas Enredadera, Madrid, Comunidad de Madrid, mayor his detention per fraud! Listen to me, at the right time, and at a few places where you've had responsibilities, you've gone from PP fellows to masters in the practice of corruption. [[Greetings.]] They do humanity a favor, they do humanity a favor, people of the PP: enough to escape dirt, back off their own dirt and let those of us who wear eighty-eight years of political net. Thank you very much. [[Greetings. Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.71.0	The next one... calm down, quiet down... [[Ask the Government about child education]] [[310-00187/12]] The next question is about children's education, and the formula is Mrs Sonia Sierra, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.72.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. Counselor. You've been head of the Department of Education for a year. And do you know how many your accomplishments have been? Zero. Exactly the same amount that you dedicate to daycare centers, zero_euros. Every year, you give 400,000 euros to French schools, but you dedicate zero euros to Catalan day care. You have given EUR 600,000 to British universities, but you dedicate EUR zero to Catalan day care. I mean, money for your friends in France and Britain, not money for Catalan day care. Counselor, in case all this were not enough, he is now dedicated to announcing the closure of P3 lines and to sowing unrest in families. Do you undertake not to close lines of P3, to lower ratios and to make day care centers free, as proposed by Citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.73.0	To answer the word, the education advisor, Mr. Josep Bargalló. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.74.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Thank you, Mrs Sierra, for your question from each Ple. And I also appreciate that this time I didn't ask for language – at the moment. For what he does to P3, to Catalonia this September we will have 1,476 infants less than in the P3 of the past year. If you want to keep the same classrooms with 1,476 children less, you don't have to know how to manage public money. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.75.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.76.0	Mr. Counsellor, for management disaster, yours, which even the unions are asking for your resignation. Even a union very close, very close to you asks you to resign. If they don't even support him anymore. Look, child education is essential for the students' subsequent academic success and also for the reconciliation of work and family life; and we already know that when conciliation is not possible, it is women who are often harmed. But it is also that educators have to be able to perform their work under optimal conditions, and for that reason, it is necessary to lower ratios. And you, instead of lowering ratios, what you do is close lines of P3. Well, closing down lines of P3 is making it difficult for many families to see with concern how they will not be able to take their children to the nearest center or to the one with their preferred educational model. Look, Mr. Counselor, you have families standing at war and you have unions asking for your resignation. You are a clear example of Torra's disgovernment, unable to solve the real problems of Catalans. You're like the Titanic orchestra, playing on deck as the boat sinks. Counselor, put yourself to work at once to solve the real problems of Catalans and answer those families who see that they can't take their children to day care because they don't have money, or see how they close P3 lines while they give our money to their friends in other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.77.0	To answer, the counselor again has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.78.0	Thank you, Mr. President. To give an example, 93.26_percent of requests for P3 seats in the city of Barcelona, which is a difficult city for the lack of offering seats in five barrels..., 93.26_per_percent has filled the required space in the first option. Therefore, this is a bit per cent very high – very high. In these moments, which we have not yet closed the pre-registration, there are some centers that have fewer lines of P3 than the past year and some centers that have more. And the final downsizing of groups of P3 to the public will be lower than the final downsizing of groups of P3 to the concerta, even though there is much more public offer and, therefore, more public centers than concerta centers. There are some democratic moves that the school needs to be resolved, because the school schools students according to the social reality and according to the democratic reality. In this sense, the download of routes does not have to play only from more or fewer groups of P3, which I say to you that, in the initial offer we made, there were as many groups of P3 as last year, even if there were 1,476 children less, so it was a guaranteed offer; I also have to tell you that no family that has selected a public center is left without public space. Captain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.79.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about the management of the prison system]] [[310-00188/12]] The next question is about the management of the prison system. The question is raised, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, by Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.80.0	Yes; thank you, President. Mrs. Capella, have you read the release of the prison guard judge who revokes the third degree and orders Oriol Pujol's return to prison?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.81.0	To answer the question you have the word justicia's counselor, Mrs. Ester Capella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.82.0	Mrs. Roldán – very good morning to everyone – so I didn't read it, because she didn't address this counselor. In any case, the resolution must say what it says and, therefore, listen to me, we always respect all judicial resolutions. I have no doubt, I have no doubt that we respect all judicial resolutions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.83.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.84.0	Thank you, President. Well, I'm not surprised you haven't read it or read it because we already know the little respect you have for court decisions. And also, as they had no intention of obeying it, why were they going to read this car? But I'm going to explain to you, Mrs. Capella, what the prison guard judge says. The judge says that prisoners have the right to be classified to the appropriate degree from the two months of detention in the prison. In fact, you answered this yourself when they decided to give the third degree to Oriol Pujol. Well, Mrs Capella, you lied in Parliament; you know it very well and the judge also confirms it in your car. Oriol Pujol entered prison on 17 January and you gave him third grade on 14 March. It's just that you haven't even been able to comply with the prison law, really. And don't come after me with the tale of blaming the officials, which we have already seen this morning with the request to bring Forn to Catalonia who handles the threads: you, Mrs. Capella. Fifty-five days in prison. Fifty-five days in prison, where you intend to make us believe that this gentleman, who is condemned for documentary falsity, for coercedness and for trafficking in influences– go, what is a corrupt of all life, eh? –, you want to make us believe that in fifty_and_five_days it has been rehabilitated. Of course, a person who has been delinquent for years, taking advantage of his status as a politician, a gentleman who is convicted in the case of ITV, but is also accused in the Pujol case. And it turns out he's magically rehabilitated in fifty-five days and you get him out on the street. Follow the judge's car as well and explain what that supposed magic treatment that cures the corrupt in just fifty days is. This is the Morals and Values programme. And the judge says that we do not know if it has had any re-educational effect on Mr Pujol's criminal conduct, consisting of, I open quotes, "covelation. Oriol Pujol, known as "the prince, " l'hereu, took advantage of his status as a deputy and his public activity to delinquent for years, undermining citizens' confidence in the institutions. And you now, with your conduct, do so again by putting the hereus on the street, precisely because you are the heir to the 3_per_cent gang leader. It's indecent what you're doing, Mrs. Capella. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.85.0	To answer, once again you have the word the lady counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.86.0	Yes, Mrs. Roldán, you read Organic Law 1/79, of September 26, which is the General Prison Law, and its regulation? Look, it's the first organic law that was approved after the Faixist rule. If you had been to Congress and the Senate this law surely would not have been approved, because this law speaks of reintegration and resocialization, of the rights of persons deprived of liberty. Yes, Mrs. Roldán, don't tell me two months. Yes, indeed, because we comply with the law, we comply with the prison regulations. The Treatment Board is a technical body. I'll explain it to you a thousand times. I already know that you don't care about the truth – don't tell me, Mrs. Roldán – you don't care about the truth. And the truth is that the Department of Justice, the public workers of the Department of Justice, of criminal measures, of prison services, complete the law and the prison regulations. There's a treatment board that has to make the observation and the rule proposal – I'll repeat it a thousand times – and that's what they've done. They must do so within the maximum two_months– maximum two_months. Miri, escorti'm, we are not the ones who dictate the judicial resolutions; we owe to the end the criminal executions, in conformity with the organic law. It's an organic law. Does that sound like an organic law? You should have known. And, I remember, the first organic law that was approved at the beginning of democracy in the Spanish State. Doesn't that tell you anything? Look at what this law says: « The penal institutions that regulate this law – its first article says – « it is... – should have you taxed to its office–, « they have as their primary objective the re-education and social reintegration of convicts to penalties and criminal measures deprived of liberty, as well as the detention and custody of detainees, prisoners and prisoners. Tell him more things. « Penitentiary activity – in its third article, the article... Yes, the lady judge of prison vigilance also has to apply it, this law. He says: "The prison activity must always be carried out in accordance with the human personality of closed persons and their legal rights and interests... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.87.0	Counselor, your time is running out. Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about the Català Council of Food]] [[310-00183/12]] The next question is about the Català Council of Alienance and the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the MP Irene Fornós.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.88.0	Thank you very much. President, councillor, advisors, deputies, deputies, good morning. A question that I addressed to the Honourable Councillor Teresa Jordà, but that once I take advantage of to expose all the present here today in this plenary, and I do so with the will that we aim to reflect all and all on the importance of our paper for what it does to the food of our country, and not only with the justification of the more than repeated and known expression of "we are at what we eat, but also for everything there is at the time and around the food. The presentation of the Català de l'Alimentation Council, promoted by the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, which re-tabled a tool of country that, like many others, was affected by the fact that Article 155 was applied to the Catalan Government. The act counted with the presence of three referents of our country in the world of food, the Carme Ruscalleda, the Joan Roca and also the Abel Moliné, professor of nutrition. But we did not only count on these presences, but also with more than a hundred assistants to the act, people linked to the pages, the industry, the industry, the economy, health, education, gastronomy, etc. And it's that, as Mr. Moliné's intervention recalled, only food and everything that turns around means 33_percent of Catalan GDP, and that, if not, also deserves our attention. In short, it was almost all the indispensable and indispensable protagonists that we could enjoy a nutrition of proximity, quality, safety, balance, with the aim of completing not only with the reptiles of the WHO, but also with the guarantees of food sovereignty, which, from republican governance and co-management, with the involvement of all the agents of the food chain, we could make possible. The Català de l'Aminentació Council provides the basis for a new food policy in the country, based on local food production and sustainable environmental management. Moreover, it must promote dynamism, the generational replenishment the socioeconomic cohesion of all the regions and, as we have said, strengthen the food sovereignty of the country. We need to put food at the centre of Catalan politics, and here in Parliament we have a big paper. Counselor, you've been selling we've had a full rubber audit of people who clearly care about the creation of the Català de l'Aminentación Council, but there have certainly been absences as well...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.89.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.90.0	...of deputies and deputies. Can you explain to us... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.91.0	To answer the question you have the word Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, Mrs Teresa Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.92.0	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... MP Fornós, thank you very much for the question. In fact, every time I am asked here in Parliament to take advantage of it – and I must thank you today – to re-establish our sector – the agricultural sector, the branching sector, the fisheries sector, the forestry sector – is an extremely important sector for this country. Like I said, this department and this councilman will believe it and that's it, huh? And we don't just believe it, but, precisely for this reason, we have a sequence of tools to enable us to put the value of this sector in full through different policies. One of them is, as you very well explained, this Català Council of Food, which we had the honour of presenting here in Parliament on the last day of the 7th. The Català Council of Food must be the place of debate where just the food themes are dealt with, huh? , taking into account all the points of view, that there are many and different, also different, but always with a complete view, with an integral view, with a 360 degree view, in short. This Català Council of Food must define a long-term compromise, a broad-based compromise to develop, from a vision, as it would, complete, with all the actors of society and also all the agents of the agri-food chain, a joint country action – I repeat, a joint country action – which allows all economic, climatic, social, current and future challenges to be addressed; in short, to put in value excellence or to achieve food excellence in this country, in Catalonia. We have, therefore, the tool, which is this Català Council of Food. Now we're going to deploy different jobs with different groups, with four groups that are essential to grab the whole joint. The first, that of the food chain; the second, that of competitiveness and internationalization; the third, the gastronomy and the territories, and the fourth, the malarbaratement or the profit and sustainability. And this is the main mission of this Catalan council, which must serve to make a country pact, to reach a national pact for food policy, which set a new country food policy, as you said, co-managed, is to say, by making this republican co-government that characterizes us between the government, the sector and the citizens. In the end, this country has many challenges, and it has a great revolution to do and win, which is the revolution of social justice. It is essential to be well-fed, because we will very much need it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.93.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the President of the Generalitat on urgent measures against money laundering]] [[317-00106/12]] Let's turn to the questions to the President of the Generality, and the first question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.94.0	Thank you, President. Well, as it already happened throughout 2018, in the first three months of 2019 Catalonia again leads the ranking of the entire Spain of evictions, especially in those related to rent. What urgent measures – and I stress urgent measures – are you going to take to reverse this dramatic situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.95.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.96.0	Yes; good morning, Mr. Deputy. During the term of President Puigdemont, very important measures were already put in place to avoid, precisely, what you say. We have followed in this same line, increasing the presuppositional endowment so that it cannot pass, introducing new measures, regulations, such as the law decree to stop the push of the increase in the price of logger.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.97.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.98.0	Thank you, President. It is clear that these measures you are commenting on have been an absolute failure. I insist, in the first three months of 2019, Catalonia again leads the ranking of rental evictions throughout Spain. I would like to comment on urgent measures, because you have indeed put some measures on the table, but in the short term they do not have any repercussions. You're talking about the price intervention. There is absolute unanimity that in the short term this does not solve the problem of evictions. And there is no unanimity, but a broad consensus, in which in the medium and long term it will not have a great result either. And at the time you were commenting on the proposal of your predecessor, Mr Puigdemont, who actually announced a plan for an ambitious public rental housing park that you made your own in your first intervention, but that nothing is known, absolutely nothing is known three years after what they announced. Could you please explain to us what urgent steps you will take to reverse this situation? And I ask you not to answer me, as you usually do in these control sessions, that with the Republic will be solved as by magic. And in the meantime, what? I ask you, please, also, that, as you have done on other occasions, do not tell me that I have no right to ask you because I have only four Members. We already know the concept of democracy he has, but hide it a little. We ask for concrete measures – concrete measures – to reverse a situation, that of evictions, which in Catalonia is the worst in Spain and which is absolutely dramatic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.99.0	To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.100.0	Yes, Mr. Deputy. Measures and data also, if it seems to you, as I also assume that when the assessment of this first year of government comes back we will have the opportunity to contrast data, real data, data that allows us, therefore, to have a debate on figures. Look, the trend of the past few years has been to reduce the number of charges. For example, the 5,44_per_cent less 2017 than 2016; the 9,6_per_cent less 2016 than 2015. From 16,000 denominations in the year 2013, we have gone to 13,000, almost 14,000, denominations in the year 2018. That is to say, the 23_per_cent of which today represents the Spanish State. We avoided the year past more than four thousand counts and between 2012 and 2018 we avoided 27,377 counts, that is, more than two counts a day– more than two counts a day. Work of Government, 2018. What have we done this year? 3.519 Emergencies aid for families unable to pay or lodge a mortgage; 73,000 aid for the payment of an import of EUR 133_million. We've done more than 2,330 mediation actions through the Ofideute to renegotiate debts or get the pay date, from which we've come to an agreed solution in nearly seven hundred cases. We have reallocated 3,684 families at risk of losing the house in habitations of the Generalitat de Catalunya. And from 2012 to 2017, which seems to me that it is also worth considering to see the trend, there were 3,651 awards of months of emergency, and from 2012 to 2018, there were 4,491 awards. The last dice, of 50_millions that were invested the year passed in payments of the habitat – the year 2012, forgiveness –, we have passed to 138_millions the year 2018. That is to say, we have almost increased the expenditure by 180_per_cent, the reversal we are making in this sector.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.101.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the statements of the Councillor of the Presidency to give a country response according to whom the Barcelona Assembly will lead]] [[317-00108/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Ms.Jéssica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.102.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, we'd like to know if you endorse the words of the government spokesman, Meritxell Budó, speaking of a country response according to whom the Barcelona Assembly was led. And if she doesn't quit, if you've thought of stopping her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.103.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.104.0	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Congresswoman. The government's spokesman is the entire government's spokesman and she expresses what we are deliberating on the government, and she has all my confidence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.105.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.106.0	Yes, President. The truth is that it is not expected to be less worrying about this answer, because Mrs. Meritxell Budo made some improbable statements from a government spokesman who has to represent not only the government, but all the citizens. And in this case, Mrs. Budó was not accepting democracy and the possibility that Mrs. Ada Colau would revalidate the mayor of Barcelona with a transformation project that served as a reference and inspiration to other cities in Catalonia, Spain and the world. [[Rialles.]] And he didn't just have unfortunate words on this occasion either, because he was also allowed to talk about giving a country answer before a situation that is absolutely democratic normal, as it is to form an alternative majority to the most voted list, as it will happen in other cities. I don't know if Lleida and Tarragona are on it, I'm sure they've got news from Lleida and Tarragona, too. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] How does it fit... - Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.107.0	Quiet, and please. Go on, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.108.0	How do Lleida and Tarragona fit into this alleged state operation? But it is that, moreover, Mrs. Budo made an embolism herself when she insisted that independence had won in Barcelona, when the numbers were obvious, as she herself said. It was then reaffirmed in these harmful statements and, in the end, did not want to answer a journalist who asked a question to the government's press wheel in the castle, because it had not been done in Catalan. President, so we are not, in fact, a fatal year, and the patrimony of institutions is a dangerous practice that can lead to corruption. The words, the truth, of Mrs. Budó remind us a lot of those words that Mrs. Marta Ferrusola said in 2004 when she felt that they were being robbed by the government and that it was as if they were coming home. And that's why we're asking them to rectify, because Catalonia deserves a lot more. Catalonia deserves a government that does not forget the half of the city, it deserves a government that governs and that governs throughout the city, and it also deserves a government that works to eradicate the main fracture that we have in Catalonia, which is inequality, and this must be done by leaving aside the frontisms and by making great agreements. And with these statements it's impossible. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.109.0	To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.110.0	Madam Member, I think that from this government, from the groups that support this government, we have always held the hand to which you represent politically. To negotiate the assumptions, the times that were hot, we gathered together the times that were hot; to start that dialog table with the State, and you made very constructive proposals. But the time has come for you to decide, and you have to tell us where you are at these times, because we have lost ourselves. You have to say where you are, where you are. Do you know what it means... do you know what it means to support Mr. Valls, the votes of Mr. Valls? Do you know what this will mean? [[Greetings.]] Do you know what that means? Mr. Valls' vote is the vote of the establishment, it's the vote of the air bridge. [[remorse of the voice]] , it is the caste's vote, yes, yes, of what the establishment represents, that is what represents the powers of the State. The powers of the State, all set aside just to prevent the most voted list, the list of which was the adviser of this Government, of Mr Maragall, from being the mayor of Barcelona. You decide... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.111.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.112.0	You decide or choose who won the elections and sit in the block of defense of rights and freedoms – that's what you learn – or you learn the pact with Ciutadans, with Mr. Carrizosa. [[Widow's remorse.]] Listen to this – listen to this – you, this dissipation. And you're important. I say to me: "Escoltin, patrimonialize the institutions, but who patrimonializes the Assembly of Barcelona if not Mrs. Colau? What do you want, right or wrong? Right a box? [[Greetings.]] Shall we settle down, you guys? They have a magnificent opportunity, there are some magnificent hours left, taking advantage of them, do not invade the block of those we are on the side of rights and freedoms. They have an opportunity that they should not spoil, for their voters, for whom they represent, for which we lived yesterday. Voting and accepting Mr. Valls' votes is the opposite of what our associates did yesterday in the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.113.0	President, time is running out. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the President of the Generality whether you think it is possible to reconcile loyalty to a political project with the institutional understanding that corresponds to the office of President of the Generality]] [[317-00105/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.114.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Very honorable President of the Generality, and after you have heard it now, is it possible for you to combine loyalty to a political project with the understanding that corresponds to the exercise of your high institutional responsibility?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.115.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.116.0	Yeah. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.117.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.118.0	Thank you very much, President. So I want to help you. [[Rialles.]] You may wish that the country's assemblies are governed by major independenceists, only you would miss. But you cannot, in any case, deny the legitimacy of establishing other types of majority, whether homogeneous or transversal, neither you, your government's spokesman, nor any member of the Executive Board. You have every right to defend a determined political project, but you have no right to deny the catalanity of other political projects that democratically express themselves in our country. It makes sense to remember, but I have to do it. Every citizen in Catalonia is equal in rights and rights. We must respect the election results. All votes are equal. All the elected have the attributes that they recognize the laws. Any pact that frees itself between democratic political forces is legitimate, and the electoral law's forecasts are mandatory when it comes to electing mayors and mayors. They'll like you better or less, but you have the obligation to respect all the mayors of Catalonia, as well as show respect to all Catalans and all Catalans. And, therefore, president, I return to say it there, you can express your desire for the establishment of independent majorities, but you cannot in any case deny legitimacy to different majorities. When a candidate for mayor obtained a simple majority of votes and governors, but meets with the equally democratic will of an absolute majority of governors who elect as mayor or mayor another person, this democratic decision must be respected at all times, in Barcelona or in Gelida. I hope no one has forgotten this golden rule. I can see, and more than anyone else has to do with the President of the Generalitat, the whole country and not just the part with which it coincides most. This is the way in which loyalty can legitimately be reconciled with a political project and the institutional capture of the Presidency of the Generality. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.119.0	To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.120.0	Yes, thank you. After this answer too, it seems that the bipartite of the Barcelona Assembly, therefore, goes to full sail. But, look, you're asking a few questions, and I'm asking myself too. He says: "Are all votes equal? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr. Iceta, really all the votes, all the voters have the same rights, Mr. Iceta. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Yeah, sure. Why did you just go to the Congress of Deputies? What just happened to the Spanish Senate? Elected Members [[applause and voice of the background]] suspicions, suspicions... – no, no, no, no –, suspicions, without a court order – without a court order – for the president... – that thanks to God is Catalan – for President Batet [[remorse of the voice]] I'm supposed to be...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.121.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.122.0	...suspensions of self and social security, with what this means for families, that they depend on our companies, suspicions of self and social security. And there are families that depend on having a state of social security. So I'm not talking about equal rights and equal rights, so between the elites. And you're talking about institutional ownership. Listen, I'm sending a letter to Mr. Pedro Sánchez to meet me there, a very simple letter, to say that we can meet, what is urgent? – I think it's urgent –, and at the..., nothing, right now they're telling me no. But what dialect – what dialect –, what institutional capture would you ask us..., of a government president who is refusing to meet with the president of Catalonia? It's time to start seeing what a difference there is between the PP and the PSOE beyond rhetoric, photos, and this empty way of focusing politics; we need to move on to the fact– we need to move on to the fact. And there's been a lot of things going on in this country. There is a resolution from the UN's working group calling for the immediate inn to be set free for our companies. And that's not enough for the Spanish prosecution and the Kingdom of Spain, and that includes the government of Pedro Sánchez. Incompliments every week. Not only the suspensions of deputies and senators; we also knew the territorialized 10_per_cent reversal in Catalonia. Why don't you ever complain about this? Why aren't they complaining about this reversal? [[Greetings.]] In order not to forget the great proscriber, Mr Borrell, therefore, who has already ceased the Edinburgh Consol because he simply said what any Democrat would say. Mirin... – I see the time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.123.0	Time's up, actually. President... [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the need to find a unitary strategy that challenges 80 per cent of citizens]] [[317-00109/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.124.0	Benvolgut president, yesterday the trial ended, this judgment of shame. In the meantime, we saw the defenses pull all the charges out again, but it's unlikely that this has very little or no effect. Yesterday we were able to rehearse the voices of political prisoners defending democracy again, the votes, the ballot boxes, making it clear once more that this has been a political trial, that the prisoners..., who are not imprisoned for their actions only for their ideas and for some ideas that are ultimately easy, sensual and universal: the permanent and peaceful defense of democracy and freedom. They are in prison to defend the same as 80 percent of this country: that important decisions are always taking a vote and that the political solution in Catalonia is a reference. They have judged democracy, the vote and the ballot box, they have judged our right to express ourselves, they have as their objective to condemn all Catalan independenceists, to scare us, to scare us and to ensure that we will never again be misled. And they are not aware that in this trial everything has been played out, that what is at stake is the limits of democracy and that this will weigh them for decades. They're wrong, and a lot, when they think they only judge the independenceists, because who they judge the same democracy, because they're deciding what we can talk about and what we can't talk about, because, ultimately, they're judging all those to whom we don't move, hate or resent, but the good faith and the values of justice and prosperity. And while they do it, it's obvious once more that this state, its justice and its keystrokes don't know us. Because if they didn't scare those who until yesterday were judged, they won't do us for the rest. Because we have a cleaner, more freer, more just country to build, and neither their threats nor their repression nor their attacks will ever stop us. We are, President, legitimately convinced that the best way to help and serve the citizens of Catalonia is with the tools of a state. But we are also convinced that we must decide this together and vote. And as we've moved him to this Tuesday's meeting, president, this job is not just ours; this country managed to move forward when all the meetings, organization and games, we agreed. And now, president, we're interviewing him on this line, because we can't wait any longer, because we need to draw a joint path, we need a unitary strategy, and we need 80 percent of the citizenry, and they owe it to them. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] who have represented us...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.125.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.126.0	...from the defendants' banquet. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.127.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.128.0	Yes, honourable Member, yes, I subscribe to your words, and more so after having attended yesterday, to the same room of the Supreme Court, to see, with that barrage of emotion and dignity, as our fellow prisoners make attachments that I think the qualification of "historic" deserve and that, without any doubt, we would remember in this country for a long time. There's an old feeling that you say that if you want something to happen, then, see and see that it happens, that the only thing that comes from the sky is the rain. If we want independence, let us go and let us pass independence. What you are saying, with the petition of this strategic unit, is that I subscribe absolutely. The first of October, why was it possible? Because there was an alignment of everything that brought us to the first of October: a government, a compromised city, a few entities, much more than the independent entities, also rich in celebration of the self-determination referendum. That's what we need to get: to get back that first-octubre wire that should never have been broken. And this happens, as my friend Jordi Cuixart would say, not only for the shared struggles; the struggles are shared, but the freedoms are solid. And we need this solidarity in the freedom of the country's territory. And now we have a great opportunity, in the constitution of the assemblies and the deputies. I ask, and I repeat it again, because I have made it public..., I ask together with independent mayors and independent governments, because the strategic unit passes first through here, passes because this capillary that we have from the country with mayors and independent governments also gives us strength so that we can do it again. Because yes – yesterday Jordi Cuixart said so and I also subscribe, as the other companies signed it – we will do it again – we will do it again – it is clear that yes, because this country has very clear what it wants: it wants independence. We made a reference to independence and we can do everything, we can make it impossible, but we need this strategic unit. We have a great opportunity, we don't spoil it, I won't allow it to be awkward and I will devote all my efforts because this strategic unit really gets it among all of us: citizenship, government, assemblies and parliaments. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.129.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the great reversal that supercomputer MareNostrum 5 supposes]] [[317-00107/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.130.0	Thank you very much, President Torrent. Many honorable President Torra, this week we have seen the two realities: the reality of the Spanish State, with a trial that ended in one form..., a political trial, a trial that demonstrates the lack of credibility of the Spanish political system, of the judicial system; an unprovoked trial, which was able to establish in a very clear way that, after four_months, there was no evidence – no evidence – that there was evidence of the causes for which Catalonia's legitimate government and Catalonia's social and political leaders were charged, and, at the same time, also maintained a totally unjust, totally abusive, totally arbitrary preventive prison, as described in the same reports and UN statements. Faced with this reality, there is another reality, another reality that is imposed, that is a Catalonian entrepreneur, a Catalonian that creates occupation, a Catalonian that, despite repression and despite the obstacles that the Spanish State places, continues to move forward and forward with force. The data thus identify; the good prospects in the touristic field of this study also identify it in this way; the good dynamic of the industrial engine, of the fabric of the communities and of the villas of Catalonia thus identifies it. And at times we have also had good news, which is contrary to the shame of the Spanish State, of its judicial system, of its political system, which does not want to face a solution to the catal conflict; we see Catalonia advancing with excellent news such as that of the supercomputer, a very important reversal, a key, strategic reversal, for this economic dynamism and for this area of research; this research needs, which is also an engine for industry, which is also an engine for the economy, which is also an engine for science and university. And there is no doubt that these news and these two realities are what we see: a Spanish State that retreats in a democratic way and a Catalonia that, despite – despite – the Spanish State, continues to impose its initiative and its entrepreneurial capacity. Therefore, president, we ask you for this value of this great reversal that we have had of the supercomputer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.131.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.132.0	Yes, honourable Member, you are quite right; we live in this world that sometimes looks like a parallel world, but it is the same: on one side, so, certainly, with this repression, with our fellow prisoners, with exile, but, on the other, with this desire to have a country that goes, a country to the point, a country where its economy goes well and a country that... we have to say and we do not have to congratulate each day, because this is not the work of this Government or this Parliament, it is the work of Catalan society, that this country functions, that I carried forward, that every day, therefore, I am moving forward. And I think, actually, it was an excellent news, but a news that I'm not looking for by chance; that's a news of years of work. And let me, therefore, first of all congratulate your director, Mr Mateo Valero, also the Pep Martorell, on all your team, for the success of having managed that the supercomputer, one of the three European supercomputers..., one of which came to Barcelona. You know? This, beyond the investment that it represents, is the 100-million that the European Commission is committed to investing for the centre and the 100-million more that the institutions that support it will have to invest there, which is much more there; this means actually betting on what is the knowledge society, which is, as I will try to explain later, one of the main lines and priorities of this government. It is clear that if we had a system of Catalan universities across the country for twenty-five years ago, when a decade ago we decided to bet on research centres, on knowledge centres, and on the basis of what today is the successes that we also find ourselves on. Because it's not just the new supercomputer, it's not just the recognition of all the work they carry, it's the synchro Alba, it's the Icfo, which is also the number or world in photonic research, it's all these research centers that make us proud of the work that its professionals do, that help us capture talent, that allow us to drive Catalonia decisively to the forefront and leadership of what the society of knowledge and the new technological revolution is to be. If we were able to lead the 19th and 20th centuries of industrial revolution, what should we think that we are not able to lead the revolution of knowledge that we already have about now? Therefore, I am pleased as President of the Generality, I think it is a success of the country, it is a success of all the people who have participated in it also from the Polytechnic University, and that this triangle universities, research centers and productive enterprises or productive economy I think it must give us great satisfactions in the future and that it is already at the basis of the country's prosperity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.133.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat whether he intends to repeat the events of 6 and 7 September 2017]] [[317-00104/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.134.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, yesterday, when the trial was over, you said that you would do it again and today you ratified it in Parliament. Tell me, answer me the question: Are you going to pass on to all Catalans the pain and shame that we passed on September 6 and 7, 2017?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.135.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.136.0	Ah, yes, Mr. Deputy. I do not know exactly what it is that has not understood the expression "we will do it again, but I explain it. There is an important grammatical analysis: « we will do again it is verbal periprasis of repetition; « it is a low pronoun, which in this case is a direct neutral complement. In the sentence there is a lack of "we, which is a subject, in this case, choose, but that we can hear" we will do it again. The phrase may also be used to say that we will do it again instead of doing it again. And I would also like to recall that, in this sense, therefore, there are expressions of historical Catalanism, like the famous phrase that President Lluís Companys said, returning precisely from the prison for declaring the Catalan State, when the February of the 36th up another time to the Generality of Catalonia, his famous expression: "We will again suffer, we will again fight, we will again win. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.137.0	I've got the word the deputy again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.138.0	I am glad, Mr Torra, that since you did not take advantage of the law classes, you took advantage of the language classes. [[Greetings.]] Look, Mr Torra, this trial has been conducted with exemplary respect for the rights of the accused, who did not respect more than half of the Catalans. The Democrats have complied with the sentences, but it is clear that you are already announcing that you will not respect them. You want to continue the same – he has told me clearly – another coup d'état and put Catalan society back in check. But in the meantime, you go to waste everything; you spend the money – in February, €35,000 – to go see your friends at the trial. And I, uh, give you an idea of what you could use those 35,000 euros in? In putting one hundred and eighteen day center places for our elders. But you are still committed to bringing Catalonia into the abyss, and the most embarrassing thing is that there is still no sentence, but you have already dictated it. Are you a judge, Mr. Torra? Have you already decided on the freedom of your friends? Did you want a state of your own to have justice of your own and to do as you please, and for that you have put Mrs. Capella in Prisons too, to release Oriol Pujol or to claim Mr. Forn to the Catalan prisons? Well, look, you are wrong and your colleagues are wrong if you believe that a 21st century European democracy, such as the Spanish one, if you believe that Europe itself is going to be frightened for you. Mr Torra, stop dividing, stop lying, stop poisoning Catalan society, stop threatening us all Catalans with another coup d'état. We already know that Pedro Sánchez will do nothing in view of the seriousness of the threats that you have made today also in parliamentary office, but I tell him what we would do as Citizens: we would formally require him to say whether he will comply with the Constitution and, if he does, not wait for you to continue threatening, ruining and dividing Catalan society, but to apply 155 to protect us all. And you know what I tell you? That seems like you're yelling at him. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.139.0	To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.140.0	Yeah. Mr. Carrizosa, look, to me, to the Autonomous, what they explained to me – and that's what I'm pretty impressed with – is the presumption of innocence, that this was the foundational pillar of the right, the presumption of innocence [[applause]] And it would be good for you to respect her once; a time that respects me would be enough. And that legality can respect it; also international, also international legality. I remind you: there is a UN Working Group resolution on Arbitrary Detention that is a must compliment, which is a must compliment for the Kingdom of Spain. [[Greetings.]] The prosecution has a duty to move to the immediate release of our political prisoners. And yes, I will, I will, I will go where there is the sovereignty of Catalans: in prison, in exile, I will go there – I will go there – and the members of my Government too. And I don't think that I instructed them; they know perfectly well that to visit the companies, to give them all the support, so we will go where we are and go to denounce what has been an ignominious judge, a judge who has been a legal barbarity since the first moment and who I have no doubt that in the European courts, where we find justice, they will give us the right. [[Widow's remorse.]] You tell me... Listen to me, I seem to have been very clear from the first investiture speech: I am in this Parliament, in the Parliament of Catalonia. If you think there is an alternative majority and want to present a motion of censure, it may now turn out that you have some new travel companies that may support you; I don't know, come on. But in any case, I say to this Parliament of Catalonia, which is the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.141.0	After the control session, let's move on to the order of the day. [[Proposed law amending Law 13/2006, social benefits of economic character (continuation)]] [[202-00054/12]] Before I pass, however, at the next point, let me point out – I have not done it before – and in relation to the first point of this plenary, which we voted on, that, according to the criteria granted to the Bureau, the deadline for presenting the papers to the totality and the papers to the joint ended today – I refer to the proposal of the law initially voted on – I ended today, I said, by finishing the meeting this late. And that once the deadline for the presentation of these papers is over, it will take a long time in the same plenary session to discuss the papers to the full and to the articulation in the same act, with a common return of five minutes for all parliamentary groups. [[Request by the President of the Generality to appear because it balances the government's action during its first year]] [[361-00015/12]] Now, let's move on to the order of the day. The next point is the request for the President of the Generality to appear before the plenary because it balances the government's action during its first year. As the group proposing, in this case the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has expressed in Junta de Portaveus that it will not intervene, let us proceed directly to the vote of this request for appearance. And ask the chamber if it can be approved by consent. [[Pause.]] Yeah? Therefore, this appearance of the President of the Generality is approved, and I am sure that it will be taken together with the appearance that, for another band, the same President of the Generality had requested. [[Comparison of the President of the Generality to account for the first year of office]] [[350-00009/12]] Therefore, we continue to initiate this appearance. According to Article 172 of the Rules, in the first place, obviously, the President of the Generality, Mr Quim Torra, has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.142.0	Good morning again, President, ladies and gentlemen, public that you accompany us, companies that you help us to throw in here in Parliament. I actually had a chance last week to make a balance of government with the journalists, with the pressure in general, after the session of the Executive Board we agreed, therefore, what was this year of exercise working for our country. And the headline was a double headline, it was ‘a country on the march, a country at a time. "A country on the march because it was warm in this country, institutionally, putting it on the march, it was warm to reactivate the country, to reactivate all its institutions, which, let us remember, were suspended, both the Parliament and the Government, and, therefore, it was warm to reactivate the country. But also a country on the march to face the economic crisis, to continue to advance in the economic recovery of our country, as, indeed, we will see and try to explain with the trends of the last years and, above all, of this last year in concrete terms, which is to which this government's mandate refers. But also a country in point, a country in point for the global challenges that any country has at this time: climate emergency, the 2030 Agenda, globalisation, etc. But also a country for which, politically, our citizens vote for election, which is their will to form an independent state in the form of a republic. These have been the activities of my Government: to put the country on the march, to leave the country to point and to congratulate us that, after this year, we can present some results that are a functioning country, a country where the economy shows a remarkable resilience and robustness and a country that I would like and ask all the groups, because this country needs it..., we continue to be able to make a positive, optimistic and hopeful analysis. Because this country needs positive messages, we need to see Catalonia in positive, to keep moving forward with the pace we've done. I will talk to you about a country that has actually reactivated a country that has recovered institutions after 155 and that has boosted the economy after the crisis. But I will also talk to you about a country of equality and equity, a country that wants to move forward on the goal that no one is left behind in the ability to pull forward his life plan in Catalonia, from where he is and from where he freely chooses to live there and to work and to pull forward his family. A country also lives, a country that fills the Catalan communities with life, where more or the exact half of the Catalan communities have fewer than fifty_ thousand inhabitants and, therefore, we have to be very attentive to the phenomenon of depopulation, which I think in the next few years we really play if the words "sustainability and territorial balance" are something more than words that we serve in this hemisphere and equip them with the content that falls. A prepared country, a country that – as I have had the opportunity before answering the question about the supercomputer, one of the three European supercomputers that we will have, therefore, the honor of hosting the city of Barcelona – situates Catalonia as one of the poles of knowledge, formation, innovation and leadership in the technological change that, in the end, must serve because it also improves the living conditions and the welfare of our citizens. The fifth major bloc is a global country, which has its own in the debates and backs of the world, because, if we don't have it, others will make it work for us. And, therefore, we want to be ourselves, the Catalans, who expressed ourselves to the world with our accent. And it's everyone's responsibility, as we've seen, as it is with this Fridays for Future phenomenon, small and big, to improve the conditions of the entire planet. And finally a _sixth bloc, which will be the bloc of the country just, a country that ensures that the Public Administration treats citizens fairly, and that means that everyone in this country has the same opportunities to pull their projects and dreams forward. And all this, as I said..., I'd like the debate, if possible – it's a petition that I address now, just to start –, the fem sur dades, sur dades contrastas, sur dades reales, because it's the only way we can have a serious debate, much more than anyone can think about or their political positions. And, by the way, the next six, if you will, of a year of exercise, of a year of Catalan government. Growth of the economy, first quarter 2018, first quarter 2019: 2_per_cent. After that I will tell you the trend of the last five years, which goes in the same line, and that of the forecasts, that..., and I will no longer refer to own data, but to BBVA data, on the growth of our country, the forecasts of the 19th and 20th, also, respect the xifra d'atur. About the atur, precisely, we have downloaded in 2,6 points– 2,6 points– only in this exercise the atur tax from the first quarter of 2018 to the first quarter of 2019. I seem to be a very prominent xifra; we're at 11 and a half in the xifra d'atur, this year we'll probably shut down below, already, or we'll be around 10_per_cent, and surely 2020 can be down by 10_per_cent in the xifra d'atur. These are the predictions that the most solvent entities are giving for our country. This means that every time we believe in more occupation, we have people working, and that we recover the levels of the time before the crisis broke out, at the end of the last decade. We have a 2.7_per_cent more occupied people respect a year ago, also, in the first year, considering the first quarter, first quarter, versus first quarter of enguany. We have created, created in Catalonia a 4,1_per_cent more entrepreneurs, also respect for a year ago – April 2018 data in April 2019–, and it is a lie about one of them, let us say it, apocalyptic mantras that usually circulate, without any real basis, on the phenomenon of the creation of entrepreneurs or the market of entrepreneurs, and more now, that we know perfectly well because during October 2017 some companies saw 'efforts to go and how the intervention of the State in the withdrawal of deposits was a fact absolutely..., of incredible gravity, when your property went against your own economy. By the end of the year, we grow in industrial production and by the end of the eighth year, we're going back to the record of exports. If data that place the mark in which the Catalan economy can present itself after this year: 2_percent growth, less 2,6_per_cent at the time, more 2,7_per_cent of persons employed, more 4,1_per_cent enterprise creation, if year of growth resulting from industrial production, eight years of consequent export record. And that, I insist, is not worthy of this government, that it is also; it is not worthy of this Parliament, that it is also. It is worthy of the Catalan society in general, of all the social and economic agents of the Catalan society, who, in a year of normality, have been able to put the country, I insist, in march and to reactivate it. Say a year out of normal 'cause we all know where we are. Since the reference of the first of October and the declaration of independence on 27 October and the application of 155, repression has not ceased, the judicialization of the policy continues there; yesterday it was left to the judgment of a judge who should not have begun or had not begun, and therefore all these figures, all this growth of the Catalan economy, all this, let us say, progress of the Catalan society has had to be made under these conditions, which, if I may, still adds more merit to it. Bearing in mind that there are obstacles that do not change, there are obstacles that are there a year ago: an unsustainable fiscal deficit, 15,000_million euros every year disappear from Catalonia... We have not spoken often in this Parliament; we have not spoken often, what it would mean to drop into one, two, three, four, five points the 8_per_cent fiscal deficit, which would allow to double – to double – the social policies that this Government could pull forward. And this, which I could be aware of, as any citizen, any citizen interested in knowing how it goes to his country, I can assure you, that as President of the Generality and before the complaints – that the past year and the rendition were legitimately produced and produced – by doctors, teachers, firefighters, movements, public servants, legitimate and reasonable complaints that a country like ours should be able to resolve and give it an answer, so weigh, weigh and much. When you realize that this has a solution and, indeed, the solution is to advance in full sovereignty, also in full sovereignty of our resources. Deutes de l'État, as the third additional provision, as the incompliments de Mossos, as any incompliment that all the councillors and councillors of the Government know perfectly, and that there is no way that the State completes and..., that it also strange me, that the opposition groups never complain to the State. I don't know why this should just be a claim on one side of the hemisphere, I think demanding that the State complete the debts it has with Catalonia should really be a broad consensus. In the Basque Country the consensus is general, it is total, in defending its financing system, I could never hear why in Catalonia this does not happen. The chronic deficit in the reversal of infrastructures: the famous Mediterranean Corridor which promises to be a year later and which is incomplete a year later, therefore also adds, between these obstacles that do not change, a point more difficult to the Catalan economy which, I insist, despite this year's period of normality and extreme political difficulties that we cannot accept or normalize and obstacles that do not change, pulls forward. And how did we do it? And here, forgive me, but this is the moment when I would also like to address myself to all the Government's advisors and advisers, to whom I am here today, to whom you have been to the Government, to thank you all, therefore, to have always done, in every moment, a rigorous management, a transparent management of the work as a counselor and as a counselor. I would particularly like to point out that we have achieved fiscal stability, which we have finally succeeded in completing with those unjust conditions of the State, of the deficit, of the rule of expenditure, of the debt, but which we have been able to do thanks to this rigorous management of our departments, of our councils and, therefore, giving us the opportunity to abandon the FLA. I think that also all the advisers of this government have always found that only with the dialogue is it possible to manage this country, because we are a country of pact, we are a country of dialogue, we are a country of consensus, and this we have done speaking in another way with the territory, with this project that I will explain to you after the "Living country". We want to have a new relationship with the territory, which naturally passes through the local councils and the council of mayors, but we want them to hear, the districts of Catalonia, that the Government of the Generality is more than ever, and that it is not that Administration that remains in Barcelona and that forbids everything. We also spoke in another way and we had the will to listen and listen to each other before all the social and economic collections; they were for complaints about pay; they were for complaints like that of the firefighters, to complain about new installations and equipment; they were also, therefore, complaints from the business sectors with which I had the opportunity to meet, with all the business associations in Catalonia to listen to their widow, their complaints. And we also have a dialogue with the State. We were there from the first moment, we're not the ones who left the table of the state dialog. Mr. Sánchez will need to know why he wanted to abandon that dialog that we offered and that it was so simple, as simple as taking a full, to start it by half, that in half the Government of Catalonia was exposed what it seemed to him to be the political solution to the catal conflict and, in our case, a reference to self-determination, which seemed to us to be a possibility to resolve the conflict. We left half the full to Mr. Sánchez because he was totally free to expose himself to what his political proposal was for Catalonia. They never filled it, this half of the full, and naturally, at the end of this full there was a small rectangle for the rapporteur, who had to give, somehow, credibility and, if I may, also a point of transparency to these negotiations. We're here and we're back to providing a dialog. Yesterday all the companies, from their attachments of last words, from the Supreme Court, in those circumstances, again asked for the dialog. The answer they get is no, it's always no. And, therefore, let us once again ask them to sit down at the table, that this is a democratic problem that can only be resolved democratically and with the scrupulous respect that the citizens of Catalonia vote and express freely, calmly, every time there are elections. We, as you know, have always put social assumptions like the engine of this government, because we understand that precisely with a management of public policies and social assumptions is how we can move forward even more directly than the republical change for which this government works. And we've always done it by putting Republican values in the realm of our management, from all departments, if you'll allow me, and I think that in every department of the counselors and counselors, that's what it is, that they're freedom, culture and talent. These are the three values with which we believe the government can act as republicanly as possible to bring forward the work of government. I used to express to them what was a year of management and a few years of a year, those six indicators; but, if I may, I would also like to see, very briefly, the trends of the last years, because I also need to recognize the efforts of those who preceded us. If we claim the heretics of the Puigdemont government and of the previous governments, who have worked, therefore, for the future of Catalonia, it is good that we also see what has been going on. And it has happened that, for example, on the subject of the evolution of GDP and growth we have been growing five years; five years in which Catalonia grows, on occasions, more than 3_per_cent, but always – always – during these last five years, always, over the middle of the growth of the European Union. And the prospects, as I said, the prospects are still good, and it's obvious that if I had gone out with the government's prospects you would say to me: "No, it's already with the government's figures, you know President Torra that you must have done. And, therefore, the perspectives and data that I put on the table are from the BBVA bank, which seems to me to be not entitled, precisely, to the independence bank. 2019's growth prospects are 2.2_per_cent; by 2020, 2_per_cent. And I think we have to congratulate ourselves; it is to say, this trajectory of the five years that has been confirmed in this year of continuous government, and this is excellent news for the citizenry, and I demand that we value it positively, that we send this positive message to the citizenry, that we also help our entrepreneurs, our workers, all our social and economic agents, to send them a positive and reliable message. I told them that by the eighth year exports have continued to grow. I have mine before the growth curve until 71,624_million euros. Even more important: almost – almost – let's say that Catalan exports, 70_per_cent of them, are already exported further beyond the Spanish State, which..., the globalization of Catalan exports also continues with a very important acceleration. With respect to foreign investments, we do the analysis for five years, because you know perfectly well that depending on whether a foreign investment, therefore, is produced at the end of a year or at the beginning of another, therefore, radically changes what it can mean in absolute figures. Therefore, if we look at the growth for five years of foreign investment, we see that if we take the last five years, 14-18, we grow respect to the previous five years almost a 50_per_cent; a 45_per_cent increase of foreign investment in Catalonia, with very important investments – very important. I've had the occasion, only a few days ago, with the Digital Policy Advisor, to inaugurate, therefore, the nine installations of NTT Data, which is Japan's most important telephone company, which opens its artificial intelligence centre for Europe in Barcelona. Boehringer's nine plants are also inaugurated today, with his new medicine in Sant Cugat, which is also a very important reversal for the country. And they are continuing to announce investments, the supercomputer at European Commission level..., investments of this same fall. It also seems to me to be excellent news. The business advisor, last week, gave all the data to respect. I would also like to thank the Council for all the efforts that have been made here at the Offices of Action, which are one of the most useful tools of the Government to help both Catalan exporters and explorers who somehow want to settle in our markets, like all those foreign companies that want to invest in the country, so that they can have a point of contact that allows them to land solvently in Catalonia. It is also not necessary to add that the Financial Times, which I also believe cannot be called an independent newspaper, for the second year as a result, continues to recommend Catalonia as the region of southern Europe with more interest in investing in it. We are not proud, and I think – I insist – it is a jifra that must be celebrated in favour by all groups. With regard to the rate of atur, from 2013, in which we had the rate of atur in 23,1_per_cent, we have passed – from 2013 – to 2018 to 11 and a half percent; it is to say, we have lowered more than twelve points. It's a colossal effort, it's a colossal effort that the Catalan society has made in terms of creation, occupation and giving work to people. But it's more, this xifra – as I said before, also for BBVA – this year 2019 will be almost 10 and a half percent, and 2020 will be down from the xifra – if I may, from this mythic xifra – of 10_per_cent, and we will already be in pre-crisis xifras. Therefore, we must also congratulate ourselves here. Finally, on the subject of companies in Catalonia. We continue to grow until the 630.020 enterprises, positive taxes of growth of enterprises since the year 2014 and that unravel one of the most prodigious news fakes that have been, let's say, launched on Catalonia, and that hurts the Catalan economy. Because we want the companies to get it right, of course we want the companies to get it right; and for this reason, the messages must be positive messages, messages of serenity and trust for the companies and for their inverses, because the more rich we believe, the more rich we will distribute and, therefore, I think that it does an authentic wrong for the Catalan economy when apocalyptic visions about the runaways of the companies, that on the bikes do not support themselves from the ends of the way..., it continues with this same catastrophic discourse. And finally also, if they let me – as I said before – also make a reference to the deficit, which closes with the -0.44_per_cent, and which respects the deficits of the previous years also supposes a figure that has changed completely radically, and which allows us to place the Catalan economy at levels of competitiveness that we have not had for years. You see these figures, which seem to me to be important to see what is the environment in which we move, so much – I insist – respect the year of government as the trend we have so far and the forecasts for our own years, which are positive, by talking about each of the country's blocks, and starting for the country reactivated. This country has done something that doesn't happen, because they're suspending a parliament and a government. This barbarity that a parliament and a government has been here, has not been to any other European country. To us it has passed us, and it has somewhat reactivated it, it has meant to put the whole machinery of the government back on the march in order to put the country on the march. And today I won't talk to them about what economics meant, so the damage to the 155 application: those 1,800_millions – we haven't talked about enough – nor the cessations, more than 230, etc. We already know the evil that has also caused in the Catalan economy and in the public finances of the Generalitat the application of Article 155. Today, I would like once more to thank all the public servants who, during those months of application of 155 days in the Administration of the Generalitat, would like to allow after that, when the Government of Catalonia arrived, we could really reactivate what had been a few months since decisions were taken, where the grant senders were accumulating and where more of these actually harmed the paralysis of the Administration was an obvious fact. We have completed for the first time the three objectives of fiscal stabilization, such as: deficit of 0.44_per_cent, deficit of 34_per_cent, expenditure rule of '1.6_per_cent. I think they're very important too. I'd also like to thank the vice president, economic advisor, so we're still denying his legitimacy and his justice. It is absolutely unfair that Catalonia must complete a rule of spending and a deficit such as that which we are faced with, while the State is systemically incomplete. And we never feel on the side of the opposition bench that it's complaining; they never complain about the state's failure. Hey, don't worry, Mrs. Granados? Don't ever worry. So it would be good if today too, when I push here, to complain about the permanent obstacles that the State poses to the Catalan economy. We agreed with the unions, between this re-enacted block of the country, the return of the external payments of the public workers of the years 2013 and 2014 and the convocation of 6,633 places of public workers. I would like to highlight this fact, which thanks to the councils of Education, Health, Interior..., forgive me, companies of Digital Policies, especially of Digital Policies, for which it supposes to have competence over public function, which supposes a summons like this, which goes through years in which badly this was not possible. It's a cipher that I've sometimes put them as an example. In the last six years we could not have made a call for the Bomber Cos, with the risk that this would entail, and we have managed not only to close a wage agreement with the Bomber Cos, but not only a deal of better than its infrastructure, not only an agreement of more than 90_million to change the mobile park of the bombers, but also an agreement to create two_ thousand fire stations, five hundred the year passed, five hundred this year, five hundred the one that sees and five hundred the next, to reverse this situation. I think that they are also figures and data that have to be shown to us..., or at least I express my satisfaction and thanks to all advisors, especially the Digital Policy and Public Administration Advisor, for this fact. We have set aside the Council Counsellor for the Impulse of a Civic and Social Forum for the Constituent Debate. It was one of this government's commitments and we activated it. After months of work from this group led by friend Lluís Llach and in which the whole methodological proposal of how this debate should be constituted ended, and after drawings of meetings in the country, in the next weeks his president, in Lluís Llach, will expose who are the next stages of this debate constitute. We have the goig of being able to say that we have paid 87_percent of the compliment of the National Pact for Industry, in the first two years of its existence. The years 2017 and 2018 have executed approximately 796_million euros of this national pact that is driven by the Department of Enterprise. Since Councillor Bosch had the opportunity to answer the question, we are pushing for the development of a strategy of fighting corruption and strengthening public integrity and transparency, not only with all the actions that he has detailed, but also with a view to providing us with this global strategy. It was also an objective of this government to recover the social laws of the former government of President Puigdemont and Vice President Junqueras, on the laws suspended for the Constitutional Court. As you know, some have been able to recover by withdrawal from the State, others by initiative for the Government, others are in process, all in process, through omnibus laws or parliamentary initiatives, because, taking advantage of the celerity in what is the processing of some of these projects or proposals of law, will incorporate the items that will allow us, therefore, to recover the map of the social laws that were suspected for the Rajoy Government. In this same line, and ending this country block reactivated, two more data. The Catalan Institute of Finance has financed 1,502 enterprises for EUR 600 million, 96 % of which are entrepreneurs and peppers. And finally this government, with this idea of reactivation, has also reactivated what we might say to its regulatory capacity. We, from the government, have approved and sent to Parliament 24 standards with law rank, 7 bills of law and 17 decrees of law and 11 preliminary memoranda. Passing on to the next block, the one in the country lives, in which, as I gave them to the beginning, what we want is to fill our territories, our compatriots, of life and opportunities for everyone, to seek to do much more than words, to make government politics, territorial balance and sustainability. There is a concrete project, which is the project of the "Country of opportunity, living country" goes like this – a strategy of local dynamism, in which we want to establish this new way of relating to the territory. We want to do it with a few commas, and start with three. I've already had the chance to present this project to Stamariu, to Alt Urgell. The Alt Urgell will be one of the first comarques, the Terra Alta also, and the Pallars will be the third, in which, first, all its mayors will be invited to the Palau de la Generalitat to listen to them, and in which the second meeting, consisting of the commission of this "Country of opportunity, living country, is to do to each of the comarques, not only with its mayors, but with those social, economic, cultural agents, who make each of our comarques their own personality, and with our local councils, naturally. Because we listen to the voice of the territory, we listen to who are the needs of each of our communities, and we give an answer, if I may, bilateral and special to each of them. Think that Catalonia will end the year with 7.6_millions; 2030, with 8_millions. But we have twenty-one districts with fewer than fifty thousand inhabitants and 337 municipalities with fewer than five hundred inhabitants. The phenomenon of depopulation, which is a phenomenon that threatens many European countries, is also a reality in Catalonia. And I honestly think – and I say so, and I say it with all sincerity – that in our own two years we play this territorial balance, if we are able to give answers to this question, but above all if we are able to listen to the territory. Also this year, in this exercise that starts from June 2018 until now, this year of government, we have also been able to approve the new Platform of Works and Services, the PUOSC, after many years, in fact since 2012, we have not been able to pull out a plan like this, so required for our assemblies, so requested, and endowed with 250_million euros, that they will precisely serve, therefore, because the small municipalities, the municipal media, can cope with the need for infrastructures, of services that probably without this plan could not pull forward. We are very happy that after, I insist, almost six years long we can offer another time this instrument so useful for the gatherings. We have also approved and will deploy the Law of Agrarian Thickness, to ensure the productive capacity of the camp and to put in production land in waste, with this same idea of the country living abroad. And this, which we do not only have to see from the point of view of the Department of Agriculture or the Department of Education or Health or of Territories, we also have to see from a cross-sectional view, and, if we are allowed, more than ever, not only our communities, our territories are asking us for more communications, terrestrial communications, railway communications: we are also asking for digital communications, because this is the great struggle that we have ahead of us, that of the digital revolution, and it is possible that the citizens of Catalonia can also have all the same opportunities. And this happens to ensure that there is an optical fiber deployment. This year we have promoted 626_quilometers in optical fiber, in collaboration with the deputies, and know that also, thanks to the agreement we reached with the four deputies and the Government of Catalonia, we will deploy and connect all the capitals of the region in 2020 and all the municipalities in 2023. It is one of the petitions that most often fan me, wander around the country: "We need internet connection. I found myself in small towns they told me: "The apparatus that worked from the house had to leave, because the internet didn't work for it. And we can't afford that, because this country needs to hold Olot's team of architects from RCR, Pritzker winners, and it's a pride that can be made from Olot. And, therefore, we must also be able to ensure that optical fiber, that internet connections arrive from the territory to help them also pull forward. We have reduced the debt with locals in more than 90_per_cent in four years. I also seem to have an important cipher that I can't let go. Or we will allocate, from the Department of Territories, up to 411_million euros, up to the year 2023, for the conservation and maintenance of reel, or 9.3_million euros to facilitate the agricultural activity to 320 young people during 2018, which is what we have done. Or by deploying a tourism marketing plan for the years 2018-2022 and a strategic tourism plan that allows us to include the good forecasts that we have better and that allow us to deseasonalize and that the high times are coming from all year. Finally, in this living block of the country, I also want to talk to you about the fact that we have approved and deployed the Maritime Strategy of Catalonia 2030, in order to develop a poor economy in a sustainable and eco-management-based way. If they don't, of all these major new ideas that you have moved them, they all refer to this country of opportunity, of a balanced country of opportunity. The next block is about the prepared country. We have had occasion at the control session to talk about it briefly, but really we are also playing a large part of our future as a country and as a country that has fish, which has fish in the world, it is if we are able to situate Catalonia as a pole of knowledge, formation, innovation and leadership in technological change, which ended up serving because our citizens are better off with their living conditions. That is why the importance of the National Knowledge Society Pact, to coordinate research centres, business and administration, which is a triangle for which we need to age, because it works and because we are, I insist, in this new leadership. We have also created the STEMcat program to enhance student interest in science, technology, engineering and mathematics. Or we have approved the 5G strategy of Catalonia, and we have carried out the first operation in the remote-assisted world with 5G, and one of the strategic projects that we are driving will be that of the 5G Mediterranean Corridor. We have also created the Committee for the Integrity of Research in Catalonia, the CIR-CAT, to promote good practices in research, and we continue to deploy the Law of Vocational Training and Qualification, with the constitution of the Rector Commission of the Training and Qualification System for the integration of the FP. We have given all our support and apostate for the consolidation of the most important international technological developments that are taking place at these times in Catalonia. Beyond the Mobile World Congress, of the 108,000 visitors and the impact of almost 500_million euros, as you know also, Fira Barcelona has won an event that until now was celebrated in the city of Amsterdam, the Integrated Systems Europe, the most important event in videos, which is comparable, for its relevancy, to Mobile in the world of videos, and which will also assume for our country, in two years' time, when its edition is celebrated in Barcelona, therefore an impact similar to that represented by Mobile. The attendance of more than one hundred and a thousand people is also expected, and its economic impact is worth almost 400 million euros. We have developed the Energy Transition Law to accelerate the change in the country's energy model. We have unblocked the Professional Training Centre of Automotive, Martorell. Also..., I think here too, from the government, to send to the citizenry a point of apology, that it was not possible that this professional training centre could not have been set up before. We've broken it down, that's the important thing; more than 1,500 students will be able to attend it every day, in a sector that is vital to us, such as that of automotive in Catalonia. And the Digital Catalonia strategy is unfolding to turn Catalonia into a technological hub of international prestige and make it a digital nation. Only two figures: at these moments, we are the five European technological hub, which is Catalonia, and we get, the Catalans, the 2.7_percent of the European Horitzó funds – captured. The next block is that of the global country; you have your own in the backs and in the debates of the world, because it is everyone's responsibility, it is the responsibility of the government, it is the responsibility of the Catalan society, it is present in which it is also a challenge of all humanity, which is to improve our planet. They know that we are developing the National Plan for the implementation of the 2030 Agenda, with objectives of sustainable development and eight hundred concrete commitments. I think it's very important. And we won't have to talk a lot about our next year, the 2030 Agenda. We have opened the Brexit Window, to advise Catalan companies exporting to the United Kingdom and predict the risks, to minimize the possible impacts. We have also created the Catalonia Exponential initiative, to capture the trends and technological changes that are produced by the world, with its two already: one in Silicon Valley and one in Seoul. I insist on the recognition that comes from prestigious media, such as the Financial Times, which is the Catalan strategy of attracting foreign investment. And I want to put into value the network of more than forty offices that Actio Rau del mundo has, and that make this important connection task between the Catalan entrepreneurs and the countries to which they want to export and foreign investors to Catalonia. We have declared Catalonia safe port; it also seems to me that it was a very important statement, and that it will still be more so before the arrival of the summer and the foreseeable problems that may be there in the Mediterranean. And we've created a working group to gather rescue ships to the Mediterranean. We would like to see this idea of « Catalunya, a port sure to be shared for the State and that all the Mediterranean coast of Spain, Catalonia..., were safe ports for all those who have unfortunately to flee their country. We have also exported Catalan culture to the world through all the cultural events of high level in which we have been invited to participate, was the Smithsonian Folklife Festival of the past year, the Venice Biennale, the Fira del Llibre of Buenos Aires or the cycle that is currently being celebrated in different cities of Japan also with the performance of the Barcelona Ciutat Orchestra. We have renewed the compromise with the Four Motors for Europe to increase the potential of these leading territories at European level; the record: Catalonia, Baden-Württemberg, Llombardia and Alvernia-Roine-Alpes. And we have said – and I want to put it in full – formally the climate emergence to achieve the mitigation objectives set in the Climate Change Law. And it's not an empty proclamation of content, but it's a proclamation already endowed with a first assumption of €58_million, in a first package of help to businesses. The next block is that of country of equality and equity – it is the penultimate one –; moving forward on the objective that no one is left behind, in the ability to pull forward his life project in Catalonia. I insist on giving them the start: public policies, social policies, are the heart of the government. And, therefore, this idea of advancing towards this country of full equality and equity is, not to say, the government's absolute priority. For this reason, the Interdepartmental Family Support Plan 2019-2021, equipped with €700_million, to ensure basic needs and support for families with special needs; the more than €920_million in employment policies, assuming an increase of 18_percent compared to 2018, is to say, more than €130_million more than 2018; the employment policies of which benefit more than 460,000 people, 464,000, and on which we prioritize groups at risk of exclusion. But, in this same line, in this line of finding solutions to the claims that the different collections have gone to us, also, advancing in the plan and in the agreements with the collection of health personnel, the additional 100_millions for primary care and to improve the conditions of the professionals, to which have already incorporated one hundred_ tomorrow professional of the 250 previewed. Or the three hundred new professionals to better serve the student, in the framework of the deployment of the Inclusive Education Decree. Not only this, but there are also thirty-seven events in more than €150 million in school equipment; more than twenty-seven schools and institutes around the country that will allow us to withdraw, therefore, a hundred modules that we still have in Catalonia; an additional 30 million, until 2022, to renew 382 CAPs, with us sanitary and technological equipment and reform works. And two issues that also concern us between this country of equality and equity, such as establishing and deploying the Protocol on Security against Sexual Violence in the Near East; training more than thirty thousand people in this area, or constituting the Observatory of Justice in Masclist Violence to analyse the judicial response and the criminal measures that apply. I would like to insist on the immense effort the country has made: 11.5_percent of the time, in the Spanish State it is 14.7_per_cent, a substantial difference. He also wanted to make manifest as the citizenry, through the questions he is doing, points out with a 7.87_per_cent the primary attention that I answer in our hospitals; that we have 494 schools... ; that we dedicate 700_million euros of support to families and almost 1,000_million euros, 920 euros, to policies of occupation. And I finish, with the idea of the just country; that is, to ensure that the Public Administration has a fair deal because all the citizens have the same equal opportunities. The Education Council promoted the Pact against School Segregation, with thirty actions and almost two hundred concrete measures in new areas; it has been debated in this Parliament, which seems to me to be one of the important points to be taken. We have allocated 138_millions of social policies to housing in the year 2018, an 8_per_cent more than in 2017, with which, if I may be allowed some details..., 73,000 aids to the payment of loguers; 853 floors purchased for social loguer – we have doubled almost..., 57_per_cent more than in 2017 –, and we have avoided 3,519 denunciations, as they previously commented. We have also created the Citizen's Guaranteed Income Follow-up Commission. And the assumptions have been expanded to better reach the socially excluded collectivities. Currently 120,000 people are not benefiting from Catalonia, and from dependence, 171,722 people; figures that in all cases have almost doubled, therefore, the former beneficiaries of the Minimum Law of Social Inclusion, but that certainly we want to improve. But we want to put in value the one that has made a very considerable effort to be able to meet the demands that arise. We have promoted, and it seems to me, a subject that is of great importance, the National Pact for Persons with Disabilities. This country can also be a pioneer in equality policies for everyone but also for the people I need most and for whom we need most, who are people with some kind of disability. I'm sure half a million people are suffering from some kind of disability. We need to be on his side, we need to get old because no one can stand back, we need to apply this national pact that on June 20th we will already have the first conclusions, because we are doing a really thorough, very serious analysis, to compare us to what the United Nations is demanding of all countries in disability policies. We have passed a law that allows the limitation of the prices of logging in barrels or cities where an avalable lack of habitat can be established. And it's obvious that when you see the figures of what happened in Barcelona these last four years, where the price of the loguer has risen more than 35_per_cent, you need to do something. And this decree gives us tools. And I also want to thank the councils involved, from Justice and the Territories, that we may have agreed to take it forward. In two years, we have multiplied the economic effort per set in attention to young adolescent migrants alone, up to 72_million euros in 2018; in two years, we have multiplied per set. This country is making an extraordinary effort on this issue. And we want to do it – we want to do it – because everyone is welcome to Catalonia, and yet, if you'll allow me, we still need to do it more carefully and with more attention to young young teenagers alone. We have created 3,600 seats in one hundred and fifty centers, and it will create an immediate care center for all those people who arrive in Catalonia and who we need to meet in the best conditions. And here I think that, if I may, it's a country issue, it's a matter that goes far beyond what the government can do, it's a matter that all parliamentary groups in this chamber have to believe, it's a matter that needs the support of all and the solidarity of all; we can't get out of the policy of caring for the young and the young migrants who come to us. Finally, we have also presented a package of support measures to people working in home and people's care; thirty-six measures on working conditions, training and health. We are developing a law to encourage mediation in family conflicts, especially with smaller ones involved. And, if I may, of this country also of justice, also of justice with historical memory. We have identified the first five victims of the Civil War and Francoism, with excavations and analysis of the Pla de foes and the Genetic Identification Program; if they were open, if they were to allow us to repair, that they would allow us to identify and really that the democratic memory can pull forward. I also want to thank the Councillor for the work being done here. And I'd like to recall the huge impulse that was made in this country thanks to Councilman Raül Romeva, and that I think I need to explain. I ended up remembering another time as we have been pushing our activity in each of these blocs, I insist, with dialect, with the territory, with the State and with all sectors; with consensus, such as the Dialeg Table against Racism, the Business Representative Agreement, the Cultural Community. We signed an agreement with the four members of parliament and the government to pool the cultural policies of this country. And I would like this agreement to be respected. Why does this country need all its efforts in the cultural field to be able to coordinate somehow, huh? , continuing from the Lleida Diputation, the Barcelona one or the Government of Catalonia, all cultural efforts must be able to be coordinated. We have also had a consensus on the subject of hourly reform. Third great idea: social assumptions as a motor of change republic; assumptions that we presented and negotiated with parliamentary groups, to see if it was possible for these assumptions, therefore, to pull forward; that they placed them in a reversal in social services of the pre-crisis period; that, after the electoral cycle, we would again debate with the groups, to see if, then, this electoral cycle ended and calling for responsibility, calling for these growth figures, these positive figures can continue, we have the support to be able to pull forward these assumptions. And finally a management, I insist, rigorously, of the public resources that has allowed us this fiscal estabilisation and this abandonment of the FLA. So I ended up thanking again all the councillors and advisers, the present, the ones who were part of the first government of Catalonia..., my thanks for this year, which has not been easy, but I think we are proud to have put a country on the march and a country to the point. Thank you all very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.143.0	Thank you, President. The parliamentary groups will continue to intervene. And in the first place has the word, to expose the position of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.144.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Torra, I really don't even know where to start calling the theater this and the barbarities that you've come to tell us here. It has been said, for example, that it has the challenge of improving the planet. Poor planet, Mr Torra, don't be so ambitious; start with Catalonia, which I will tell you now the data we have so worrying. Improve the planet, he says. He's also been talking about reactivation. What reactivation have you done in this year of the legislature, what reactivation, if the only thing you have reactivated are the CDRs? The rest, nothing at all either. He also talked about climate change. Well, look, I'm going to give you a proposal: stop invading all of yellow plastic, maybe this helps your idea of improving the planet. He didn't say..., he said barbarities, real barbarities. You are very far from the reality of what is happening here in Catalonia. And he brought us a speech that honestly seemed to me, I don't know, coming straight from Waterloo, didn't he? Is that what you're going to to Waterloo, that the fugitive from justice gives you the speeches, Mr. Torra? Although the truth is they're pretty aligned, you guys. You have already said it very clearly today, that you are the heir of Puigdemont. And you don't have to swear it; of course you don't have to swear it. You're very in tune; you're doing exactly the same thing, you're doing exactly the same thing. And yesterday, and today too, it made it very clear to us. You intend to re-declarate independence unilaterally, because you have come here to continue with the coup. You have not come here to preside over anything, you have come to continue with the coup. And in the meantime, then, you pretend to be the alleged president of an alleged republic in which you allegedly work. But do you know what's going on? That neither you are the president of all Catalans, nor the republic exists, nor you have moved a finger for any of the real problems of the day-to-day of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] Look, we knew just yesterday that one of four students in Catalonia has been harassed by school. You have spoken here one hour– one hour–, you have not found a single minute to talk about school harassment. One_of_each_four students. But in addition, more than half of primary school students have witnessed some form of harassment at school. And the teachers, 76_per_cent of the teachers, confess not to feel prepared to face these kinds of situations. However, you have not given the teacher face-to-face training for years. Are you concerned about this? I mean, are you least concerned about the welfare of children in schools? Because you haven't talked about anything at all. The welfare and of course also the education of children. Mr. Torra, children have the right to receive education in their mother tongue and there is not a single centre that complies with this, not a single one, that forces you parents to go to court. Indeed, we have had to apply to the Bureau for amparo. I do not know how many times because you have refused to give us the language projects. Which, by the way, seemed to me to hear that you praised the transparent management of your advisers. What transparency? If it is that I believe that between my companions Susana Beltrán, Sonia Sierra and myself we have the record of protection of the Bureau because you systematically deny us the information. That doesn't surprise me, huh? I'm not surprised that we've been denied information about linguistic projects, because, come on, seeing what Mrs. Budó told us the other day with all the cameras recording, because fear gives me what you do in schools, fear gives me, huh? In schools, too, which by the way you have in barracks. We're the autonomous community with the most barracks, huh? ; the autonomous community with the most barracks, the second most segregated autonomous community and the third autonomous community where the income of the parents influences the academic outcome of the children most. Can anyone tell me that this is a model of success? Will you really continue to insist that this is a model of success? Where is success, with these figures? Do you know how much money you spend on zero - to - three - year education? My partner told you this morning. I don't know if you have the figure left, although it's quite easy to remember. Zero_euros, zero_euros for children's education from zero to three years. And you've talked about equality. But what equality do you promote? You promote inequality, quite the opposite – quite the opposite. By the way, he has also spoken, in the moment, in the little time he has spoken of education, of FP, that I thank him. Let's see if then in the replica you can come out here to explain to us what they are doing with the FP, which, every quarter of an hour, they change their minds: the counselor comes out, presents a project, then they withdraw it, nobody explains why. Let's see if he comes and explains it to me. You promote inequality not only in education, but also in health. Look, Mr. Torra, to do a mammography at the Hospital Sant Joan de Reus patients wait 138_days; for that same mammography in Figueras, 23_days. For an endoscopy at the Hospital Santa Maria de Lleida, 114_days; in Sabadell, 120; now, however, in Mataró, 26_days; in the Hospital del Mar, 30_days. We proposed to him a law that was aimed precisely at ending these inequalities. And what did you do? They laid it down, as they do with everything – as they do with everything. Do you know that in Girona's Trueta, you have to wait 295_days for the neurologist to visit you? It's just a scandal. Do you know these figures, Mr. Torra? Between trip and trip to Waterloo gives you time to know what's going on in Catalonia? Because you're the absent president. You live behind your back to the problems of Catalans. It has been put on strike by primary care workers, family doctors, pediatricians, concerta workers, SEM workers, and you have done absolutely nothing this year either to improve the conditions of professionals or patients. Instead of so much chiringuito and so much embassy, dedicate yourself to opening up hospital plants, which have people in the hallways. He said in the control session... that you're going to come to Catalonia. Go to the hospitals – go to the hospitals – that people have to pass; to the Valley of Hebron, to emergencies, more than sixty people waiting to be admitted. Go to hospitals. That's where he has to go – that's where he has to go. [[Greetings.]] More data, more worrying data, Mr. Torra. One_of_each_four Catalans is at risk of poverty. Is it true that your conscience is not moved by seeing that a_quarter of the population that depends on you – depending on you – is at risk of poverty? What you've been talking about here about social budgets. But what budgets? If you have been unable to present the budgets. It's just that, really, I'm starting to worry about how far away you are from reality, the lack of contact you have with reality. We're used to it, but so much? At this level, Mr. Torra? Is your conscience not moved by the waste of money that you carry with you? That you are giving money around: 400,000_euros in French schools, 600,000_euros in British universities, 10_million_de_euros to pay a building in the historic center of Valencia to Acció Cultural, which, by the way, is already investigating the prosecution thanks to Citizens. With the need that so many Catalan families are going through and you dedicate yourself to wasting money. Doesn't your conscience really move, Mr. Torra? With what is spent high office of the government..., 36_million_of_euros cost us high office, which is that there are charges that charge more than the president of the government. Do you know what I could do with those 36_million_euros? Well, look, for example, all Catalan children could study with free textbooks. But no, you spend it on high charges. It has also been spent 400,000_euros on trips abroad to speak ill of Spain. Don't you realize that when you go around talking bad about Spain, what you do is talk bad about Catalonia and it hurts us? In other words, foreign investment has collapsed, tourism has fallen, business creation has fallen. You said we've hit the export record. I do not know if the press has not been read today, because this news is from today, with its data, data from the Idescat : « Exports from Catalonia have fallen for the first time since 2011. Catalonia grows less than Madrid. Today's date. If you want, I'll give it to you later. I mean, but you here, of course, that data doesn't interest you to say the ones, does it? I mean, not those. You've talked here about how good the economy is, how perfect everything is. Five-thousand companies have left Catalonia, five-thousand, and you were getting the most out of them, the Catalan companies. Yeah, they stayed, but it wasn't thanks to you, it was despite you. And four days ago they remembered it at the Economic Circle meeting. It just doesn't embarrass them, really. Tell me about those five thousand companies, have you taken any steps this year to get any of those five thousand companies back? One measure, let's see if you can tell me. Or do you feel like your ANC partner, who says those companies better not come back? Really, you're toxic to Catalonia's economy, you're toxic. He was also talking about improving business confidence. But what confidence, speaking of the Slovenian way and saying now, threatening, that they will repeat what they have already done in 2017? What confidence does that give? Look, while this year in Catalonia has increased poverty, inequality, waiting lists, while Catalans do not reach the end of the month, you have been unable to propose a single solution, because you live absent from the problems of Catalans. I was coming here today to take stock of what you've done. Look, let's take a look, yeah, at your big hits this first year. It began in the worst possible way, without asking for forgiveness for its racist and supremacist articles, which do not just say "Citizens", which are also said by the main European parties. In this you're not supposed, no, no, in this you're recidivist. He calls us « mad beasts, scoundrels; it seems insulting to him that Spanish is spoken in Catalonia. Look, as your partner arrives now, Mrs. Budó, who a few days ago we saw her making a mess with the sums and the subtractions. It turns out math isn't his thing. But it's not that the languages either, which refused to answer the press in Spanish. I remind you that Spanish is the official language in Catalonia and the majority mother tongue, although you do not like it. I, Mrs. Budó, really, I mean, it's just... you're also a repeater, huh? You blamed a fellow citizen, in a plenary, for addressing the neighbors in Spanish. What a scandal, huh? What a scandal. I mean, a citizen speaking Spanish in Spain, my mother, what's next, greeting in French in France? It is that you choose them in your image and likeness, Mr. Torra. Remove the supremacism from the top, remove the yellow link from the eyes. We also remember another hit – I'm finishing already – when you threatened us with hot autumn. And that autumn came and you fulfilled your threats and dedicated yourself to prying at the CDRs; « presseu, presseu, told them as they stormed buildings [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] And they were cutting roads, burning tires...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.145.0	Congresswoman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.146.0	I'm done, five seconds. They were burning tires –« pressed. You're the gasoline that fires those tires, Mr. Torra. And do you know what I'm saying instead of pressing? It's flooded, it's flooded...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.147.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.148.0	...the tax charge you impose on Catalans, which is a shame. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.149.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Junts per Avançar, the Member of Parliament, Mr Miquel Iceta, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.150.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House... a very honorable President of the Generality, this appearance must serve us to establish the balance of a year of government presided over by you. And in the opinion of our group it is a clearly negative balance. You talked about the positive issues, and in some of them we can agree, but as you will understand, it is up to you to explain what we think was wrong. And, to sum up, the coalition government between Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, from our point of view, has lost us one more year. And allow me to justify this opinion based on the objectives that you yourself are attached to the investiture debate. One year ago you set four objectives of government: to make the republic effective, to restore Carles Puigdemont as president, to set a process in motion and to approve the laws of the previous legislature that had been suspected by the Constitutional Court. I don't think I can say that I exaggerate if these objects say they haven't been sunk, probably because they were impossible to materialize, but it was you who placed them in the forefront of the government's leadership. I remember that there was then a controversy between those who defended the legitimate government and the supporters of an effective government, and the truth is that we have not had one thing or the other. For what you do to the government, you said strongly in July of last year: "Governments tend to resign if their assumptions are not approved, and it seems to me that this is a democratic mandate of self-requirement. It is clear that you are referring to the Government of Spain, because you should not imagine that the Government that presides over you one year after that so round statement is found without any assumptions approved by Parliament and that it has not even formally approved the Government at a meeting of the Executive Board. Not so much the Parliament approved a parliamentary mandate which said: "They must present the draft assumptions to the chamber or present a motion of censure. And you, who all too often say that they only obey the Parliament, have decided to turn it off, as at least now. The compliment control of that resolution will be produced on September 8. Maybe they'll think of completing it from here on out. Let's hope so. There has been a year of protests by public workers because they consider that the agreements negotiated with the Government are repeatedly incomplete and see how their working conditions have deteriorated and how their purchasing power has been eroded, as teachers, teachers, nurses, movers, firefighters or other public workers or of the services agreed with the Generality. It has collapsed the application of the Law of Dependence, the lists of hope have increased by 10_per_cent and has failed in a consistent way both the deployment of the guaranteed income of citizenship as the management of the minor strangers not accompanied. Not even just the fears about what you at some point have shown some enthusiasm, as the civic and social forum is, seem to be projected further beyond powerpoint lamps manufactured in a pallet. As many have said, we're at a standstill between a failed trial and one doesn't quite know what. He told us today that we'll know soon enough, have news, and so we'll wait for them with interest. Your government, Mr President, from our point of view, shows signs of fatigue and internal mistrust, exhibits a remarkable lack of shared strategy, is unable to place a reasonable horizon of legislature and neither is it clear what it will do after the sentence, which will arrive as soon as it is late. As you do not know what you will do, you yourself said: "I have opened a process of consultations on the immediate event, but it does so with entities that are not responsible before this chamber. His government, in addition – and at the control session, I believe, has not had an evidence – continues to think only, and as much, in my country. It only seems to worry about those who share the object of independence or those loyal followers of the process you are waiting for you to offer the whole route. And while the economic data show worrying signs. You were asking us for data. Data from the Idescat, to find a font. There's a lot of economic growth going on. If the second quarter of 2018 the annual rate of variation of GDP was, according to the Idescat, 2.8_per_cent, in the first quarter of 2019_has fallen to 2. One year ago, Spain's conjunction created 2,6_per_cent, less than Catalonia, while today it grows 2,4_per_cent, more than Catalonia. When you came to the presidency, the rate was 11:39_per_cent, and the second quarter of..., this is data from the second quarter of 2018, according to the Idescat, while the first quarter of enguany falls to 11:64_per_cent; in change, in the joint of Espanya goes from 15:28_per_cent to 14.70_per_cent. The business confidence index has fallen by 2.1_per_cent, while in the Spanish conjunction this davalada is lower, it is of the '1,9_per_cent. At the length of 2018 the foreign investment in Catalonia fell by 11.7_per_cent, while at the conjunction of the State it created a 71_per_cent and at the Community of Madrid it created a 125_per_cent. And it is true that Catalan exports have increased, and we are not very satisfied. Now, it's true that in relative terms, in the conjunct of the Spanish export, we've lost to the relation. And today, and I was teaching him... I'm not teaching him the photocopy, but I'm sure Eduardo Magallón in La Vanguardia tells us, citing the Idescat, that exports fall for the first time since 2011. Our Catalan trade deficit has increased from 15,500_million euros in 2017 to 19,100 euros in 2018. We are the only autonomous community that has the debt qualified as good scum for Moody's, Fitch and Standard & Poor's. While 2017 was the world leader in international troubadours, 2018 was the year we went down to fourth place. We have been able to listen these days to the complaints of the Rectors and Rectors of the Catalan public universities, who ask the Government for an effort, given that the Catalan university system has suffered since 2012 retailing of a 30_per_cent. Today's funding for our universities is under the age of two. Miri, in 2010, presupposition intended to finance the public university: 1,000_million euros; today: 750_million euros. What product model do we want for our country if it is not based on knowledge and innovation? And when we suspend his administration of government, very honorable president, we also do so for other reasons. Incompliments of parliamentary mandates: the reduction of university fees, the approval of the new program contract of the Catalan Radio and Television Corporation, the establishment of an extraordinary fund for the meetings to increase the social aid managed locally. They haven't deployed the Children's Law. They have an important debt with social entities all over the place. They have an important debt with the joints, especially the debt corresponding to the lack of financing of the bressol schools. They are not sufficiently compromised by the inclusive school and the help to infants who require special attention. They have not updated the Decree of School Mensers. There has been no commitment to the implementation and financing of the National Pact for Industry. They have not regularly deployed the law that guarantees the rights of LGBTI people. There are serious shortcomings in educational planning. There, too, has been said, this uncertainty about the future of our professional formation. We believe that there is not enough momentum for the job of the Occupational Servant of Catalonia. They have not presented the law on areas of urban economic promotion, compromises that there were close. There are also deficiencies in infrastructure; they told us that they would present a plan of investments, which has not been done. They have given up, because they have not put forward the assumptions, to promote a more just and progressive tax reform. They did not develop a shoal to increase the public housing stock to which they had committed themselves. There has been no increase in public residence places. In seven years it has not been incorporated into the catalan energy system with a new megawatt of renewable energy. They have not approved the decree to develop the tourism regulation, pending since 2016. It is true, they seem more concerned to reform the area of institutional security than to meet the needs of citizen security, which demands more police presence in the street, and no more escorts for the president or for the expression. Their institutional journeys have more to do with the failure to internationalize the process than with the defence of Catalonia's economic interests to Europe and the rest of the world. They said in the investment debate that it would create the public agency of professional training and qualification of Catalonia, that there would be a plan to promote physical activity and sport or that the law on the system of research and innovation would be approved, concrete commitments that have been incomplete. Certainly, there were commitments for four years and we are talking about the first year, but in any case, I have an obligation to remember these outstanding commitments. And they haven't submitted the draft assumptions. Miri, President, we cannot make a positive balance of the management of your Government, but we certainly rejoice at all those good news that you have given, which many can see with the management of the Government and others with a momentum of the Catalan society that we share and celebrate. Now you're still saying, "We'll do it again. "We'll go back to doing it is contradictory to ensure the country's progress, and we think we've seen it. You were talking about a working group on arbitrary detentions; I could talk to you about the European Court of Human Rights ruling that, when a defence of your rights, the first thing to do is to comply with the law. You have not yet committed yourselves to complying with the law, and our country is certainly what it needs, it's a state, it's a government that works for everyone, and it's not the government that you're presiding over. President, we will wait for your reply, but we do not believe that things are well focused. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.151.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Pomão, the Lady Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.152.0	Thank you, and good morning to all of you again. I wanted to start this statement, I think the only way that it can start, that it is to recognize the situation of democratic exceptionality that we are patenting in this country, with political prisoners and pressures and with a judgment that should never have been produced and that we understand that conditions its government action. Last week, in addition, we knew the record of the prosecution's findings, and we continued to look with amazement and indignation that this is reaffirmed in the thesis of the coup d'état and that it shows a worrying affinity, in tune with Vox's ultrathreat. The situation of pre-trial detention and the trial against the independent leaders are unfair, but they are also a major political obstacle so that it can advance in a solution that will only be given in the framework of the policy of dialogue, which must go beyond blocs and frontism. And we believe that the independence parties have made hard political mistakes, such as obstinacy on the unilateral path or oblivion of the half of Catalonia, but we will not address the plot of the Catalan conflict, that in the background it is a conflict of Spanish origin, if the only tools that are used are those of Criminal Code, twisting it so as to turn it into the criminal right of the enemy. And we think that in the 21st century any possible, desirable and lasting solution has to go through the dialogue and democracy, that is to say, this has to be reflected in the right to decide. But, said that, President, the summary of your government would be no more than that of the day that passes, year that I undertake. I insist on it, day before, year after time, and the citizenry without knowing who is the object of this government, because, as you have said to the control session that we have had a moment ago..., you have said that the government is lost; so yes, we see that the government is lost. And that's true, and we have memory and we remember your investment debate, because one year ago you exposed three pieces that define your government's stage: the first was exceptionality, to which I have already referred, but that can't be excused for everything; the second was provisionality, and the third was responsibility. For what you do to temporaryity, it was so when you were invested president that even Mr. Puigdemont, in an interview with the newspaper La Stampa, spoke that there could be elections to Catalonia in five months. Well, we've seen that it's been a year, and that's where the elections didn't show up. But it is that, moreover, the worst of all is that the temporaryity every day that passes is getting worse and the citizenry continues without knowing what you will do with the Government of Catalonia, which is the object of your Government or when you hold elections in that country, because one day you or Mrs. Artadi say that this legislature will be long, the next day Mr. Rufian says that there could be elections at the fever; one day it is said that if there is a hard feeling on the part of the Supreme Court the answer could be the unilateral way and another the answer is "does not know, does not answer. Therefore, we see that provisionality has become a mark of the house, a mark of its government. And finally the responsibility, which at its investiture session meant very concrete things: it meant what you called "the democratic restoration of the Catalan institutions after the implementation of Article 155 of the Constitution", what called "progress policies to combat inequality, the development of policies of prosperity, which had to include a just and efficient economic redistribution, and, lastly, the internationalization of the Catalan conflict. At that time we had serious doubts as to whether this would be a good government, and today, after a year, we can see with all the evidence that it is obviously not a good government. You haven't ruled and you haven't been a good president of the Generality, and that's what the whole country knows: it's the independenceists and the non-independenceists, it's the people who voted for them and those people who would never go to the head to vote for them, everyone knows that. Even the UPC has withdrawn support from its government, because it has demanded early elections, and also the accusation of representing the independence of falls. And the only thing that we can finally see that your government has assumed – and that was not too difficult either, because it was a very automatic process – followed the rise of Article 155 of the Constitution. But right now we don't have a stronger government to co-ordinate the country on the basis of policies that are neither social nor economic, nor on the basis of its international work. And that's his responsibility. This year of your government has been a lost year. It's a lost year because the government still hasn't made it clear what the end of 2017 was. It's a lost year because no one knows where they're going, between so many improvisations, so many big words and so many full routes failed. It's a lost year of government because there's no chance of a future; in fact, this legislature knows it has an expiry date, and we're only at the chance of Mr. Puigdemont's designs or the possible stabbing of his governing partners. And, ultimately, it's a lost year because, as you said, his government is lost. And now they're trying to fix their mistakes or their lack of dedication with a last-minute start. We have just heard a certain economic triumphalism, for us unjustifiably, because it breeds in some ways, in some macroeconomic data of winds of the current cycle, but that it is not coming to the families, and only to see the city, to talk to employers, to talk with trade unions..., or in fact the other day, last week, they also told them to the Circle of Economy. And we have also listened to a certain self-congratulation worrying in social terms, when inequality in this country has not been reduced. Therefore, the reality of Catalonia is quite different from the fairy tale that you came today to explain. And in order not to succeed, they have neither succeeded nor approved any presuppositions, nor so alone to bring them to this chamber. And on this subject I would like to make a small incis, because it involves us directly as a parliamentary group. President, we do not know in which country he has lived, but we do know that he now seems willing to start a new negotiation to bring forward assumptions after what he says in an electoral cycle, because it seems that until now there was not enough context of tranquility and sincerity, as if the ills who are waiting to be operated in a public hospital understood a lot of electoral cycles. But well... I just want to remind you, Mr. Torra, that our conditions were soon public and very clear: social assumptions to reactivate Catalonia and to abandon a decade of austerity and detail. So I'm warning you not to look for us or listen to us think we're whitening some assumptions that remind us of Arthur More's better times. It is important to bet clearly on a social, green and feminist Catalonia. Because while you're showing off your government's alleged bonds with Mr. Macron's recycled slogans, the reality is quite different. And I'm just going to talk about some of the priorities that you mentioned in your investment debate. For what it does, the waiting lists in Catalonia have disappeared: a 10_per_cent in the topic of operations and a 23_per_cent in diagnostic tests. But it's that, besides, primary care is precarious, and in some health centers right now they're already giving time by September. In education, the syndic had to promote a pact against school segregation before his inaction. It's consolidation of the triple network. Not to speak of barracks: you have spoken of reducing it by a hundred, when there are not more than a thousand, and we know not so much alone in what term of time. There is a lack of funding for the inclusive school decree; there is a lack of funding in schools, and the situation of universities is dramatic, because each time they are more like a small space for an elite each time reduced. Depending on it, our society is perplexed by the fact that six people die every day in Catalonia waiting for a place in a public residence. There are more than twenty thousand people waiting for this square and fifty thousand to be valued. Therefore, the situation is unsustainable and we have a problem of setting up and modeling, and it is not as you pretended that someone approved of assumptions that contemplated zero_euros for places of public residences. The guaranteed income of citizenry. Now they say the regulation will be at the end of the year or at the generation of 2020. They have only approved a 10_percent of the requests and have come up with the brilliant idea of putting the wolf to care for the sheep, which is no more than Deloitte to manage the guaranteed income that precisely has to meet the most disadvantaged people of our society. Fighting against masculinist rapes should be a priority of any democratic government, but you show an absolute desire. In hours of the day we follow without a plan of struggle against the masclistic violèncias, which carry hanging since 2015. According to people living in Catalonia you have access to some resources or others, and the care system hangs on thanks to entities and professionals. Habitat. If you want to talk about Councilman Calvet's frustrated decree, and to more people, people who are in the months of emergency have to wait a year to give it a habitation. In many cases they are families with minors or women victims of male violence. Not to speak of empty symbols, such as the declaration of climate emergence. Now it seems that you say that you will allocate 58 million to businesses, without knowing which concrete measures you are going to take. So, president, if these were your priorities in the investment debate, I wouldn't like to think, I don't want to imagine what it would be if they weren't your priorities. That's why I'm asking you to answer: what is the object of your government, president? If there's any. What's the point of this government? Because it has been a lost year for public management, for the benefit of Catalans and Catalans, and it has also been a lost year but in which the round fraction of "we can alone has been confirmed. Therefore, President, since you have recognized that they are lost, please find yourselves, do not waste our time, because Catalonia needs to move forward and there is no one left. What's left is frontism. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.153.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then the word "Mrs. Sirvent", on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature, for a maximum of five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.154.0	President, you have ruled under an unlawfully intervened parliament. We have an intervening democracy, and that should be taken into account; the context is important. Today, one day after the Supreme Court's trial against the right to self-determination remains under review, they continue to make good commitments from the former Catalan government and continue to exile good from the rest of the government: two former members of this chamber and two basic activists. Let us not forget, therefore, the effects of this repression, nor the application of Article 155. This Parliament has been intervened, and its composition, severely adulterated, as are the Congress, the Senate and the European Parliament. We are aware, therefore, of these limitations, which have conditioned and continue to condition the activity of this chamber, of the Government, and also of the conjunction of the Catalan society. But we cannot fail to ask ourselves whether the Government has been sufficiently effective in combating the effects of this repression and the outpouring of the civil and political rights that have derived from it. And they can't, unfortunately, stop answering 'no, they haven't done enough. A lot of symbolism, but little material reconstruction. The generality continues to feel accused in many unfair lawsuits without the need of 155. Yesterday, even the Squadron Mosses, in a coordinated operation with the National Police, stopped the anti-faecal companies; and this is not a case in point. Either the Government is opposed to popular mobilization in defense of the rights of the Catalan people, or it is unable to lead the Catalan Administration and the Squad Movements by setting their priorities and guidelines for action in line with the defence of civil and political rights, and does not agree with other interests. Another idea we wanted to move. His first major commitment in the investment speech, repeated on numerous occasions, was with the mandate of '1 October. "We will be loyal to the mandate of the first October, that you have said on repeated occasions. At hours of the day, the 1st of October only lived in the people that made it possible. Mr. President, the reality is coughing up and he's completely ignored it. We do not doubt his personal commitment, but we do doubt his ability and the ability of his government to materialize this commitment. They've definitely messed up the October 1 mandate. But despite everything, despite the repression, 155 and the abandonment of the government and of the groups that support the government, its arrival, the arrival of October 1st, is well-lived. Now, it's not a warrant anymore. That you are at least a guide for future attempts to exercise self-determination. President, you too have committed yourself to the social cohesion and economic prosperity of Catalonia, but you govern the needs of the people. If the government has not been a priority for its own members or for the party that makes it up, how do they want us to believe that citizenship has been a priority for you? The desertion of up to three advisors to go to other administrations speaks for itself. Since when are there the most important priorities that pass over the responsibilities with the government of your own country? , and less when this government has such important objectives and facts, in such a difficult context. We're still living in an unequal country. You haven't submitted any assumptions or thought of presenting them. They have not materialized any republic, but they have not had a debate on the limits of autonomy either. They haven't promoted minimally courageous social policies, and we warn, all analysts warn, that a new crisis will come, perhaps even harder than the previous one. You need to lay the groundwork for it, and you're not doing it. Mr. Torra, you need to change the course. The time for illusions seems to have run out; they are returning to the winds of institutional, democratic and economic crisis, and this time the crisis will be worse. Calen courageous answers, donating the schematic to neoliberalism and the market authoritarianism that has brought us all the way here. We need to build sobrieties to exercise self-determination, and we don't want governments to come to the best bidder, or there's nothing to self-determination. ( Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.) If this is the path, we...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.155.0	Congresswoman, you should be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.156.0	... – okay, president – if this is the way, president, we are willing to work together, willing to walk. We're still in time. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.157.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then there is the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party, Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.158.0	Thank you, President. The Diari de Tarragona has a good habit of asking political representatives and members of civil society to evaluate our politicians. It was also up to me to receive the severity of my adversaries when I was a member of the government of the City of Tarragona or of the parliament, and it was up to me this year to value Mr. Torra. And I must say this is the first time in my life that I've put a zero on a political opponent. I didn't put it in Puigdemont – it must be said that I was asked before the events of September 2017–, I didn't put it in Arthur Mas – I didn't want to –, I didn't put it in Montilla, who was the first president of the Generalitat who asked me – seemed to me a bad president, but it must also be said that Mr. Torra, for, seems Adenauer –, the truth is that I have put a zero on you. And why have I put a zero on him? It is not capricious; I have already told you that I have always tried to value things with the utmost objectivity, an obvious political criterion. You do not have budgets, you do not have a parliamentary majority, elements consistent with the formation of a government and its maintenance – that has been explained here a moment ago – but it must also be said that you are not the only one or the first to have this; it is not, therefore, that. They are two elements, and then I will add a_third, fundamental, related to morals and ethics and the field of public management. In relation to morals and ethics, this has been a year, for its part, of rhetoric of absolute contempt for half of Catalans who do not think like you. I am not going to refer to your writings; I am talking about an undisguised hostility in your rhetoric towards all those who do not feel Catalonia as you feel it. It has also been a year of calls to the insurrection, the legendary « pressreu. It's a curious call: you ask others, but you don't usually apply it to yourself. In the field of public administration, it has been a year, his..., the one with the lowest legislative output in the recent history of Catalonia and the one with the lowest governmental output in the recent history of Catalonia. This comes forward because we have good officials in Catalonia who allow the castle not to fall altogether, but certainly not for you and your government. And it's been an absolute failure of your government plan. In the paper he has read to us a moment ago with descriptive enthusiasm, he has not spoken at any time nor made reference to his own plan of government; he has made a sort of inventory of things that have been started for a long time, and others using some data, will allow me to say, with all due respect, doing and exercising a little trillero of the Ciutadella park, because, in addition to omitting the recent data according to which exports in Catalonia fall for the first time in 2011 – he has been reminded a moment ago – when it has been talked about foreign investment, as the data of his year of government are a disaster, he says he will give those of the last five years. You're a lynx, Mr. Torra. But I'll add another one too. Look, your year of government has been a year of constant denial of democratic political debate. You who always talk about taking the issue out of the courts and talking about politics... it's been impossible. In the control sessions one day I asked him about health and answered me, as he said before, that, until we had a republic, impossible. The other day I asked him about tolls and infrastructure and, in addition to an atrocious ignorance of the matter, he denied me the legitimacy to speak, because we only have four Members. The other day I talked to him about innovation and technological parks and he came to me to say that, while there were prisoners, in your opinion, politicians, that could not be talked about. In short, it has been virtually impossible to discuss the day-to-day issues with you. And that ultimately results in an absolute disregard for day-to-day policies, not of interest to him, and has shown an absolute indifference to the specific problems of Catalans. And you are president of all Catalans, you have to meet those needs, not just your own ideology, not just your worldview, not just your own prejudices. You, paraphrasing Ortega and Gasset, things, Mr. Torra – things. Land, lower your Republican dream, devote yourself to everyday things or, if not, call elections, because this situation is absolutely unsustainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.159.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then has the word Mr Sergi Sabrià, on behalf of the Republic Group, for a maximum of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.160.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies. Let me start by fixing the objectives of this government with a thick stroke: the first and indispensable, to put a stop to the 155 and to recover the institutions of this country, and the second, to work for social rights, for equal opportunities and for freedom. We are a Republican Left, and we are always guided by the same objective: to build the Catalan Republic, as an indispensable tool to achieve a fairer, freer and more net society, and to do so for everyone, for all Catalans, for all Catalans, for everyone. And a do always guides us: Republican values. And this is an idea that we extend to all institutions: to the municipality, to the Congress, to Europe, to the Parliament, and also to the Government, which is already a year advanced to recompose the country after a historic stage that will mark us forever, and also after the shameful intervention of our institutions. And do it not in a situation of normality, but do it while repression continues, while the judgment of shame advances against our companions, against our friends, against eleven good people to the Supreme, but do not forget that against many more to the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, at 13. And, despite everything, let's try to always take a long look at it, as Raül Romeva says. And, despite everything, we have always made it clear that there was a country to govern; that there was no place for the blockade or not for everything; that our job is always to help people, and especially those who need it most. And to govern it in the only way that we know how to do it: with a solid, open, inclusive and republican project, as we have always done, that is why the verb « to persist in us represents so much, because we always want to be, because we are always there to defend the country and its people; a social and national project, inseparable one thing and the other, irrefutable one and irrefutable the other; not for flags or for colors or for borders, a new country because today there is no more place, only dark and repressive, and we will never give up on providing ourselves with a future of rights and freedoms. We want to be a social republic, and now, when everything is harder than ever, it's when we're more firm and we have to be. We don't get tired or give up, we don't do it because of threats; we have a country to rebuild, a republic to raise and a lot of people to help, and we don't stop or stop. This country has suffered, much, has suffered institutional repression, but also the staff; it has experienced attitudes of revenge to the place where justice was hoped; we have not had proof every day and the example of yesterday to the Supreme makes it quite clear. We have experienced a 155 that paralyzed our institutions, that froze during the months of the day by many people, because they care more about the unit of Spain than not the people of this country. Those responsible for the 155, the irresponsibles of the 155 – PP, Ciutadans, Socialists –, you stopped the institutions to put up with the political opponents, because you know that the ballot box always lost, without taking into account that, in the end, the most affected are the most vulnerable citizens. You used your Constitution to accuse, to undertake, to force into exile or to dissolve a parliament, to impose on you by force. But it's not over here, you've served the courts to always take away political debates, you've served the robes to make us feel repression in the first person. You want to win and not convince, inventing stories and lying every day. In the Spanish State, the revenge door toga. And, in part, this government came by this, to put a stop to the 155's coup, to block the step to..., this was a coup, and to resume the Republican construction. We were aware of the difficulties, and we found them, therefore, the difficulties, the obstacles. But we are also aware of the historical moment in which it was up to him to walk to this government, with repression on the march, with his fellow prisoners, with exile, with the judiciary, with the threats of the rest of the courts, with no sense of normality and no sense of stability that you allow us to govern. We are still in a period of recomposition from October 2017, which will probably lead us to nine phases from now on, from the judgment. But despite all of us here and despite all of our objectives they are keeping, especially because in these tough months the citizens of this country have come back to draw – once again the other, and up to four – the very most clear at the polls; a clear yes to the dialog, a clear yes to the way to the republic and a no round to the blockade and the threat. Most of this country says yes to the ballot box, says yes to republicanism, says yes to sovereignism, and the government and this parliamentary group understand it as we have always done: at the same time we are defending the Catalan Republic, at the same time we are defending independence as we are to build a country for everyone, a country that I do not leave behind, because only then can the country advance nationally. There is no country without its people; we will not advance to a new institutional framework without shielding the rights and freedoms of the citizens. And that is why, despite everything, we insisted on the need for a government, a government that has recovered the momentum of institutions. And, as well as the obstacles, and the thousand difficulties, today we have good examples of policies and I'll just highlight a few because I don't want to climb with the president. Finally, new constructions and major reforms to school equipment; new places for the teacher, for the Mossos and for the Bombers; a great pact against school segregation; strengthening primary care; defending guaranteed citizenship income; limiting the price of logger – what we say, equal opportunities and social rights. Identification of the first victims of the Civil War; the historical memory is more alive, by the more land we throw into the mountain. Re-opening of external delegations to continue explaining to everyone. Protect with the laws you'd take care of the rest of the country. The inn on the day of the payments to the joints. Republican politics always, though. You accuse the government of inaction. Even so, some try to ridicule him; it's easy: first they train institutions, they occupy them with black lords to paralyze them and then they come out here and say they don't go. Easy, but above all cheating. It is more complicated to assume the responsibility of managing day to day and to do so with a government conditioned by exceptionality and in a context of repression that does not stop and that is palpable. MPs and MPs, during this year we have ruled in a very adverse context, in a context of resistance, and we have invested every minute in working for the people of this country, because we do not understand another way of doing it, without the tools, not that we would want, but the tools that all the citizens of this country deserve. We've managed a recovery, transition, and move to a development and construction phase. We resisted the repression and usurpation of institutions. Now, we must enter a new stage, which is republican construction, which allows us to move forward inexorably, not firmly, towards our goal, which is nothing more than the independence of this country. They wanted to cut us off with a tax and a bite, but the government resisted. And now we have to get through this stage, which has certainly been provisionally read, to continue moving forward with the country, day by day, step by step, making more, always making more. And we want to do more because there's never enough, and we hope and hope that that's the way it is, because it's what people deserve, but we need to make it easy for all of us to fold up to do it. This government put on the table some decent, just and social assumptions, which recovered the levels of reversal before the crisis, but you did not dare, some pertactically and others for cowardice, and you rose from the table and gave up doing more for this country. So, now, your responsibility, vaginate beyond criticism for being a refugee, for being everywhere, for being able to take hands, and not doing it for us, do it for all the citizens to whom you, all of you, also represent; obstruct the government and demand that it advance at once..., but this does not help any català, votes to whom you vote. Exceptionality conditions us all, citizens, parliamentary groups and also Government. Let's face it, especially now that the proper mesos will return to be intense and predictable unjust. The government must be strengthened, because the debate will be tough. And, to do so, it has to relate more than ever to municipal, cross-cutting, progressive and hegemonic republicanism. But to answer it, we will need all of us, and we will need more extensive, to offer it, to offer it, and to restore it; to be valiant, all of us, that no one does not stand back, and to follow, to follow and to follow, for civil rights and freedoms, for social rights and for equal opportunities, for republican values and for the Catalan Republic. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.161.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.162.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President Torrent. Many honorable President Torra, advisors and advisers, deputies and deputies..., first of all, Mr President, we thank him for his willingness to always compare – always –, here in the Parliament of Catalonia, to give his face, to explain before the people of Catalonia and before the whole citizenry the ingenious task... and today we have to thank him for his impeccable speech, his detail of the work of government, of the multiple work of government of the different councils, of the whole Government of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, which embraces the whole country, which embraces all the social structures. I think it was a speech that exposed all the false rhetoric that was built from the opposition. And today, which is a year ago by the Government of the Generality and which makes this balance, the first value that we have to do, that we have to do, is that, despite the difficulties, despite the repression, despite the enormous passages of the State, financing deficits, infrastructure deficits, will cover the entire legislative dynamics of the Government of the Generality of Catalonia from the previous legislature and also from this, despite the enormous challenges that have been faced – waves, mobilizations, etc. – we have a strong government – we have a strong government – we have a government that works – we have a government that works – and we have a government that gives face to all and all the social persuasions and all the Catalans, believe in the execution of the Polish, and so on. And I think that all the extensive and comprehensive listing that has been made, President, makes a very clear statement that there is an obvious willingness to work, but that it is also clear that it is only the independence project that can bring us some new structures, a new state, to make a better country. It's also close today to making a swing, and a swing this year. And surely now is the best time to remember and remember, and remember where we were just a year ago, Mr. President, and I am convinced that you will share it in a full manner. We live in a world that's all very fast, that's all very liquid, that's all very fast; it looks like the pictures of the "Instagram Story", that go by in a hurry, but the facts are what they are. And do we remember the context of just a year ago? I think Mr. Iceta has made some reference. Remember that press of the "Actual government? Don't you? « Government must be done! Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! , the baton, the mantra, "there is no government to the Generality, and the statements made by the leaders of 155, and powerful publishers of communication media, and certain economic and practical powers. So, do you remember everything there? "No, it is that, if there is no effective government in Catalonia continues 155, "if there is no effective government in Catalonia it is not possible to resolve the political conflict, "if there is no effective government, eh? , in Catalonia..., "it is that prisoners continue to be imprisoned because there is no effective government. And it's been a year and they've seen the reality. It has been a year and indeed – indeed – the Government of Catalonia continues to intervene on behalf of the State, from an economic point of view, as the Vice-President Aragonès always claims. Or it effectively continues the pressure on the Cos dels Mossos d'Esquadra. That's true. And effectively continue the prisoners in prison and continue the repression in Catalonia. With one year, we have more lawsuits than not a year ago. This is actually done. And at the same time we have seen the fact that, with the motion of inclusive censorship, with the independent votes to change Mr. Pedro Sánchez, we see that he did not actually wish for the Spanish State to speak, he did not intend for the Spanish State to resolve the conflict that exists between Catalonia and Spain. And he didn't want to face it bravely. It's more, they've taken away the real dial. Moreover, they have taken refuge in any political dialogue to find a political solution. And it's also – and it's also – the country is there, and it's still the Catalan society, and we've seen it with the result of all the choices that have been made, where independence has always won. There are some opposition groups, 155, that speak of 'unstable', right? , "the instability such, such... Mr. Iceta makes reference to it. And some of those who now want to be his accomplices also refer to it in these terms. But how can you, lords of the 155th tripartite, how can you give lessons? If in these moments the government that is most unstable is that of the Spanish State, that there is no parliamentary majority. If the government that is most unstable, that has to be clarified, it is you, that have to decide with whom they want to govern and how they want to govern. If the Spanish State in one year had three governments. If the Spanish State in three years there have been three elections! Well, that's unstable, that's not knowing who the north is, that's not knowing and not having orientation. And what is obvious is that here in the Parliament of Catalonia, despite all these conditions of repression, as well as the CUP's company began in its initial speech, so there is a government that rules, a government that gives its face, a government that works for all Catalans and Catalans, a strong government, that has a program and that has an objective. You, lords of the 155th tripartite – lords of Ciutadans, Mr. Iceta, lords of the People's Party –, are not authorized to speak of instability, because if something has been shown to be an example of instability, and if something has been shown to be that you do not want to resolve the conflict with Catalonia causes a huge instability in the Spanish State. Few lessons can give us – few lessons. And what we have seen is zero willingness to respect democracy and election results; this has indeed been evidence for the past year. You did not accept the results of the 21st of December, which revalidated the 1st of October. This Parliament is the son of '1 October, the independenceist majority of this Parliament is the son and daughter of '1 October, and you have not accepted this result. They did not accept the investiture of President Puigdemont; they did not accept candidate Jordi Sánchez; they did not accept, with an ignominious fact, that the Jordi Turull, therefore, could become invested president of the Generality. As they did not accept the outcome of October 1. How they did not accept the result of the reference of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. Since they did not respect the outcome of the elections to the Congress of Deputies and the Senate, which were... in fact, they remained swift, to suspend the political rights of the deputies to the Congress and of senators. Since they do not respect the outcome of the European elections in Catalonia either, almost 50 % of Catalans and Catalans have voted for independence, and they do not want and will put all possible steps forward because President Puigdemont can take the Minutes of the European Parliament. Nor do they respect the election results, as they pass to the capital of Catalonia, which do not respect that the most voted force has the mayor's office. This has been the reality and the reality throughout this year. And, unfortunately, we see as the tripartite of 155..., accept this reality, every time there are a few, that they take care, that they are the lords of the Commune, that they are more portrayed with their new alliances with the tripartite of 155, in order not to respect democracy. But, tanmateix... [[Funnel veils]] – and, ladies and gentlemen – President, you know that you have a solid, strong parliamentary majority that you intend to continue working for a better future, that you want freedom, that you are the freedom of all, that you are the freedom of political prisoners and the return of exiles. And that's why we have to work for the Catalan Republic. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.163.0	Thank you, Congressman. The representatives of the parliamentary groups and sub-groups have once spoken, the President of the Generality now responds. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.164.0	Yes; good morning again, President, Members of Parliament, Councillors and Councillors. Well, despite the difficulties that there are, despite the blockades that you want to impose, despite your lack of respect for the majority that arise from the elections, despite the fact that it comes out of 155, despite the historical debts of the State, to which unfortunately I find that no one has ever wanted to make reference, despite the denial of the dialect, despite all the measures approved and carried out by this Government, unfortunately, this Government remains determined to comply with its plan of government and to continue working throughout the country. We have a warrant, the 21st of December, and to which they owe us. Miri, Mrs. Roldán, do you have any constructive proposals, you? [[Pause.]] Yeah? So, listen to me, see if one day we're listening to him, because the truth is that he gets tired, frankly, he's always listening to the same... Or so, the theme is the same, the theme is the same, the speech is the same. We, escort'm, Mrs. Arrimadas, know that she told us to live in Matrix, but it's that you see the country of the marmot, it's that it's always the same, its speeches. [[Widow's remorse.]] Really, they get tired a lot. I don't think you've brought in a little bit. And the truth is, I'd ask you for another thing. « Theatreillo, « toxic, « supremacist, « gasoline, I don't know what... I don't know, they are terminology to which we have not been accustomed here in Parliament. I..., if you think that at this new stage..., thought: "Look, maybe it starts and you're lucky to have another type of debate with the Ciutadans Group. But I see they're still on the same line. It's very difficult to debate this way. Anyway, I would, at least on the couple of concrete themes that you've dealt with, so answer it, huh? All the rest, let's say, the gift for cushioning, but you... We're talking about accessibility to hospital waiting lists. I just want to put down a date, too, the last few years, the best they've ever produced. The year 2015, 87_percent of the patients intervene in the stipulated time – 2015 –; the year 18 completes it in a 94_percent of the cases, eh? From 87_per_cent to 94_per_cent of alert cases in waiting lists. In Catalonia we are capdavanters in guarantees in time of access, guaranteed more than the State. Example: We guarantee a time of access to oncological surgical interventions or we guarantee access to heart interventions in noranta dies; in Espanya they are 100_nights. And we want to do even more right for people in access to health services, of course. And that's why the Health Department is preparing a decree with three new procedures in time of hope guaranteed, one hundred and forty days, for breast reconstruction, for the reconstruction of colostomy and for the reconstruction of urostomy, and with our priority criteria. Another of the few facts that you have commented in your speech is that you say that we have gone down in tourism. The truth is that I don't know what data you have, but we are the first state destination in travel and spending by foreign tourists – April 2019 –, and the increase of..., the spending for tourists and the number of tourists has risen. Mr. Iceta..., and I thank him, in turn, for his intervention, an intervention that I think contrasted with data, and that's why I think it's relevancy. I think we have different data – that's what I have to say too – between them and what I can offer. But I'm going back to insist that I'm sorry, and I'd like it now perhaps, on this return that you have, if you can also refer to whether it seems to you that the state's failings are acceptable or not. I think it would also be worth the fact that this part of the debate is also manifest, if it seems to you well that the failure of the third additional provision follows, for example– for example, eh? And I'm also sorry, I can't do it any other way, that it's all about moving around, this prosecution, this repression, so it's not for you, too, at least I'll comment, huh? I don't think we can judge this year aseptically, I'm not in a lab or an aseptic surgery, not: it's a year with a determined environment, with enormous difficulties, with their companions, who share these escons, who are in prison or exile, and I think that this should be put in full. But you've talked about data, you have, and I think it's worth keeping this debate on some of them. We commented... and I think that on the subject, for example, of the labor market, we start with different data. I have to say that the first quarter of 2018 was 12,2_per_cent; the first quarter of 2019 was 11,6_per_cent, it's like we've dropped, we've dropped 0,6 points less, and we're still under that Spanish, which is kept in 14,7_per_cent. And, according to the Labour Force Survey of the first quarter of 2019, Catalonia begins the year maintaining the level of occupation, reducing the number of jobs, and with an increase in the labour force of 75,600 more people. I don't know where the differences between their figures and these can be, but it seems to me uplifting and it seems to me important that citizenship at least has the opportunity, therefore, to compare them. High-tech Catalan exports increased by 5.6_per_cent annually in the first quarter of 19. On the 18th, we struck the historical memory for eight years. Catalonia leads the exports of the State with a 25.3_per_cent of the total, much per envelope of Andalusia – 11.7_per_cent– or the Valencian Community – 11.3_per_cent– and Madrid – 10.5_per_cent. It is also worth putting our 25.3_per_cent in relation to other communities that, besides, like Madrid, enjoy the capital factor, which is an important factor at the time of establishing these indicators. Again I insist on the data I gave to the deputy of Ciutadans: we are the first state destination in displacement and expense of foreign tourists, and it increases the 9,3_per_cent of the expense and the number of tourists. On the Bressol schools, which you also referred to, you must remember that 2011 the State reduced its contributions to zero in education from zero to six years and that, before that, the government then decided to prioritize its scarce resources in financing the three- to six-year stage; looking for other financing lives, it was certainly done through the diputations. And the course 2017-2018 we were able to school 38,1_percent of the children and children who have the age from zero to three years, the highest rate of the last two years, all these difficulties I gave you in 2011. Our willingness to reverse this situation is clear and manifest, and it is a compromise that we have explained since the beginning of the legislature, and it is in the proposal that we have drawn up assumptions that we have unfortunately not been able to talk to you about. About Mrs. Albiach, ordinary, me, really, huh? I'm sorry, it's that talking about political exceptionality and accepting Mr. Valls' votes is not compatible – it's not compatible. It's that Mr. Valls represents all the opposite; or else, he represents giving political normality to political exceptionality, he represents whitening a policy that you just did to me, I don't know... I think he mentioned me as a friend of Macron's, and I think Macron's friend is Mr. Valls. I mean, exactly what I'm asking you... I've told you very clearly: I still trust you; you have forty-eight hours to sort. You can sort: you are on the side of those who are defending the rights and freedoms of Catalans or you can accept Ciutadans' votes. And it's a decision that they only correspond to you, and you will have to make that decision. I do want to correct a subject. You said the government was lost. No, no, Maybe... I must have expressed it badly, but I did say that those who were lost were you, precisely because of this decision you have to make. I thought they were at a certain cost, but the one you are about to vote dissipated from the Barcelona Assembly, I think it puts them at a very important crux and that I suppose you are appreciating. On one of the more concrete issues that you have entered, which is also true that you have entered, I would like to comment, in your case..., I think that some other group..., Mr. Iceta has also done..., but the subject of the barracks. Since the 2008-2009 course, there have been twenty-and-seven centres with total prefabricated modules; there have been one hundred and twenty in the 2008-2009 course to ninety-three centres with total modules in 2018-2019. And all of our centers with modules are basically due to high school, but they don't get rid of each other any more than they do. And I would like to point out the effort that precisely has been made by the Education Department, Councillor Bargalló, which, in addition to the presuppositional extension, the Government approved last April the charge of twenty-seven school buildings, for an import of more than 100_million euros, corresponding to the highest priorities. Now, even with this situation of presupposition, let's see why, where urgent and priority needs to be allocated to it, let's do it. Of these twenty-and-seven, twenty-one are new construction; five, great expansions, and one is a comprehensive rehabilitation. All the works will begin to build up in a slaone way until 2023 and allow the removal of more than a hundred modules. At the same time, the Education Department is pushing some other thirty-seven actions, with an import of more than 152_million euros, which are currently under construction or which already have presuppositional availability; 104_million euros for one cost, 152 for the other. Also respect – that you have not done anything – the subject of dependence and of the people who are on the list of hope, badly, and that we also share that so much good – so much good – cannot be so, but I would also like to say some facts that are at our disposal, and that I think that, in this effort, this effort that has been made since the Council of Social Affairs and Treball, therefore, we must put it in all its value, and I also do so. The past month of February we set aside a plan to reduce waiting lists for disability and dependency ratings, investing more than €750,000, and it has improved objectively. They've made and they're making efforts. At the beneficiary level, as I said before, we currently have 171,722 people– we have increased the beneficiaries by almost five thousand people– and at the benefit and service level we have 211,354 people, also having increased its beneficiaries by 6,460. To the companies of the CUP I would also like to thank them, from the differences we have, that it is certain that we have them, in the social model, economic that we want for our country free, your to, and, if you will allow me, also, I make your last words: we are in time to change the course, because we are certainly in time to change the course. There's a nice phrase from Martin Luther King, he says: "It's always the right time to do the right thing. Are we doing the right thing? Deputies of the majority of the sovereignists, are we doing the right thing? That's what you're asking us all. I think the CUP is asking all the questions today. I'm pulling her back. That is why, if you will allow me, I have tried, and will try, and I will strive until I get there, in this round of contacts that we will have all the folds so that we can keep going – because we are in time to change the course, and that we involve all those who believe in the future of our country in freedom – to find this strategic unit than at these times, if it has always been more necessary than ever, since the application of 155, I see it absolutely vitally, at these times. We can't face the answer we have to give like the country to feelings, if these aren't absolute, if we don't have this strategic unit. And not just political parties, I insist; we have to be on the side of a city that's always there, we have to be on the side of entities that are always there, and so they're questioning us and shouting out loud: "Do you want to do the favor of getting involved? - I tell them to us, huh? And they're saying, "We're still on time. We're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're... And I, I insist, think it's the right time to do the right thing. The deputy of the PP, who gave me a zero, in his assessment... home, he already knows me hard, huh? , that I'm worth a zero, but I'd still know it would be harder for the citizens to evaluate me with a zero, like you. I mean, this is a little bit of a question. I mean, we value each other and score each other at zero, look, in the end it has the relative importance that it has, but what matters is the votes, what matters is the support of the citizenry. And while you're in a situation... I don't know, before I look like someone's referring to the Titanic orchestra, right? Sooner or later, apply 'heaven not yours. I do not believe that there has been a result in the European Union's government that gives support to this government as it has to the European elections with ours. I don't remember that in other European countries the government that is in front of that country has rejected a 50_percent support of voters, huh? You normally know that the European elections are just that, or take advantage of them in many cases to give a touch of attention, an electoral win to the government that is in office. We've had the best result, the two government games, than ever. So, I think his zero, so I wanted to tell him that he has a relative importance to me, huh? You always talk a lot about I don't know the president of all Catalans. I imagine that as Mr. Rajoy should not be the president of all Spaniards, I don't know, but they have never asked you that Mr. Rajoy wasn't, the president of all Spaniards, when, for many Catalans, he didn't represent us, Mr. Rajoy. I don't know why I don't know the president of all Catalans and Mr. Rajoy, in turn, was always the president of all Spaniards. That's what I'm saying for any other... [[Greetings.]] Because in this plan of government there must have been, and in this year of government, that, I'm listening, the growth of 2_percent of GDP is not just for the independenceists, no, no, it's for all Catalans; that we're lowering the rate as we've lowered it is not for all independents, it's for all Catalans, it's for all Catalans; that we're targeting 900_millions of employment policies is not for the self-employed, it's for all Catalans; that we're targeting housing policies, sanitation or education policies like the ones I just answered is not for the independenceists, it's for all Catalans. And I think, with that, when you guys need this government and this president saying he's not the president of all Catalans, you do a little favor to the institution we represent. To Esquerra and Junts for Catalonia, thank you. I'm the groups that you support the government. If you'll excuse me, I'm the one who's also here..., enjoying, I think, the words that have been heard by the majority of the independenceists in this chamber, I would call on you to conjure us up, to conjure us up for the progress of this country, for equality, for opportunity, for this better country. And all of this we've done, and all of this we can do, if we're able to pull the wire of the first October and that strategic unit that brought us back at that time. I'll make every effort to make this possible. I am open to listen to all the proposals that are being made, all of them. And so, yes, they do demand that all the folds, that we have manifested this will, so, we find..., and we are at the height of the moment. And I think that that would also help us to adopt assumptions that are good for all Catalans. I think that would help us, too. We have for a few weeks and a few complicated months; as we have passed, neither more nor less, just as complicated. But the government of President Puigdemont and Vice President Junqueras also had some very complicated moments ahead, and they kept going, and they kept going. I ask the majority of this chamber to follow the lead, so I have no doubt that this is what we are doing, and I know that we will do it, I mean, I have no doubt that we will do it. And, of the opposition groups, I give thanks to what we've had for this debate built on figures, really; I think that's worth it. Now, the other debates that there is no way to get in there ever, so, to value, why? , why don't you bring in data, because they're just part of an absolutely destructive rhetoric, I'd honestly ask them, huh? I would ask you, if we want to build a Catalonia in good standing, to start talking in good standing in this room, to start being able to cover all the requests for escorts..., like the debate that, if it allows me, then, I have had with Mr. Iceta, with whom we may not have shared, but with data. Do it, this debate with data, huh? And we won't lose ourselves to other issues that are not the object of this debate. In any case, at all, many thanks. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.165.0	Thank you, President. It is the return of parliamentary groups now, again, to the reply; according to Rule 172.3 of the Rules, for a maximum of five minutes for groups and two minutes and a half for subgroups. It has the word, first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.166.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Torra, you haven't done a little bit of self-criticism, not even a little bit; you haven't even answered me, backwards: you come and ask me what my group has done. I don't know if you realize that in what we are doing is in your appearance and that you are the president of the government, you don't have to come to check what the opposition is doing. Still, I'm going to answer what we're doing, because it looks like you don't know much about it. You show that you have no idea what is going on in this Parliament, because Citizens this year as President of the Generalitat is the party that has put forward the most proposals in this Parliament. [[Greetings.]] And besides, I'm going to tell you. We have also introduced a law precisely to end the inequalities that exist in health, and you have laid it down. We have also introduced a law to protect children, which we were talking about school harassment, and you have come out here and again you have not dedicated even... nothing, not a minute to talking about school harassment, with the data I have offered you. Well, we have introduced a law to protect children. A law also to make textbooks free. A law also to lower the IRPF to Catalans, who have you suffocated to taxes. We have also asked for the gratuity of day care from zero to three. We have done a lot of things, but you are not aware of what is happening in this Parliament, if I have told you before. Look, I was also asked what note, like Mr Alejandro Fernández, what note I put to your management this year. I didn't even get him to put the zero; I put an unsubmitted one, because you're not here. You do not come, you do not know what is happening in this Parliament or what is happening in Catalonia, you do not know. You're the absent president. And you said that you don't care about the note the parties can put on, that you care more about the note the Catalans put on. Well, look, according to the CEO – the CEO, huh? – 53,1_per_cent of Catalans believe that this government does not know how to solve the problems. If that is what the CEO says, what will not be the reality of what Catalans think about their governance? Really... and I've left a lot of things in my mind, because, of course, you haven't given me time, because you have unlimited time, you come here demanding dialogue and talking so much about dialogue, but here what you practice is the monologue. You had unlimited time, but we didn't. Look, for example, at that cop you've made up, that you've made yourself up, that, how much money has it cost us? – How much money has it cost us? – because, of course, it turns out that the mossos go with the vests that are not in condition. It is very sad to see how you put the process ahead of the security of all Catalans and of the officials and workers themselves. I asked him too... well, he didn't say anything to me at all. I asked him about the school harassment, he didn't answer me. I have asked you whether you are going to allocate any kind of resources in those fictitious budgets that you say you have submitted for day care. I asked him about the waiting lists in health; he didn't tell me anything either. I asked him about the increase in poverty, what measures are being taken by the Government to alleviate the increase in poverty. He has not answered me either to the doubts I have, me and all of Catalonia, about what they intend to do with vocational training. I also asked you what measure, if you had taken any measure so that any of those five-thousand companies that have gone, that have gone, according to the data of the registry..., that they would return to Catalonia, and you did not know how to tell me... – look, one more has gone in these very days: General Electric, the last one –, did not know how to tell me any measure. Do you know why? Because the only measure that has been taken from the Enterprise Department is to place Mrs. Joana Ortega, who has gone from being sentenced by the Supreme Court to collect a salary from the Generalitat. The only ones that go well with the process are their friends; the Catalans already I assure you not. But you don't know that, because it's because you're more focused than what's going on in Waterloo, what's going on at trial. You live outside the reality of Catalonia, you are the absent president. I told him about barracks, too. Do you have any plans for children to start studying in decent conditions? I was talking to him before his big hits; he hasn't given me time to finish. Do you remember the first thing you did when Sanchez decided to open the money tap? You gave extra 20_million_euros to TV3, it is not going to be that, of course, they would stop making any of those reports to their campaign candidates or issuing the minutes of silence of those who are not in the debate; extra 20_millions that are added to the annual 258_million_euros that costs TV3. Well, look, I'm telling you a fact – I'm telling you a fact. With that money that you spend each year on TV3 you could eliminate all the barracks of Catalonia at once, all the barracks of Catalonia. And to me, that I do get good math, not like Mrs. Budo..., I have it here calculated, and then I'm going to give it to you – then I'm going to give it to you – because, if you don't know how to end the barracks, we do know it. No barracks forever. But no – no – you prefer to spend it on the propaganda agitation apparatus, because, of course, someone has to spread the fake news to you, don't you? Those that have been repeated here today again talking about that United Nations report. Stop fooling the Catalans. You don't want to rule; you like the mess, the propaganda, the loop, the little trips, the fake news. He told me to make proposals. Well, do you know what I'm saying? I announce that from Citizens we will register and ask for a full monograph on the future of Catalonia, with the proposals that we do have for Catalonia. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] If you can't, you don't want to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.167.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.168.0	...or do not dare to solve the problems of Catalans, let go of those who are indeed committed to this land. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.169.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the return of Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.170.0	Thank you, President. As a contribution to this final part of the debate, we already know that we will have a general government policy debate. So maybe you don't have to lose a monogram that you can go for something else. But, in any case, president, I apologize, because the patent will make me unable to extend on some of the questions that you have raised. As you are a lover of the classics, I..., constantly came to mind that phrase, that expression: "The gods blind those who want to lose. Because it's that, sometimes, things are said from this rostrum that I don't know if they see us very far from here – I mean other galaxies –..., see a president of a whole government before a parliament talking about repression, lack of opportunities for dialogue and debate, you have to think that maybe we're not at all. I think we have instruments of political debate and very powerful agreement; another thing is that maybe we don't know how to get them to go. And sometimes you live, I believe, in a certain virtual reality, that of the obedient disobedience of the republic does not exist, to tell you something, because we actually have a legal framework. And I am going to ask you, and I am doing so with all humility, that this decision of the European Court of Human Rights on the appeal lodged by seventy-six Members of this Parliament is legislating. They're asking for them. They're asking because maybe they'll find some of the motius that disables some of the installations that they tell us they want to do. When you say..., you explained a lot of the phrase "we will do it again. I will not repeat the grammar and content explanation. The problem is the "ho, what are we going to do again: skip our law? , to dispense with the opinion of half the Catalans? Uplifting the right of the opposition? Is that all in this thing or is it something else? I'd appreciate it a lot more than anything else. Because, really, when they wanted to take away non-existent rights, we're pretty bad, and I say it in plural, we're pretty bad. And you've done me the rest that I may not have talked about the exceptionality of the situation and the judicial system. Miri, in two minutes I had to make a judgment of your government. And what I wouldn't want is for the other judge to be used to escape from what must be legitimate, parliamentary criticism of the opposition to the government there is. And, therefore, I couldn't talk about all the things I'd like. We followed him a lot, this judgment, and he suffered a lot, for the justices and for the justices, that I would not like to be in his hair either. We listened to the witnesses, we listened to the attachments, we listened to the lawyers. Listen, I guess opinions are still as divided as they were before. But some of the defenses that have taken place have put themselves in a position that perhaps the certain ones with whom certain things are manifested from this rostrum may not be as solid as the ones who defended them with that slowness. And, therefore, what I ask is prudence – prudence. What you're asking is as simple as: "We'll have to make a dialog, but this dialog has a pre-empted request, which is the acceptance of legality until we have the majority to change it. President, it's not really a question, I think, if we think about the country's conjunct. Because you're right; you're an independentist and you want the independence of Catalonia. And it's logical, and I'm never going to do it out of the sight of what its ideal is. To which I do believe I have right is to do toilets if to get to build this ideal climbs the rights of others, if to get to build this ideal jumps a law that is the standard of coexistence of all folds. I know that, yes, that's certainly also questionable, what I'm saying; I only ask that someone think about it, that someone thinks about it, because it's that some things that have happened to us have to be taken away from them. You asked me for something specific that I want to say clearly. He said: "You do not speak of the incompliments of the State. Listen to me, I want the State to be pleased. And, in fact, this is why, among other reasons, our group was very illustrative of the prospects that opened up the project of general assumptions of the State: surely insufficient, but there we saw them, 2,200_million euros in public investment from the State to Catalonia. And it seemed to us that it was good news. But unfortunately there were no majorities there and they couldn't approve. And lastly, different data. Miri, data... we're bringing them all from the same place. Sometimes it's the periods that change. We are concerned about the economic situation; we appreciate the better, but we believe that we could do much more, to make it more sustainable and that you reach everyone. And this is the debate we need to have – probably in the general policy debate will be the time. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] But after you know it: with one year this Parliament has not approved any law coming from its government. That's an interesting fact.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.171.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.172.0	And the lack of assumptions – and I forgive, president of the chamber – is from our point of view the most obvious proof that the government has not been on the rise. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.173.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.174.0	Yes, thank you, President. President, I didn't tell you that you're a friend of Macron's. What I told him is that he recycles Macron's motto, because « Catalunya in March is a copy of « France in March of Macron's elections. But, said this, I have the feeling that you in your turn have tried to speak of other things that were not your year of government or of government, because I was trying to speak of other fears that I think do not answer the issue of the appearance that today brought us here. But I'm just going to tell you that there's no state operation or, of course, no country response. I believe that the country's answers must be given in a civic, unitary and democratic way when a sentence arrives..., that we hope it will remain absolute, but that everything points to that it will not be a personal one, to say it in some way, and that, moreover, we have always said that the only just feeling would be freedom. And the country's answers must be given to topics as difficult as school segregation, as denunciations, or as the fight against masculinist rapes. Country responses must not be given before a situation of democratic normality such as making majorities alternatives to the most voted list. That said, in your reply you did not give me a single answer to the main question of my intervention, which was the object of your government. And I don't know if it's because this government went unobjective. If your goal was to make republic, it failed. If it was to improve the life of the citizenry, it failed. If it was to reduce inequality, it also failed. And if it was to co-ordinate independence, you already know the answer. What we see is that this government – and I have already said this in my initial intervention – has only served a process that was almost automatic, as was the rise of Article 155. Well, that's why and for one other thing, that at the end we're wearing a year in which what we've seen, what's happened is that the hegemony of independence has gone from the hands of the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia to the hands of the Republican Left. That's what happened in this year of his government. And, besides, it happened with the benefit of the elites, as we saw the other day at the Circle of Economy. Because, for the rest, what we see is that his government has been flushing away the little ones, and a lost year, a year of governance is too much time for any country, also for Catalonia. You have generated frustration between props and aliens; you have generated frustrations for your gangs on the national issue, because your gangs are disoriented, because you don't know where they are going and why the rest of the citizenry, that you haven't voted them but you do recognize them as government, you see that we have an institution that is absolutely alien to your concerns, that you neither listen to them nor ask them. Meanwhile, he advanced the degradation of public services, and increased the abstraction of his government, which is unable to look beyond the next week, he is an winged government, and, yes, he has also achieved one thing: he has assumed that very different sectors of society, that we have absolutely different ideas, we agree on one thing, and it is to denounce the inaction of this government. He's also been talking a little bit more about assumptions, and I'm just gonna say two things. The first one I've already said before: we won't whitewash assumptions that don't follow social. And the second thing: I remembered that we were also talking about a tax reform; a tax reform without which it is impossible to have sufficient resources to shield our public services, to guarantee fiscal justice and to redistribute wealth. And yes, of course I believe that the State must comply with its obligations and that it has been abusive to Catalonia. That's what we've always said, and we'll keep reporting it. But from here, too, it has to be done, and it has to be done a lot. And it is not, as they say, magically, during the negotiation of assumptions, to push taxes to the working and middle classes, but to those they have most, with taxes that already exist and with green taxes. Certainly, every time we have presented a tax reform, a tax reform, in this Parliament, you have fallen, and you have done so with the People's Party and Citizens. I do not know if the next time we present a tax reform in this Parliament they will tell the People's Party and tell Ciutadans that they do not want their votes. [[Some applause.]] I'm done. We are not a force that sees here only to carry great proclamations or to make a good diagnosis of reality, but we come here also to make proposals. The first: we insist on the need for social assumptions. Second: we need to be prepared and prepared as a country to give a civic, peaceful and democratic response to a feeling that might not be appropriate. I think political forces also need to come to terms with their sister and be willing to talk about everything. And great chords to get a social Catalonia, feminist and green. President, we've lost a year as a country, because you have so many differences within the government, inside, that every time you try to do something ends up controversy and it's messy, and so it's impossible to move forward. So, while they decide when is the date of their own elections in Catalonia, I just have to ask him that if you please try not to stuff things further. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.175.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now it is the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, of the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.176.0	President, you know, we don't stick to analysis and criticism. We've done it before. And despite the fact that it's the opposite, we always make proposals; we always go with the proposals ahead, and also with the compromise to help materialize them as ever. In this sense, the UPC has made proposals to the government to defend sanitation, housing, public education, we have defended public control of services, we have apostatized for the public sector as the main promoter of the economy and also as the one that can guarantee universal rights. But if it continues to follow the path of outsourcing, privatization and trade in rights, we will have nothing left to self-determine because we have nothing. We have also asked for the democratization of the public bank, and that it continues to mediate the democratization of the Catalan Institute of Finance, and you continue with an absolute opacity. Look, we're all after a lot – civil society, parliament, government – of this whole situation, and that's why we want to place everyone who believes in civil and political rights. Let's go back to doing it, by the side of the organized people, by means of limits and impositions. Let's go back to defending the rights that are denied to us, taking them for dignity, because that's how we've always advanced in the right-wing contest. Yesterday in Jordi Cuixart he spoke to us about disobedience as a political instrument to deal with injustices and the conquest of rights, but he also spoke to us about the peril of excessive obedience, the excess of obedience. Today, you have boasted of being a student advantaged in the compliment of the rules of estabilisation, that pass before the people, or that pass before, the banks, of the people. We need to learn a lot. And the change must be absolutely radical; the change of course must be absolutely radical. Mr. President, we'll put it there. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] all the constancy, perseverance and intelligence that we have. So we're doing it, because we're...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.177.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.178.0	...very aware of which are the reptes that appear. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.179.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now it is the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of the deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.180.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, the first thing that has surprised her appearance and replica has been the unusual and sudden passion for the figures and data she has shown today, she had never shown it. It must have gone wrong, with how little you like these things. Just by imagining it in the room suffering from memorizing the data, it has already been worth this appearance. [[Rialles.]] But as soon as scratches come out the real Quim Torra. It's impossible to argue with you. I have asked you about a number of specific issues that I will repeat below, and you can only make fun of the fact that we only have four Members; the same ones as the CUP, but, well, in our case they deserve to be mocked, I think very well. But... we will have only four deputies, but they serve us to give a little lesson on politics, which I give you with all the modesty and humility of the world. Look, it's Perogrullo's or Sesame Barrio's, but I don't think it's clear to you: you rule and I make opposition – you rule and I make opposition. You do not oppose me: I oppose you. If you can't handle the pressure, I'll replace you, that the pressure motivates me, you climb up and pass it pipe making me oppose [[laughs and remorse of the eyes]] But it's up to me to take control of the government. And he has been unable to answer me and to make reference to the four things I have commented to him. Do you or do you not have a solid majority to deal with day to day? It has been repeatedly shown that in the essential votes no. Do you or do you not have budgets? He has not dared to present them rigorously. He said again that he introduced them. He did not present them rigorously; he did not mention it either. Is it true or not that we are at the stage of the year of the lowest legislative output since the recovery of democracy in Catalonia? It is true; nor has it been mentioned... Is it true or not that we are facing the stage of lower government production? That is true; it has not been mentioned either. As long as you are not able to answer these things, you can laugh a lot at the four Members of the People's Party, but the legislature will have no future and you will finally have to give up on reality, and it is that we will be faced with a sterile legislature, which will have served absolutely nothing and which can only have a logical purpose, which is the immediate call for elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.181.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr Sergi Sabrià. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.182.0	Thank you, President. Three quick points. I'll focus on our partners, let's say; therefore, to the PSC, to Ciutadans and to the Communs. [[Voice remorse and some applause.]] I'm starting with Ciutadans. It makes me feel like they don't care about the country, that they don't care about their people, that they don't know exactly what's going on, that the headlines work with the headlines and the headlines, that they always explain the same thing, and I give them an example of the last few hours. They come here to talk about equality, and then it turns out that in Andalusia, as Vox asks them, they take the term "gender rape" for intrafamily rape, because they have asked them to do so. So, listen, I have these principles, but if they don't like them, I have some more. So, zero lessons, Mrs. Roldán, that abhor us very much: that the chiringuitos, Waterloo, TV3, the language, the movements with the economic data... That they will come the year they see and explain the same, and to the monografic plenary on the future of the country will explain the same again. So, what do we know today? That the speaker changes and the speech is left; thank you. To Mr. Iceta. I'm surprised by the PSC's speech, because it's kind, it's purpose, but in the end it's the ones who always lock the door without listening, at all. [[Widow's remorse.]] Every time you're asking, you're telling me, you're never – never –...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.183.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.184.0	... never sit at the table. And you said, "Maybe they don't know how to do it; guarantee, they don't know how to do it. [[remorse of the voice]] Because we propose to talk about everything and do it without red lines, and we always propose the same. [[Greetings.]] And here we have representation in all the chambers: we can do it in Spain, we can do it in Parliament, we can do it in the assembly... But what do you do? Always lock the door. And, despite that, we will continue to insist, insist and insist, because the solution goes through a great deal that, as Junqueras said yesterday, returns to politics that should never have come out of politics. And this agreement needs you; it needs us, but it also needs you. So, you don't know, okay; but we will continue to insist that the solution is the dialog. [[Some applause.]] I to the common. Miri, they say that exceptionality conditions the action of government, and yes, the condition, of everything. Day to day is very – very – complicated – very. The repression was not over; I've reversed it, I think, more than half of the first intervention. I'm glad we're only conditioned, and this is where we're supposed to be together. You have tried to remain always neutral, "but not until today, until you have weighed them more than repression, until the crisis has been more important than judgment and revenge. The agreement with Valls will pursue them [[remorse of the voice]] And that's why they're up and ready for a deal with the devil. Just a little demand, huh? : lessons [[the remorse of the voice persists]] – lessons –, now...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.185.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.186.0	...the lessons...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.187.0	[[Addressing a Member of the left wing of the Chamber.]] Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.188.0	... they're done – they're done. [[Greetings.]] They're moving on to the highest right, the one who wants the linguistic immersion to disappear...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.189.0	One moment, one moment, Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.190.0	...with this one getting in, with this one.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.191.0	Deputy, one moment... one moment, Deputy Sabria... prou.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.192.0	Can I stop the time?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.193.0	Yeah. That's right. [[Pause.]] Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.194.0	Line up with the highest right, the one that wants the linguistic immersion to disappear, the one that wants us to disappear as a people. It makes them feel strange to talk about exceptionality when at the assembly, and also to the parliament – also, also to the parliament –, they work to agree with Ciutadans, the worst face of repression. And I don't say it anymore: I told them yesterday Varufakis. [[Widow's remorse.]] Miri, you're talking about a lost year, and you've never wanted to walk, you've never really wanted to talk about a presupposition, and you've finished the year and you've hugged Ciutadans, a great – great –, great contribution to the real problems of Catalans. And only one point to the CUP and the president. Totally agree: we need a unitary strategy, and we need to ask 80 percent of the citizenry, and we need to respond to feelings and set a new path to the exercise of the right to self-determination. And yes, we'll be back. And yes, October 1st marks our path. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.195.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.196.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Some replicas of the 155th tripartite [[remorse of the voice]] And his new associates, the lords of the commons, who join the party of the tripartite of 155, who don't respect the results of democracy... what a disappointment. What a disappointment, lords of the commons [[You're saying, "Oh! I'll give you a few applause.]] What a disappointment. What's left of the 15-M? – what's the 15-M left? Jo, look, I don't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.197.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.198.0	...I confessed to him, I didn't defend the 15-M, I confessed to him [[remorse of the voice]] But with the least... [[Funnel veils]] No, no, no, we haven't changed convictions to fall. [[Greetings.]] And that's what you're doing: changing falls by conviction. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.199.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.200.0	That's the reality. What disappointment – what disappointment. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, no... remind us of Mr. Coscubiela and Mr. Rabell from the previous legislature here. [[strong remorse of the eyes]] They remember us, don't they? They remind us, their speeches – they remind us. Lords of Ciutadans, who speak of "absent president– you must be the new mantra, eh? , the nova matraca –, man, per absente– per absente–, the mayors of Ciutadans de Catalunya. [[Applauds]] - No, no, no, By absence, the municipal governments with Ciutadans de Catalunya, which seemed to me to tend to zero, too. Out of the way, mirin, out of the way, Mrs. Arrimadas, because with this they show and prove Mrs. Roldán..., trying to make efforts, huh? , numbers, try here trying to imitate a little Mrs. Arrimadas, with her own..., but what is Ciutadans, which is a game that both with Mr. Rivera and with Mrs. Arrimadas has used Catalonia as a platform to go to Madrid, and more. This is your great absence as opposed to opposition. Zero– zero– proposals, zero proposals and zero reality. And when they can agree what they are: with Vox, always. When they can agree to the authentic face: with Vox, always. And you know what happens to them? That Catalans can fool them once, but masses can't. [[Widow's remorse.]] And that's Citizens, huh? They only saw the results of the elections in Catalonia in Ciutadans, before...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.201.0	Members...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.202.0	...his absence. And, look, I'm done with Mr. Iceta, huh? [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Mr. Iceta... no, we pose a serious problem, because Mr. Iceta tries to talk about galaxies when we have people in prison. [[applause]] , talking about aliens when we have people in exile, talking about realities of the harsh repression that you validated, because if you didn't give support to 155, if you didn't allow a government of the Generality to have ceased, you didn't lose your immunity and you weren't shouted at the lady of the National Audience and you weren't put in jail. And you know that, and you're the main accomplices. And for a year what have you shown? How many proposals from the Government of Mr Pedro Sánchez for Catalonia? How many? How many government actions? How many? [[Miquel Iceta and Llorens said: "Much.]] Say one – say one. Boss! [[Miquel Iceta and Llorens intervenes without using the microphone.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.203.0	Mr. Iceta, it's not his turn...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.204.0	Captain. Cap, Mr. Iceta – cap.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.205.0	Mr. Iceta, it's not his turn, now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.206.0	And it is only a reminder of certain resolutions. Look, we, the resolutions, we read them all: those who please us and those who do not like us. I hope you do, too. Because, as far as we can see, they're not doing it. Because there are resolutions calling for the freedom of political prisoners, and they're not doing it, that's what you are doing. Therefore, there is no partial memory. And also, listen'm, in time to read, election results, all. And in the last four elections, both on 21 December, as in the Spanish elections, in the European elections and in the municipal elections, independent victories. This is the reality and this is the duty that we as a parliamentary group owe to each other. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.207.0	Yes, Mrs. Roldán, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.208.0	Yes, Mr President, for a point of order, and also for personal allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.209.0	There are no allusions, because they have all praised each other. Say the question of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.210.0	No, I'm sorry, there have been personal allusions... I'll start with the point of order...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.211.0	Yes, yes, personal allusions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.212.0	...and you will understand the personal allusions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.213.0	Listen to me, listen to me, Mrs. Roldán... Of personal allusions there hasn't been all of us, and now we're not opening a second debate. The question of order; say.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.214.0	Look, this was a debate of the President of the Government's appearance, and Mr Sabrià and Mr Batet have devoted themselves, in the turn of reply, to alluding to the rest of the groups and responding to the rest of the groups. I already know that Mr Torra himself does not come out angry, that he has to send Mr Sabrià or, if not, Mr Aragonès; but you must bear in mind that this was a debate to reply to him and not to the rest of the groups. And, by the way, Mr. Batet, shake your shoulder a little bit, which has left a little supremacism on you. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'll give you a note: we're just as Catalan as you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.215.0	Mrs. Roldán, that's not allusions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.216.0	... barely weighs them. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.217.0	...you don't have the word. The debate was over. We suspend the session until four o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you. [[The session is suspended at two quarters of three in the late afternoon and resumed at four and four minutes. He chairs the Speaker of Parliament, accompanied by the Second Vice-President, the First and Second Secretaries and the Third and Fourth Secretaries. The Secretary General and the late Esther Andreu and Fornos attend the Bureau.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.218.0	Good afternoon. Let's take back the Ple. [[Motion for a resolution reiterating the presentation to the Bureau of the Congress of the Deputies of the Proposed Law on Reform of the Organic Law 10/1995, of 23 November, of the Criminal Code, decriminalization of euthanasia and assistance to suicide]] [[270-00001/12]] The fifth item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution, for which it reiterates the presentation to the Bureau of the Congress of the Deputies of the Proposed Law on Reform of the Organic Law 10/1995, of 23 November, of the Criminal Code, decriminalization of euthanasia and assistance to suicide. As the Spokesman's Board of Speakers of June 3rd agreed to forward this motion for a resolution to the plenary, we will start the turn of interventions by parliamentary groups and sub-groups, with a single intervention of five minutes for the group and two minutes and a half for the sub-group, so as to fix their position. We begin, in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, for Mr Martín Eusebio Barra. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.219.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, members of the public of the DMD entity and other people of the public accompanying us, welcome all. In July 2017, the proposal calling on the Congress of Deputies to reform the Criminal Code to decriminalize euthanasia and assisted suicide was already approved in this Parliament. The proposal we are debating right now is to reiterate this resolution, which we already adopted in 2017. In that debate, I myself, on behalf of my group, have already explained an aspect that is key to this issue and that was – and is – timely in the resolution. It is that, prior to the amendment of the Criminal Code, it is necessary to adopt a law that specifically regulates the conditions and requirements under which aid for suicide or euthanasia would be exempt from criminal liability. And that previous law must have the legal status of organic law; that is, it must have the approval of the absolute majority of our Congress of Deputies. Prior approval of an organic law is essential, basically for two things: on the one hand, in order to establish the conditions under which a person has the right to request that his or her death be carried out, and on the other, and not less important, and always with due respect to the conscientious objection of health professionals, this law is essential for our professionals, our good health professionals, to have all, absolutely all the necessary legal guarantees when faced with situations in which they are asked to collaborate with the premature death of their own patient. And this resolution of the Parliament, that of 2017, when it was dealt with in the Congress of Deputies, was also adopted there by a large majority. And just a month and a half later the Congress of Deputies approved the initiation of a bill to decriminalize euthanasia and assisted suicide, a bill that was in the process of tabling amendments when it was suspended due to the early call for general elections. Today what we are going to approve is to reiterate before the Congress of Deputies the request that we already made in 2017. And although it might seem that this repetition would not be essential, because the majority of the political groups represented in the Congress of Deputies have already expressed our willingness to draw up in the current legislature a law that, with due guarantees and in appropriate cases, decriminalizes euthanasia and assisted suicide, although it may seem unnecessary to reiterate our request, to adopt this proposal again today will allow us to remind the Congress of Deputies that it is pending to draw up that law that would subsequently amend the Criminal Code, and also to re-emphasize the desirability of not delaying its processing, I see, beyond the time necessary, for all the preceptive procedures to be carried out with all due regulatory and legal guarantees in order to be able to have a fully adequate legal precept for the purposes proposed. And I reiterate that these procedures must be carried out with all guarantees, so that the resulting law offers all legal certainty to both potential applicants and healthcare professionals, legal certainty which, if always necessary, is particularly relevant when it affects the Criminal Code in matters related to life or death. Our group will vote today in favour of reiterating our request to the Congress of Deputies and, as is stated in our electoral programme, we will participate in Congress in regulating the right to euthanasia, always with all the control and with all the guarantees that an act as important as advancing the end of a life requires. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.220.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the return of the deputy Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.221.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. I would like to begin this intervention by giving thanks again and again to the friends of the association, and to the friends, Right to a Dignity Death who today accompany us, for their commitment, for their work, for their tenacity and, above all, for being there. Its constant momentum is what awaits us in our legislative task. We are theoretically reiterating an agreement that this Parliament took in 2017 to call for the decriminalization of euthanasia, to exempt from criminal responsibility those who caused or cooperated with acts necessary to the death of someone who suffers a severe illness that causes physical or psychological suffering. But, beyond this repetition, what we want is to reaffirm ourselves in our commitment in the struggle for a worthy death, in the struggle for the recognition of a fundamental right: the right to live with dignity the process of death itself. Death, as we have said many times, is nothing more than the last act of one's own life, and we want this act..., for it wants the autonomy and freedom that has governed our life. We were reminded by members of the Committee on Bioethics of Catalonia in 2006 – this is 2019, huh? –, 2006: "The principles of dignity, autonomy and well-being of the patient are ethically acceptable and constitutionally possible to decriminalize euthanasia and help suicide. We will repeat, we will go back to the Congress of Deputies as many times as we need, as we have already approved in this very Parliament. And now more than ever we think we have a much wider majority. I want to thank and congratulate Ciutadans for his vote; in fact, they made an electoral compromise, and I see that they are completing it. And now, more than ever, we believe that this decriminalization will be taken into account in the Congress of Deputies, as will the Organic Law on the Regulation of Euthanasia, which introduced the PSOE and which will resubmit it and that the blockade at the Congress of Deputies left it unprocessed. Because what I would like to say to you today, apart from reiterating what we have already done, is that if we do not realize the decriminalization of euthanasia, while we do not follow the means of regulating it and doing it, we will find ourselves in this struggle like Angel Hernandez, who faces a judicial process instructed for a trial of violence against women. A few days ago Emma Riverola – because sometimes more worth taking the words of others – said: "For thirty-six years, Ángel Hernández took care of his companion Maria José, each time in a more complete way. The disease only added incapacitities, and in the end could not pass nor speak. I wanted to die. He demanded that he die. And he got to this country still hasn't been able to get there. And he turned it into a last act of dignity to claim a law that costs so much to get there. And they continued: "The hands that helped Mary Joseph to die were filled with love, healing, respect and dignity. We cannot equate or accept it at any time when it is equipped with violence against women, in respect of Mary Joseph and in respect of the thousand murdered women that we also remember these days. Therefore, we will reiterate the agreement and continue to work here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, as most of the parliamentary groups have said – it is not an initiative of the Government, it is an initiative of all parliamentary groups – to move forward with a proposal for a law of disposition of our own life, within the framework of our capabilities. And above all, as I said, I believe, the Member who preceded me must be a law of guarantees, of malaise, that I made clear the expression of his will, which intervenes and five control mechanisms, which assessment, and which also guarantees the protection of the most vulnerable collectivities. We don't have to let anyone in their vulnerability take advantage of them. We will, as I said, open the social debate and the parliamentarian, because Catalonia, which has already been in the forefront of palliative care, which I ask, if you please, that we will not confuse them any more, that it is clear that we cannot counter, neither by intention nor by procedure..., but, since we are, indeed, I would like to ask..., that here we have approved a motion for a guarantee of palliative care and that lately – taking advantage of the fact that I have the Council here – we have a little abandoned, that some PADES have disappeared from us from some towns and cities in Catalonia and, therefore, that we should recover. Because hardly... we don't want to counter this, but I think we need to give a guarantee of pal·liativities, as long as we're defending euthanasia. Therefore, little more to say, than to reiterate the majority that I believe we are succeeding in bringing it forward, the majority that we have expanded, and that it is maintained and that we are still able to do so. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.222.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.223.0	Thank you, President. On the 3rd of April, Ángel Hernández helped his wife, María José Carrasco, who had a severe terminal illness, to die. The Maria José multiple sclerosis disease since 30 years old, had a disability of 82_per_cent and needed at all times assistance to finish the most elementary daily activities. Attendance for the life that her husband had lent her for years. But she wanted to die, she wanted to put up with it, she wanted to put an end to the suffering, an individual decision, with full consciousness, that many people want to take: to put up with the suffering when it's already gone, when it's... – every one, isn't it? , has this individual shield –, when that ceases to be a life worth living. He gave him his hands; he's an assisted suicide. Now the audience in Madrid says that this has to be judged as gender-based violence. This is an indignity, and it is irresponsible on the part of policy makers who can change this situation that we continue to leave in the hands of judges the criminal interpretation of a fact that is not to be judged as gender-based violence: it is not to be judged, it is not to be considered criminal. And the only way to put an end to this indignity is through the criminal code, euthanasia and assisted suicide. That is why this proposal, which we approved in Parliament last parliamentary term to push this decriminalization into Congress. It continues to feel strong, it continues to feel urgent and it continues to feel necessary. And, therefore, I must send her back to the Courts for her processing. In Catalonia, he has already remembered, we have been pioneers in the regulation and practice of pal·liatius, of the vital will, to facilitate a more dignified death, always – always – you – for the Right association to Die Dignity in Catalonia and for its tenacity and persistence. Now we're moving back from Catalonia to the institutions of the State to take this final step of decriminalizing and urging the Congress to also regulate this new right of citizenship. I had the luxury of accompanying the Green Dawn and the Assumed Escape, of going on behalf of this Parliament to defend this proposal last April. And precisely it makes an impact on this element: we are regulating a new right, a new right of citizenship, a right of the 21st century, a right that must allow individual freedom to be exercised, that of being able to decide when, for each individual, the path that remains until death, until a certain death, is no longer of dignity. It is not a matter of imposing anything on anyone: neither to impose beliefs, nor to impose ethics, nor to impose religions; nor to spare freedom from anyone, nor anyone who wants to die when nature marks it and when medicine does not avoid it. It is only a matter of giving them the same option of individual freedom to those who do not now have it, to whom we place the shield of life worthy of a little before that point of natural death. The ideological principles of the Statute, of the Constitution, allow us to do so. The reality exists, we can't make the ornament. The case of the Angel and Mary Joseph is the last public case that shows it to us – the last public, not the last. And the Catalan people and the Spanish are broadly in favour of this new right. Therefore, it is only necessary to achieve this. And we cannot allow a new legislature to pass without this being achieved. The Parliament, by sending this bill back to the Congress, can once again work together to make this happen, and I think we need to do it. Clearly today we will; moreover, as it is now manifest, with a majority and even more enlarged. It is a good sign to the Congress, to the Senate, to the rest of the political formations there, to make it clear that it is not only the majority of the citizens of Catalonia and Spain who want it, but even there are institutions which, with very large majority, also claim it. Therefore, we cannot pass a new legislature without decriminalizing, by the way, assisted suicide and euthanasia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.224.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Mr Vidal Aragonese deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.225.0	First of all, thanksgiving, thanksgiving to Dret's association with Morir Dignament Catalunya. If we go back to being here in Parliament today, this is about the good work they're doing. And they do it, in two ways: they transmit plans with logical and concrete constructions, and something that may be even more important, convey it with an absolute conviction that what is being done is right, and that is often difficult to do. Today we want to bring back to the Spanish courts the decriminalization of both euthanasia and aid to suicide. For us, this is to stop chasing anyone who goes with worthy death. Mirin, capitalism far from its history has never been able to guarantee a dignified life either; indeed, at the moment, in this country, it is not even able to guarantee a life worthy of a material point of view. But what seems to me to be absolutely unbearable is that criminal legality turns dignified death into a crime; it's not only not a guarantee of dignified life, it's not a guarantee of dignified death. And when we talk about death worthy of what we're talking about, it's not death, it's life, it's life worthy of life. Do not let anyone decide that he wants to die or when he wants to die that he is accompanied is a construction of unworthy life. And do not allow anyone who does not want to continue living, who has a physical or psychic patience and an inability to return to a life in which he does not have this patience, who cannot have this reality of a support of a third is not to guarantee worthy life. The normal change that is planted is very simple; it is, for a band, that has hard illness or incurable pathology, and that has physical or psychic patience, that can express, in a free way, in an unequivocal way, the request for support of a third party. That's what we're up to. Keeping this penalized is not guaranteeing a decent life, it's criminalizing who it's accompanying, and a criminalizing message is also carried out to the same extent as giving support; it's planted as if it was an easy exercise for the third person. Many times it can be an act of love, many times it can be an act of liberation, but undoubtedly it also means a whole series of contradictions for the person who does it, and therefore we must have legislation that does not only not criminalize it, but facilitates its exercise. Science tells us today that death is inevitable, it is what science tells us, but also today science tells us another thing, that it is that the journey to death can be without pain. And, therefore, let us make it easier for this to be legally possible. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.226.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr. Daniel Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.227.0	Thank you, President. Members of this House is returning to a debate that we had not long ago and which we are now reiterating, and it is to urge the Congress of Deputies to initiate legislative procedures to decriminalize euthanasia and help suicide. And the defense of our position will be done with all due respect to all those political parties, entities and people who defend the opposite, but we, however wind blows against it, will not support this motion for a resolution. This is a polyhedral debate, which undoubtedly has several approaches. First, the approach of the people who are in the final stage of life is under unbearable suffering. Meriting all our respect and consideration, and being aware that there are very clear extreme cases, then there is a great nebula where it is more questionable that we are faced with terminal situations and where we would actually have to work to achieve an improvement in palliative care to reduce or eliminate that suffering. And if you doubt it generates the concept of euthanasia, the more it causes us the concept of helping suicide. It helps suicide. In what situations? Who decides? Because these hard-to-answer questions only increase our doubts. Another necessary approach must necessarily be the doctor, whose professionals can determine in extreme cases when life ends, as a result, for example, of a fatal illness. But can a doctor or expert group, from an ethical or moral point of view, decide who can die because they do not have a decent life? The ultimate goal of medicine and its professionals is not to program death, it is life, that we can live more and better, find remedies for diseases today without cure or that help to alleviate suffering and pain on many occasions from serious pathologies, but always promote life at the center of its activity. A third approach that needs to be taken into account is that of society in general. At times, those who defend euthanasia refer to that it is legal in modern, advanced societies, which must offer the necessary tools for individuals to exercise their supposed right to euthanasia. Frankly, we do not understand or understand what is modern and advanced in it. I think more modern, more advanced, working so that all people can have decent living conditions, but dignified death? What's with dignity, death? And to say that situations also occur of unworthy life..., but when can we affirm that a person lives an unworthy life? It would not be better, I insist, to reverse efforts to improve the conditions worthy of life, that we work to find a way out of depression. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , pain, suffering. And this is where the last approach comes in, that of all of us, that of parliamentarians, here and of the Congress of Deputies. I can understand that someone...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.228.0	Mr. Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.229.0	... in the face of a limit of pain and suffering wants to put an end to them, but the legislators, here and in Congress, we cannot surrender; our obligation is to legislate to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.230.0	Congressman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.231.0	...to preserve the most important legal good on which our parliamentary activity hinges, which is the legal good of life. We believe more dignified, more human and more advanced focus the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.232.0	Congressman!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.233.0	... efforts and resources to preserve life, to improve life and where it is not possible... [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone to the deputy and he continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.234.0	Congressman, time's up. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's been a long time, and I've been kind, and despite that, it's still going on, but in any case... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The next spokesman is Ms Gemma Espigares, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.235.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, Members, Members, how it has been discussed extensively on the part of decriminalization and, in fact, the Members who have preceded me have spoken about some of the media cases that we have on the table, I will focus on the part of the Criminal Code, the part that we are today, which is to bring this procedure again to decriminalize it. And, as Vidal said, in the end, what we are talking about is the penalty imposed by the Penal Code and how there are people who, to induce or to cooperate in this assisted suicide with people who cannot end their lives with dignity, end up with pens or threats of imprisonment. Therefore, we repress the freedom of people one more time. And, as Jordi Cuixart said yesterday, and as Dret's partner in Dying Dignity and any of the people who have hardly had to find themselves with this transaction have said, we will do it again and we will do it again as often as possible. And because these people don't have to do it again, what we have to do is do our job and, therefore, do this regulation or do this decriminalization. And I told them that I didn't get the share of the media cases, because it was mentioned, but I asked the professionals directly. There is broad consensus among health professionals that this advance, not only in those who work at the PADES and with the end of life, but also in all those who help to bring people to life, or with the teacher who forms the people, or with the journalists, to whom we also want to ask that this not happen only when there are media cases, but also when they speak, but also because of the great task that DMD associates, which, moreover, today accompany us, like every time here in Parliament we have some sort of..., the untiring work that they do, with motion, together with parliaments, organizing debates, but above all accompanying us, like every time here in Parliament we have some sort of thing..., the tireless work that they do, with motion, with debate, but also with parliament, organizing discussions, but especially with people and families who are better at this stage than the scientific group. And, in fact, when the 2017 proposal came back, he saw that the spokespersons who signed it then, Marta Rovira and Anna Gabriel, now exiled to Switzerland – they signed it at that time and now they are in Switzerland – where in 2001 they already came to the conclusion that the need to decriminalize this, so they give us this advance once more in which Catalonia would have to carry the front and not go to trailer, so that Spain would once more stretch us along the way. And it's Switzerland, it's Holland, it's Belgium, it's Luxembourg, it's Quebec, but it's also Colombia, Canada and some United States countries. And I'm talking about the past, because Congresswoman Llauradó asked the councilwoman a few days ago and said: "The Republican Left twenty-five years ago brought a proposal to Congress so that it could already decriminalize euthanasia. Obviously, twenty-five years ago the Spanish right rant fell on us, but it is that year 98 – and it was recovering the diary of sessions of the then – also Republican Left and Initiative for Catalonia - The Greens brought a proposal here to Parliament, and again the Catalan right dropped this: 15 votes against, 11 in favour. But it's been evolving. And now we are – and this is the good news – in this 80_per_cent consensus; 80_per_cent of the population think we should decriminalize and regulate the end of life. And, therefore, after an infinite number of proposals, after more than thirty-five years of association struggles, after a report by the Bioethics Committee that also endorses it, we come to this conclusion that decriminalization and palliative care are two different and perfectly compatible things. So, today, speaking of decriminalization, but also speaking of this regulation – that Councillor Vergés, once again, urged us that Parliament should not let go of this but that we have already begun to work on it – today, we have this valid vote, this vote of political courage, in order to remain clandestine, because this broad consensus of 80_per_cent allows us to advance; to recognize the work that they have done so far; because there is a strong scientific research that also supports it, and international referents, but above all for the dignity and freedom of people. And that's why we're going to repeat this process today, and we're hoping that it won't happen again, that we won't give the cup back to the table very well, good work, but this proposal... that doesn't force, and that's what would make it clear to the four deputies of the PP, that doesn't force, but what it does... – and I finish, president – what it does is decriminalize and, therefore, respect everyone when they make their decision; that they have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.236.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.237.0	... – I finish – this demand and this political courage that we need today. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.238.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Deputy Josep Maria Forné.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.239.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. We are on a subject of ethical and political and social importance, not only because it is a subject which in some way asks all societies, that of euthanasia, but because, moreover, it is a question which has ethical and moral ramifications which have been discussed and which are discussed equally. We are trying to bring a proposal of law to the Congress, which had already been in the previous legislature, and which, therefore, the one that is claimed..., fell, because it did not, say, be able to be processed; what it is about is to bring it back to the Congress just as it was at that time. We are pleased that, at this time, in this case, I received the vote, even though there has not been in the proposal, from Ciutadans, and we thank the deputy Martin, therefore, all the facilities, in the meetings that there have been, in order to be able, say, to find consensus. It is a proposition that what you are looking for – it is a single point – is to decriminalize euthanasia in some concrete cases – to remember that they are concrete cases – and later this decriminalization allows the consequent regulation. These concrete ones are: when there is a terminal illness in the terminal phase, diagnosed; when there is an irreversible disease that is more diagnosed as such and that involves a psychic or physical suffering recognized and thus done, and that, moreover, this euthanasia is still practiced or is being applied with a regulation. Therefore, the work will come later, with the subsequent regulation. It is not a question, as Mrs Gemma Espigares rightly said, of forcing anyone; here the creeds of every school must be fully respected, and to whom somehow they believe that it is not possible or impossible to apply euthanasia, it will not apply, but that it gives the possibility to those people who want to exercise this right, so that they can exercise this right. I left before I congratulated the work, too, of the DMD partnership in all this work. Therefore, we are not obliged to anyone; we are recognizing rights, we are giving opportunities for freedom, exercise of the freedom of people, at these crucial moments or at these critical moments – more than crucial, forgiveness, criticisms – of a person's life course, when you decide to resign. Yes, but, therefore, we will give support; we are proposers and are, say, in favor of bringing this proposal to Congress. To say that in our group there will be freedom of vote for questions of conscience, who believes it, say so, so he can express it. But before the intervention ended and, therefore, to give support to this initiative, a couple of reflections do seem important to me, and one is to disassociate the patience absolutely as a motive for which it is not worth living. It's true that joy feeds life, and it's true, too, the same way that joy feeds life, that life carries and involves patience. To think that there is no patience in life is to think of an illusory life and a childhood life, eh? And we should not contribute in any way to further infuriating our society, which gives us how childish it is. Thinking there's no patience in life and living without patience would be a tough mistake, huh? Fracàs, dol, are situations that accompany us all to life. Now, it's true that there are sufferings that can lead to certain circumstances that one person says that that life no longer wants to live, and then it's when they're recognized, but thinking that the suffering itself doesn't. And it's not just a question – it's not just a question – of so many percent, it's not a question of majorities, it's not a question that doesn't..., it's a question – Congressman Vidal Aragones also pointed out – of justice, it's a question of recognition of people's rights. And here is not a question of the majority that ends up giving right; if you have, this right, we have. And so somehow what we're doing is giving this recognition. Therefore, our support, logically, as proposers of this proposition of law, giving, say, freedom of conscience, because we recognize that it is a problem that has been linked to different options of consciousness, and to more with matter. And the important debate will be in the regulation that opens up decriminalization, that we hope it will succeed with this proposal of law in the instancy that must be, that it is Congress, that it is the one that has the exclusive in order to be able to modify at this moment the Penal Code. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.240.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. [[Pause.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution, for which it reiterates the presentation to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies of the Law on the Reform of the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November, of the Criminal Code, on the decriminalization of euthanasia and the aid to suicide. Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution was adopted by 124 votes to 4, with 1 abstention. Yes, Mr. Swordler, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.241.0	On the count of the votes it will have been appreciated that I voted differently from my group, I would like to make, on the basis of Rule 103.3 of the Rules of Procedure, a brief explanation of vote...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.242.0	Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.243.0	...the feeling of the same. Without any intention of reopening a debate which has been substantiated and which had been substantiated in the previous legislature, from Unites per Avançar, a group to which I represent from the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Unites per Avançar, we believe that after the petition for euthanasia many times – and without a willingness to give lessons to anyone – there is certainly, as has been said, a demand for dignity. And we also believe that somehow there is an appreciation, an expression of the need for patience – it was also said –; of one for, in the end, pain; of one for therapeutic fleshing, of which we are radically opposed, and of one for many times also to loneliness. And, on the other hand, we do see – and we do not see it as an alternative, as in some interventions we have seen – that when there is an offer of palliative care – so we are told by experts like Dr. Gómez Batiste-Alentorn, who is an expert at the planetary level, mandated by the WHO, in relation to palliative care – therefore, the demand for low euthanasia. And we also found in this debate, without coming out of today's debate itself, that the teams of the PADES have gone astray. Therefore, our proposal is to offer this possibility of palliative care in line with what the hope and letter of our State says. And I remember perfectly – I was present in that State debate – that we started from an article that talked about everyone having a right to dignified death, and that we all agreed to say..., in an article that says – there is a group, certainly, Initiative at that time, opposed it – that everyone has a right to live with dignity the process of death. For us..., and the UPC was wondering a moment ago that pain must be eliminated and that dignity must be given to the process of death, and that we agree with, and palliative cures are a way of giving dignity to the process of death. And this is the reason why, in the name of Forward Units and from an aspect that I do not deny, therefore, of conscience, I have made a different vote from my group, contrary to the decriminalization of euthanasia and the decriminalization of assisted suicide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.244.0	All right, thank you, Congressman. [[Accumulated Designation Procedures]] [[284-00023/11, 284-00031/11, 284-00002/12 and 284-00005/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the sixth item, which has been raised by different parliamentary groups that can jointly substantiate the sixth item, the sixth item, the eighth and the new item on the agenda, all referring to different designations for different bodies, for which their members will be appointed by this plenary. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] Therefore, in this motion, what we would do is to make a joint reading of the different proposals on the part of the parliamentary groups and, as I say, we would make a single final vote, if there is no inconvenience on the part of the parliamentary groups, of the set of nominations. Therefore, ask Secretary Campdepadrós to read out the proposals made by the different parliamentary groups. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.245.0	All right, President. Point number 6 is: procedure for choosing seven members of the Commission for the Control of Non-Referendary Popular Consultations. The proposals of candidates are: for the Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomera, the Lady Gala Pin Ferrando; for the Group Republicà, the Lord Xavier Godàs and Pérez; for the Socialists and Units for Advance, the Lord Miquel Pérez-Moneo Agapito; for the Group of Junts for Catalonia, the Lord Josep Pagès Massó; for the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the Lord Pablo Nuevo López, and, for the Group of Ciutadans, the Lord Elia Marzal Yetano. At point 7, which is the procedure for appointing seven members of the Committee of Experts on Climate Change, the proposals for candidates are: from the Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomera, Mr. Frederic Ximeno and Roca; for the Group Republicà, Mrs. Sarai Sarroca Cervelló; from the Socialist Group and Units for Avançar, Ms. Bàrbara Pons Giner; from the Group of Junts for Catalonia, Ms. Marta Torres Gunfaus; for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, Mr. Salvador Lladó Fernández, and, of the Ciutadans Group, Ms. Montserrat Termes Rife. Point number 8: procedure to choose six vocals from the Advisory Council of the Institute of Agricultural Research and Technology. The candidates' proposals are: for the Grup Catalunya in Comú Pomera, the Ms. Montserrat Escutia and Acedo; for the Grup Republicanà, the Mrs. Elisabeth Cañigueral Borràs; for the Socialists and Units for Progress, the Mr. Joan Gené and Albesa; for the Junts per Catalunya, the Ms. Concepción Cervós and Costansa; and for the Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Crida Constituent, the Ms. Eva Carreras Salvado, and, for the Ciutadans Group, the Mr. Vicente Sanchis Almenar. And lastly, point 9, which is the procedure for electing six members of the Democratic Memorial Board of Governors. The proposals of candidates are: of the Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mr. Ramon Arnabat Mata ; of the Group Junts per Catalunya, Mrs. Aurora Madaula and Giménez ; of the Group of Ciutadans, Mr. Jordi Canal Morell ; of the Group Republicà, Ms. Marta Rovira and Martínez ; of the Socialists and Units per Avançar, Ms. María Algeria Queralt Jiménez, and of the Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, Ms. María Eva Fernández Lamelas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.246.0	Thank you, secretaries. Do I ask the chamber if I can approve this proposal with your consent? [[Pause.]] Yeah? In any case, I find that there are more than a hundred Members, the ones that are needed to make the majority of three_five parts that, in the case of the Commission for the Control of Popular Consultations not Referendaries, are necessary to make the agreement and, in the case of the climate change, also. Anyway, I'm insisting, can you do it by consent? [[Pause.]] The proposals relating to items 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the agenda, as read by the secretary of the Bureau, are therefore approved. [[Asking the Government about universities]] [[300-00140/12]] Let's move on to the next point of the order of the day, which is the point of desire, which is the question to the government. Before, however, I make them come up with an alteration of the order of the day, formulated the petition for the Government, according to rule 83.3 of the Rules of Procedure. The proposals that the Government's inquiry into industry and investment, which appears as item 15 of the order of the day, may be substantial after item 12, which is the Government's inquiry into inclusive school, and the question of item 13, on the maintenance of road infrastructure, may be substantial tomorrow. Thus, according to the request made by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, I propose another alteration of the agenda, in such a way that point 18, relating to the question to the Government about its political direction, can be substantial after the question that appears as point 16. Therefore, in the late days, we will substantiate the questions corresponding to points 10, 11, 12, 15 and 14, for this order, and in the late morning we will substantiate points 13, 16, 18 and 17, also for this order. Is there any inconvenience on the part of the parliamentary groups? Can this change in the order of the day be approved? [[Pause.]] All right. So we follow, as predicted, with the first question to the government, which is about universities, and the formulation of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy lady Alicia Romero. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.247.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, councillors, councillors, deputies and deputies. A few days ago – I am not saying anything new – rectors and rectors of the different Catalan public universities have raised the warning voice of the situation, of the difficult financial situation facing and suffering the universities of our country. It is a voice, a cry, from the responsibility and wisdom of those who, since the year 2012, have rigorously managed the universities, despite the detail that has been painted in the past, especially since this year 2012, that have experienced these cumulative detailes around 20_per_cent. 2012 was in the middle of a crisis, the government of the moment decided, therefore, that it had to detail the funding of the universities and in order to try to deal with this thought that pushing the taxes a 66_per_cent could solve that reduction of the financing. He explained, moreover, in meetings with rectors, that it was a short-term proposal, and what we say is that, if it was a short-term one and the situation changed..., and I am not saying it, today President Torra said, that it is true that the economic situation has improved; as well as Vice President Aragones said, it is said the other day to the Circle of Economy, that is to say, that the situation is better, that the BBVA studies tell us that in the next two years the GDP will grow more than in the rest of the State, so if there are some indicators of better and the crisis situation has broken down, then we believe that this too should bring us to change some of the agreements that have been made in that year. And I'm saying that because the spread was so drastic that we went from around 1,000 to 700 euros, that's, a spread of almost 30 percent in the year 2012. Then there were a few better ones, some increases, but the truth is that at that time it was a very hard one. And while Catalonia was passing this, in times of crisis, therefore, there were other countries in which we very much like to emmirate ourselves, such as the United Kingdom or Germany or Portugal, which we have here on the side, where what they are doing is just the opposite of us, was to increase investment in knowledge, increase funding to universities, to research... Why probably in a few moments of crisis is it necessary to strengthen those structural elements that allow us or should allow us to emerge from the crisis with stronger and more robust, right? But it seems that here, therefore, we did not choose this option, and we had a very important detail, that already accumulates seven years in this line and that is obviously doing that the universities are patenting, are patenting valiantly. It is hard for us to understand how 2019 is still in this situation, because, as I said, the situation that is explained at that time has changed; but it is that, moreover, when a reflection on which country we want, I cannot imagine a country that does not want to bet on knowledge, that does not want to put knowledge at the center of the economy, that does not want to have a country of added value based on its knowledge because there has been social and economic progress, I cannot imagine it. And so, as I can't imagine, I can't hear how, after seven years, the government hasn't made a change in that... in that tough decision it made, at the end of the day. Evidently this cry of the rectors is: "There's not enough, it can't be, they can't go on like this. And, therefore, I believe that this voice of the Rectors, that obviously they cannot come to this House, we wanted to carry it to see, so, if the Government intends to make a change in this feeling, right? To put some exemplifying data, because it's true that when it comes to university funding, some, then, don't know how to compare it, do they? Some data, very clear, to ask: Euros per student/year. So, miri, the University of Barcelona dedicates 7,000_euros to it student/year; the University of Amsterdam, 25,000; the Technological Institute of Zurich, 55,000, and the University of Cambridge, 77,000; it is to say, that we are so downstream, is that we are at such a low level for what it does to public finance per student/year that actually a plantaja as we can compete here. We have actually competed and are still competing, because we have the University of Barcelona in Shanghai for over a hundred..., or within the hundred-fifty best universities, but one is as if they did, because I really think we should talk about the miracle of universities, because, with the little funding they have, with what they are patenting, not only for the resources, but also for the bureaucratic difficulties we have, that I think in Catalonia we could modify them to improve them – obviously the state law would help us a lot, if it is modified, but here we also have the possibility to change some things – so I think that we should also work. We believe that it is a government of truth that is committed to the university and that prioritizes resources for the university. It's true that we haven't had assumptions in two years, and that, so, it's not a very fruitful scene, is it? In order to be able to put resources on the table for the university, it is certain that there can be changes in assumptions, which, in fact, Mr. Aragones has already done, has gone through some departments to devote some resources to priorities that I suppose the government decides, and for the moment we do not know that universities are one of the priorities. We think it should be. Miri, the year 2006, to set them an example and not to be told that this cannot be done..., the year 2006 the Maragall government decided, therefore, that it was a plan to improve public universities for which it did its financing, and they agreed a financing plan 2007-2010, in which the funding of universities since the year 2003 was increased by 50_per_cent. It passed to these 1,000_millions and it really was an important increase. It wasn't just a financing plan, but it was a plan of improvement, and it was, therefore, a plan of teaching, of research; or so, there were many elements connected to this increase in funding. And then there was a plan of university investments that was never again known, either, of this..., of the PIU, which is said to be PIU, which also involved, from 2007 to 2013, more than 650_millions for university infrastructure, and since 2010 never again knew. And there are no resources at these times to make these investments. The other day, there were some labs that had working machines thirty years, eighty years old, and they couldn't change them, because there were no resources, and that whatever they did... well, she said it, didn't she? And he said that what they had to do was try to fix them as they could, with their investigators, because there were no resources to change them. That can't be; that's to say, we should be top priority. With a supposition of €35,000_million, it's hard for me to think that we can't make the effort to put in 100_million more euros for three years, which is what the rectors asked a few years ago, to try to cheer us up and put us down to 2010, huh? , that it was 1,000_million euros; I am at 2019, almost 2020. So, we're not asking to pose at 2,000_million, which is probably the ideal; we're asking to pose at 2010 levels. We were very slow to recover those details, that reduction so drastic that it was made to the university. And what we want is an agreement of this kind; an agreement that put funding to universities at three or five years, with a clear square of "these resources by 2020, these by 2021, by 2022..., with elements, obviously, that must be marked to the universities of where this is better. Why do we know what the university's problems are: the aging of plants, the precariousness, the instability of our IDPs, the difficulties in contracting different profiles of PAS, much more strategic... The universities at these times are making projects of many types; they probably no longer need only administrations that make PAS, but we need other profiles, much more strategic, right? Well, they're having a lot of trouble and we think it's time already... not to say it was years ago, right? But, well, it's true that they've raised the voice now, and we believe, therefore, that it's time to take care of their petitions and get us to work. I know, Counselor, that you will tell me that this is the Knowledge Pact, but, look, I have to say no. I agree with the Knowledge Pact; I believe that there are many agents and people in these places, but in any case it is the same; it is a pact that has tried to be enlarged because it is possible to reflect on what is the future of university and research in our country, and I think it is right to reflect in this sense. But what we believe is that for funding, which is urgent and which calls on the cell, it is necessary to make an agreement with the Catalan universities, as it was in 2006, and to sign black on white as we put it in 2020, as in 2021, as in 2022, to try to allude to this fact that universities are patenting and that at these times we believe that it is totally excessive. Because more of the universities, and you know it, and so he explained a report that was made by the ACPA a few months ago..., that's all the university brings; more of the formation, therefore, to bring a determined economic model, which must obviously be based on knowledge, to bring and help social progress, also to pass on freedoms and criteria linked to democracy. I mean, college is a lot of things, in society it plays a very decisive role too, or it has to play it, and I think that's also an element that we've talked about many times. But, in addition, as the CAPU said, universities contribute to the Catalan economy with a 1.4_percent of GDP, it is a lot more important; they generate 45,000 full-time jobs; for every euro we bring back to the university we return four; it is that the university, more than that, generates knowledge and transfers it to the economy because it is more competitive and because it can make social gains, so it is also generating jobs. And, therefore, we believe that it is important for the Government to see that this cry, that this voice of the rectors must have a response beyond the Knowledge Pact. And that's why, Counselor, we're asking you this question today.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.248.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word "Constellera d'Empresa i Coneixement", Ms. Maria Àngels Chacón, is written. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.249.0	Thank you, President. Member, we agree; we agree on the need for this funding. Perhaps, I have said this many times, we do not agree with the raons of detail, with other political groups, it is clear that we are not there, but we agree that this extraordinary financing is necessary. We do not compare ourselves to other countries, because I would also like to have the financing that some of them have..., the assumption that some of these countries have to which you refer. It is true, the year 2009..., from the year 2009 to the year 2012 we went from 922_millions– these almost 1,000 are 922_millions–, and the year 2012 had to be readjusted for the management of the existing debt to the Generalitat and only 691_millions of transfer to universities had to be donated. Therefore, a decrease of 231_million euros to universities. There was..., this funding deficit was passed on to the university priests, and it was over, in the year 2009, 185_million euros, in the year 2012, 255_million euros. Therefore, yes, there are 161 million euros of infra-financing compared to the year 2009, and it is also certain that there is a compromise, with a resolution from here, from the Parliament of Catalonia, of reducing university fees by 30_per_cent. That's right, we agree. It is also true, I mean, by comparison, that Catalonia has decreased, it has decreased funding to universities, but other autonomous communities. We reduced it in a 7_per_cent; Andalusia, in a 9_per_cent; Madrid, in a 14_per_cent; also cut back that there was state funding of parties for funding to universities from state funding. But it's true, we have this deficiency, we recognize it. What are we proposing? And the other day, I said, to rule is to manage the existing resources, not the ones we want to have. We have proposed in the assumptions of this 2019... – the setting we have made of these assumptions that already collect these different sensitivities–, we have proposed an increment of 72_million euros in the parties dedicated to the Department of Universities, in which 42_millions are due to increases in remuneration, 15_millions to the reduction of prices and allowances– here there may be differences, depending on the parliamentary groups, if we apply a linear reduction to all prices or to the faith in those three, four and five sections, which we understand were of lower returns, lower returns–, and after we also intended, we wanted to allocate, 15_million euros to the base. We also understand that the financing of structures, not only of staff, and of student fees and prices, but also structural investments in university, buildings, equipment. But unfortunately, and I have to accept it, there are no presuppositions at the moment and what he has worked on..., this government is working on is: although there are no presuppositions, in this name's contingency plan, what presuppositional part do we have to infer yes or yes? Should we add €42 million in salary increases to the staff? – remunerated increments that obviously we are also bound by the law and that we do or do have to face. Therefore, little margin at the time to apply increases. And here it is true, and we are working with Vice President Aragones..., we also understand that this is an emergence, this is also a social counseling, and I have been complaining about it and I have also said it because I believe that it is part of the knowledge of this country, it is one of the most social things we have, and in this sense we are working, as I say, with Vice President Aragones to look at, apart from this gainful increase, therefore, to get some of the better things that we have to deal with. And speaking of the National Covenant for the Society of Knowledge, what we're facing right now is, it's like compensating for a presuppositionary restriction, yes, but you have a lot to see... And now I'll explain why the pact is so important. We can go through increments, we can go through fragments later every year at the time of talking about research funding, university funding, but we can go through the whole of it, and that's why the tables are so wide: we are going to discuss with the different agents seven points; the seven points of the pact are: mission and vision of the knowledge system; human resources, policies linked to contract, hiring of the teaching staff and investigator, of the staff in search, etc.; what is the assumption that our knowledge system needs, not what we can do, what it needs, because from here it will be, therefore, the requirement in each of the assumptions; also the search system; how we carry out the transfer between research, innovation and enterprise; who, from here, will be the command of the faculty and investigator, but the command of the research system; and how our knowledge system needs, not what we can do, what we need, because it will be, from here, the command of the equipment, but the control of the research system; how we operate the transfer between research, the research, the innovation, the organization, the organization, the organization, the organization, the organization, the organization, the organization, the organization, the organization, the organization, the organization, the organization. At the end of this pact, we want to have – and we want to have it before the end of the year – agreed with all the agents – so, I repeat, the breadth of these tables – what is the system, what is the presuppositional endowment that this system that we want between all and who are the actions that we will ultimately have in a consensual way. I already know that this is a wish, that I do not solve these problems from day to day, that I already know, therefore, that they obey presuppositionary questions that we must accept: now we do not have these presuppositions. Therefore, there is the will, the department knows it, but we have these presuppositionary restrictions that we now have. And at the same time, I say, we can go in for money and money, but apart from that, which we obviously need to go in for, which we need to invest, we need to determine all this system that we are considering: how does the university world relate to the business world, to the world of research and innovation. This morning, when he was talking about research policies and actions, we did, therefore, a whole relationship of open calls, of presuppositional endowments for researchers as well. But obviously, in the university sphere, here I must accept that we are not in the situation that we would like, but in what we have, and the presuppositionary restrictions entail this.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.250.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the answer, it's the congresswoman's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.251.0	Thank you, Counselor. I've already told him before that I wouldn't use the Knowledge Pact, because we'll finish it at the end of the year, I don't know what's going to happen in this Parliament and this country before the end of the year, and the problems at the university will probably continue to feel the same or get worse. That's why the rectors' cry, isn't it? Miri, October 2016 we approved a motion; here we forget a lot of things, but perhaps Mr. Castellà remembers, because I almost agreed with him as the spokesman responsible for the Group of Together for the Yes. In that motion we approved – apart from reducing university fees, which we have not achieved – a new funding plan for public universities for the period 2017-2021 and a whole set of criteria, right? , and approve a new investment plan for the period 2017-2021. Of this, nothing – nothing. Some conversations at the end of the year 2017... Because what we asked for in this young man, which is what I'm going to ask again in this, is that, more than putting in more resources, we need to put in our criteria. I need a new funding model. It is not worth paying for more credits, because in the end this is a perverse system: everyone does more credits, create us degrees to have more resources. No, no, We need to establish a basic funding for universities and then establish qualitative criteria that allow us to compete here, in search, in transfer... But what cannot be this perversion, which, as more students and more believed, more resources. That can't be. And, in fact, it looks like he started talking about this new funding model, but, well, the elections came and that ended. That didn't work out. But, of course, I feel a certain frustration, because, moreover, this young man I remember working with the Rectors, and therefore they took the guarantee to say: "Home, it is that, look, we will approve a new financing plan and a new investment plan. And that didn't happen. And we're talking about the Knowledge Pact. I think there are two different things: one is the Knowledge Pact, which has its rhythm, calm, rested, of reflection, with many agents that relate to knowledge in our country, and the other is the urgency, already, of putting resources to universities. You tell me about the presupposition of 2019. It doesn't exist for me, because the government hasn't approved it, it hasn't entered Parliament. Listen to me, it's that, I don't know, when we have it, we'll talk about it. If you say: « We ask... or « the government has committed to it with 70_million, so in contingency plans I want to see them. And I want to see them, black on white, with an agreement with the rectors. That's what we need and that's what we ask. We ask the government to prioritize, we ask Mr Aragonès that, when they pass the whole list of priorities, the universities keep it in the places they are looking for, because it is key for the country, for the future of the country. That after we want to be a modern, cosmopolitan, forward country... so I don't know how, because, of course, in the end, knowledge is basic. And I know and I'm convinced... and I know because here I see some Members, the band of those who support the government, and you, too, counsel, who agree with this speech that I'm making, and I'm sure they'd give me support. That's why I hope the young lady can approve the plethora she sees. But, please, counsel, on contingency grounds we have to put 70, 80, or 100 million at universities, because, if not, we'll have a problem, and it's hard. Some are already starting to close with difficulty, and you know that we are asking for restrictions at universities; but until when? It's that the situation is very delicate. Then, in that young man I agreed with Mr Castellà, I remember accepting some ideas that say: "Well, we will approve this plan according to the presuppositional availabilities associated with the degree of progressivity of Catalonia's tax receipts. I've looked at myself... Miri, 2015, we rebre – financing model – 18,800_million euros; 2017, 21,500. In direct taxes, we go back to 2016 19_million euros; 2018, 22,7. Listen, what we're saying is, "Home, we don't make a funding plan for universities or an investment plan if, listen, the assumptions are the same, the entries are the same. So they're not – they're not! I've been working on the website of the Economics Department, obviously; they're not. In these years, it's true, it's improved the economy, we have more tax receipts for the likes and for the given, but more we have more tax receipts for the financing model. Some of these more tickets have to go to college, yes or yes. It's just that this can't wait any longer. And, therefore, what we do is press the councillor – I know that in this sense, therefore, it is quite aligned–, its team, but above all the government – above all the government. I know it's hard, because there's no Mr. Aragones here, but I'd have to listen to him, because universities have more resources. He did his game when he was ruling in the tripartite; so I need to do it at these times. What we demand is a pact, a platform for universities, which in three years we can ask for resources. Three hundred and millions, 250...? So you will already decide with the university community, with the rectors of public universities. But it's urgent. And here are not only resources: it is to see if we improve management, what criteria we have, of quality, of quantity... But it is urgent. I think this can't wait any longer. The cry was discreet, because they're responsible, the rectors, because we're in the pre-registration era and so they have to be cautious with this. But that can't wait any longer, and I don't think he'll wait any longer. I, therefore, call for a strong response from the Government ; strong from the Government, not just from the Councillor [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out]] That today I can say yes, that he agrees with us, and that what we ask of him is, to the government, power.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.252.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.253.0	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.254.0	Thank you. It's the Councilwoman's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.255.0	Thank you, President; thank you, Member. With regard to the 2017 motion, I believe that 2017 has passed so many things that, if we begin to list why this motion, therefore, did not end up executing, we would return another time to this intervention of 155, which undermined many things; among others, these, among others, could not develop normal parliamentary activity. Miri, the subject is presumptive. We're working, I said, on the contingency plan. And I also told him... By the way, with the rectors, with the students, with the entire community linked to knowledge, I gathered here this time at the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia. We were able to argue with the students, with all the rectors, obviously, these questions. And you're right, huh? You're afraid we've been dealing, exposing them now, as you say, sometimes, but they're complaints that have come long ago. You know, we're politically willing. We are managing, as I said, with the Vice-President's Department for such a way that, apart from the increase in remuneration, we have additional presuppositional endowment to deal with these two concepts that we have said: investment in university equipment, and also reduction of taxes. They're not done, these conversations; we're working on it. The compromise, both from the department and from the government, is to captivate this situation. Therefore, the pressure of the Rectors, the political pressure, so I believe that it will soon have a satisfactory answer in this sense and be able to announce some kind of increment – not what we would like. We could also tell them why they did not approve or help to approve the assumptions, which contemplated all these increments. Respect the model system, model change, oh and so much! , which is the National Covenant for the Society of Knowledge, and as long as it is! We are determining which research, what type of contract is prioritizing, how the research staff will interact with the university staff, with the firm staff, where we find funding, this funding source that will warm us up... And as long as the pact is all that. That's what we're looking at, what we're financing, how and why. And that's why we make the pact. If not, we'll find ourselves back a year in doubt, so what a lot of money on what concepts. We're talking about model transformation, and that's a parallel activity that we have to do, as you said, this more immediate, which is to assign funds to make up for this gap we have. Therefore, my answer, in summary: we are working, and very soon I hope to have positive news in this sense of the increased presupposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.256.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the situation of public universities]] [[300-00142/12]] Let's move on to the next question, which is about the situation of public universities. Presented for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, to expose it has the word of the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.257.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Counselor, thank you very much for being here. I will ask you about the state of universities in our country, which you have to see with three recent news that we have seen these weeks in Catalonia. The first: all the Rectors and Rectors of the public universities of Catalonia have signed a joint manifesto demanding a new model of financing and the balance of detail, which lasts since 2011. The second: thirty-one students charged for student mobilizations of the past two years to demand the 30_per_cent tax reduction approved in this Parliament. And the third one, two weeks ago: a day off from the teaching staff and an investigator to denounce job insecurity. I think it's three news reports that mark, in three different dimensions, the failure of our university model. And this failure has a very concrete origin, the presuppositions of 2011, which basically assumed two things, which was also commented by Alicia's companion before: some detail universities of the presupposition of public universities of a 20_per_cent and an increase in taxes of 67_per_cent. But this is the origin of the crisis that we are living today in our university system, not the cause. The main cause is that since then, since 2011, there has been a policy of continuous abandonment of our public universities. The problem is not that it's been eight years, 2011, it's detailed what's been detailed and the taxes that's been pushed. The problem is that you included those who defended that there was a short-term measure, the result of the economic crisis, you kept these politics long in time, which presupposes an abandonment without precedent of our public universities. The Generalitat dedicated – and here there is a ball of data; we have done so from the Union of Accounts – the 2010 944_millions for public universities. If each year we have updated these assumptions and revalued them to the CPI, today we would be allocating 1,073_million euros, without increasing presuppositions, updating each year periodically the reversal we make in our universities. And today, in change, we have 751_million euros, which means a 30_per_cent cut in a decade, a devaluation of our unprecedented public education. For the first time in our history, public education is not only not in expansion, but it is in retroces, in retroces to all levels: in presuppostary retroces, in expulsion of students and in increment of the labor precariousness of public workers. And what did the government propose to us? At the last meeting of assumptions that we held, you proposed 793_million euros – which I will talk about later – is to say, consolidate some 25_per_cent shortcuts in eight years. This was the government's timid response to the late protests, and that was, by other side, the government's understanding of social assumptions. So the first two questions I want to ask are very concrete. I understand that you negotiate the assumptions with the councillor of Hisenda and with the president of the Generality, and I understand that you must have demanded that university expenditure be prioritized and assigned as presuppositionally as such to the Government. Therefore, the first question: does the priority government consider the financing of university public education, yes or no? And if you don't consider it a priority, as I understand you must have demanded, who blocked it? The councilor of Hisenda or the president of the Generalitat? Because one thing we want to say clearly: the university system in Catalonia has not failed. There is no pedagogical problem, there is no problem in the research model, there is no problem in the structure of our university system. The government has failed the university system, which is very different. And, therefore, I think it's interesting that you give us your parent as a counselor and explain to us the background debate that is going on with your government on university policy. Three more questions. All rectors of public universities have jointly warned of the situation of alert and failure of the university system. Third question: Has the Government already given an answer to the country's public universities? Fourth question: Will the Government rectify its policy of abandoning public universities? And, therefore, the fifth question, which I think is of calibre: if it is compromised today, the government will increase the assumption of public universities for encanny. I told you at the last question we had about public universities: there is no way out of the mig; or we can design expanded assumptions or we will continue to stick to the assumptions of austerity. And here you can pull out all the rhetoric you want, but I think it is already clear that the economic policy of this government, which has continued from what began in 2011, has been a weakness for our public services. Because this 30_percent of public university-accumulated retailing puts in crisis and risk two fundamental elements of our public universities: that they are a pillar for equal opportunities in our country and that they are a project of the future in the generation of knowledge and development. This year, we believe, will have to enable extraordinary financing, but above all it will have to give a deep reflection on the economic policy of this government, which puts public services at risk. And this 30_per_cent of retail is transmitted throughout the structure of the university system. According to news I've highlighted before: thirty-one students charged for student mobilizations to demand that the government complete the mandate of this Parliament and lower the price of university degrees by 30_per_cent. When I was a university student, I was an advisor to this government, Mr. Felipe Puig, and it was a time of protests against retailing and the 67_per_cent tax increase. Twenty-seven students were prosecuted in the case that is known as "The Twenty-Seven and More, to protest the increase in taxes; now we carry thirty-one. More reprisals now than then, at a time of social conflict, I think I am wider than the present, and the worst of all is that the members of the Government, publicly, say that they are right, that it is a shame that the Generality has detailed a 30_per_cent in public universities, that it is a shame that it has transferred part of the weight of these retails on the family scale, with an abusive tax system, that it is a shame that Catalonia is the community that has detailed public finance for students throughout the State and that it is a shame to have lost two thousand university students in eight years and to have lost another year. We believe that it is obvious that it is necessary to rectify the policy of abusive taxes, we believe that it is obvious, that it is an unjust and unsustainable system, and I believe that this happens, first of all, to assume the error and to apologize for having passed on the family scale to the retail. So, in this sense, I wanted to ask him three more questions: what do you think is worth the advice that the Government's only response to the students asking him to complete the mandate of this Parliament has been to activate the repressive path. The seventh question I wanted to ask is whether the government intends to complete the mandate of this Parliament to lower taxes by 30_per_cent for the 2019-2020 course. And lastly, the eighth question that I wanted to ask him respect is whether the government intends to ask the two parties to support him to block the processing of the ILP for the reduction of taxes. The third news I was referring to is the vacancy day of the teaching research staff to denounce the precariousness of the sector's work. Recent approval has been given to the Status of Training Research Personnel – the EPIF – which is practically, well, legally, a suitable collection for the academic researchers of our country. As I said before, 30 per cent of university detail has been transmitted throughout the chain of the university system, about the students, but also about the workers, who have transformed themselves..., has been transformed by the teaching staff researcher of the universities into precarious workers who cover under misery, when they do not directly cover under the outburst of the poor. And I think it would be useful to recognize that if universities, in teaching, in research and in their degree of excellence have maintained the quality they have, during all these years, been grateful to the unjustly valued overexercise of this staff. You, in your proposal for assumptions, accounted for the updating of salaries to universities in 42_millions and in 12_millions the Beatriu de Pinós program to generate six hundred research contracts. I'll ask you the last two questions: Has the government calculated the cost of applying the Staff Staff Statement to training by universities? And if so, will the Generality assume the need to increase the university's assumptions to guarantee the working conditions of its workers? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.258.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, the Counsellor of Enterprise and Knowledge, Mrs. Maria Àngels Chacón. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.259.0	This is the responsibility of having applied this 30_per_cent of presuppositionary reduction in university and other subjects; I'll tell you the same thing I always say, governing is managing resources, not generating debts that we need to manage others afterwards. And, when it comes to detailing or realignment, does he explain to me how fan is, when, between having and dues, there's a difference? He handled it from the deute, huh? , a debt that is not generated by this political force, implies having to reduce assumptions, yes, sir. That's it, that's responsibility, too. Or can we go into debt and, here, the next government that comes, then, will it be found? First point of responsibility: managing finances with a little responsibility. Second point. You're talking about the community here where it's been discussed more. I said this before, in the time of crisis, of crisis surviving, also of assumptions, of management of the debt, on behalf of many administrations, Catalonia has detailed a 7_per_cent, Andalusia a 9_per_cent, Madrid a 14_per_cent... The mitjana, eh? , reduction was a 14_per_cent. And we're also talking about funding, what it looks like... this college funding cut-off. Are we talking about this? We differ between cost, price and final price that ends up paying the student. Mirin, the cost– cost, not the one that ends up paying the student– of the university degrees in Catalonia is much higher than – we can provide all the files that it wants – of other territories of the Spanish State. Why? So why is there... what he does to infrastructure, also to the level of life, is much higher. So, the first one we've ever... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, yes; it's very different. There are very different costs of one university degree here–costs–, than in another population. At this cost, the Government of Catalonia finances 75_per_cent. Yeah, that's the cost. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. Okay. From this 25_per_cent, which is the price, the fee, look, the year 2009, 23_per_cent of students were awarded; the year 2012, 45_per_cent of students are awarded. Therefore, there are very different costs of the price that ends up, effectively, paying the student, we also take this into account, let's say all the figures, let's say all of them. Another point: enrollment in universities. Talk about expulsion. Miri, the year 2009, 32_percent of school-age young people enrolled in university, and the year 2012 is already passing to 39_percent, in that period, and we are increasing. So, every time... the percentage with which we have to calculate the enrolments is the population, okay? Still, we're still catching up with students, because we're increasing the number of students that... demographically, they don't follow the same line. So, this difference... please, let's take into account that students end up paying. It's also, many times, that we have the highest prices in the whole of Spain. So, look, we have the priests... first, they're not all the priests, because the priests aren't the same, the priests who pay the students aren't the same. Yeah, no bufi, that's the truth. What we are going to count, in the end, is what amount each student pays and, in this, as I say, more than 45 percent of students have scholarships. What we have proposed – and here, we have no confluence of criteria – is, if we have a presuppositionary increase, this linear reduction of 30_per_cent, we understand that, instead of doing it linear, because it would also affect students who have very high returns, we would prefer to do it in concrete steps and the rest of the amount apply it with wages. Now, I ask you this: do you agree, instead of a linear reduction, to reduce trams 3, 4 and 5, and this surplus that remains of the import we apply to scholarships for students who cannot even manage the transport or the cost of living? Would you agree to this or would you prefer a linear reduction of 30_per_cent? This is a question that I would like to ask you. On the concrete questions that you asked me, going to the questions. The rectors and rectors, if we've talked to them... before, we find ourselves regularly, it's not like I'm stuck at my desk. In meetings with students, as well as with rectors, rectors, presidents of social councils... we expose and talk about this situation, obviously we talk about it. And we put them in the current too, which is the presuppositional availability import that there is. And we agree, and so we agreed, that we will continue to work with the Vice-President's Department, so that, in this contingency plan and while they have not assumed it... – I would certainly also like to explain what your concrete proposal in terms of assumptions was to not approve our assumptions, the ones we presented to you, of these 72_million increments. From here, however, we will give answers with these concepts that I gave him: investment in physical and equipment structures, teaching staff and, obviously, the whole subject of university taxes. So, with the rectors, with the rectors, we're talking about the finance model and we're talking about this year. And, in the pact – I already know that the pact does not please him, because it sounds abstract mass – if we are deciding what funding will be for the universities, what funding, how it will be determined and how it will gradually be this funding, we are establishing a_mark – I think that this is very important – that, governments that govern here, reds, groceries, liles or greens, there is an untouchable framework in which we all agree at the time of determining the system of financing of higher studies, research and research. He was also talking about this shift of teaching staff and this pay increment, whether we contemplate it or not. You know, right? What's a state law? Yeah? [[Pause.]] You don't see it accompanied by assumptions, do you? It's like, if you now say to him, "Pay the dinner for this evening, huh? , and imputed to him a liability without accompanying him of presuppositional endowment. What we're doing is obviously we have to calculate this import that doesn't exist, from an obligation that you're not accompanied by a transfer of resources – and it should come – and we're looking to manage... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, we should come in, see how we handle it. Is it what they understand that they can accept, therefore, increases in presuppositionary parties in the contemplated? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's fair, it's true, but it's also fair that I should have come along with a presuppositional endowment. Or do we also talk about which parties the Spanish government has that transfers to each of the autonomous communities? We're talking about this, and here, we'll find each other, too, right? I suppose we'll agree here. From here – I answer the same question I gave to the previous Member – we are on the presuppositional side, the resources are who they are. We are managing to change, in this contingency plan, beyond the presupposed resources. Well, I see you have some doubts about this issue of this Remuneration Increment Order. By law, we will complete... We are complementing what is this increase in remuneration for which we are responsible for the cent_per_cent; we are responsible for the cent_per_cent, and we will complete this. We are. This other one that was not foresaw, obviously, we are also working to have resources and to be able to do it in front. It is not a lack of political will, nor to precarise the conditions in which the teaching research staff is working is not our will, but to say the same, to govern means to manage the existing resources, not those we would like, not those we would like in a letter to the King. Then, at the rebuttal, we will continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.260.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer is the return of the deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.261.0	Anyway, Serafín... let's see... I think there's a discussion that's repeated as a mantra from eight years ago, but I'd like to make a splash. When we give them recognition to the weaknesses of their economic policy, we give them recognition to the weaknesses of the presuppositions of public services and tax concessions to the higher parts of the country to contain the debt, because they have not succeeded and say: "We have inherited a debt... Ja. And the government after his own will inherit the highest debt in the history of the Government of Catalonia and will do so, despite the retail policies that have created precariousness and created poor access to public services. And they didn't take responsibility. And what you have to do, precisely, is take responsibility. Austerity policies have not only brought public services together and, for this reason, we are, today, asking about universities, but they have not been able to calm down any of the problems you have proposed: neither the deficit nor the deficit of the Government of Catalonia. And I think the best thing would be to start recognizing him. You say: "The Generality finances 75_percent of the cost of students studying at the university. Already, because it's the legal minimum – it's the legal minimum – and, in fact, it's the legal minimum because you went to the PP to cry because you increased the legal minimum, because it was from the 15th and you loaded this 10_percent difference over the family scale, and you didn't carry it any more because it stopped you from the law, if you didn't, you would do it. And not to see it is not to see a mountain. After God: "Well, it is that the Government of the State approves a convenient collection about the university research staff and approves, among other things, a minimum wage that affects the Generality's expenses. Clearly, it was much easier to keep investigators without a status of workers, collecting misery wages and earning wages under the care of the poor. But I think that a serious administration would have to assume as positive the updating of the salaries of its public workers and the acquiescence of a convenient collection. And the problem with the background is that the responsibility of completing with the Status of the research staff in formation is with the universities, which have to be done with a 30_per_cent set of assumptions, and that some, like the Autonomous University, are already coming to terms with the unions, and the only one that is not making any effort is the Generalitat de Catalunya, which is allowing the universities, with a 30_per_cent set of detailing in the last few years, to negotiate with their workers in agreement without you giving them an extraordinary start, and I think this is one of the foundational complaints that the universities have about the table. Actually, I asked him some questions later that I'd like you to answer. The main one: Is government a priority for public universities? Is it? Are you going into social spending? I think it's good to know if it's advice and spending that this government wants to prioritize. Will there be a tax reduction for the 2019-2020 course? He didn't return it, and I'd love it if you did. And the second I gave him: will he ask the parliamentary groups to give support to the government to block the initiative, the 30_per_cent tax reduction ILP? I think it's a good thing we know that, and that we know that, too, the promoters of the ILP. And the last one that hasn't answered me, and I think it's relevant, too, is if there's going to be an extraordinary game encany, given the emergency situation, as there were in other departments of the Generality – in sanitation, TV3, etc. –..., there's going to be an extraordinary game because the universities can cope with the economic emergency situation that they see and can cope with the compliment of the working conditions of their workers and the teaching research staff? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.262.0	Thank you, Congressman. To make the final reply, it's the councillor's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.263.0	Let's go back to the same, huh? The responsibilities: cadascú, theirs. And let's say it again: managing a debt [[Funnel veils]] , managed a debt... – yes, yes, yes; the numbers, the money do not come from under a table –, managed a debt implies adjusting assumptions. If we hadn't done..., and, by the way, I see that you're not very well aware of how we evolve at the level of compliments, so presumptuous... you were listening, this morning, when we said we got out of the FLA, when the president did the thing that was economic management? I don't think you should be comfortable with the case. It's that it's very uncomfortable to actually manage this debt when it doesn't originate, it's very uncomfortable. [[Widow's remorse.]] No, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Some applause.]] No – no. And, besides, the costs of the debt... we haven't tripled; there are some financing costs. Maybe one day we'll start talking about numbers, too. This is a shame, to inherit, and this is intergenerational irresponsibility. And it's not true that we've abandoned the university system. I've said it before, I'll say it again. The costs... – and see if we understand the concepts –, the costs, this 75_per_cent, here is higher than other places. The generality had to invest. Do you know how much we invested in these years? 95_million more, at universities, 95_million more– yes, sir–, if not, the deficit would still be much higher. Why did he transfer to the students? So why is it transferred to the cost of the materials or is it transferred directly to the university transfers, because we have to manage this misery, forgive me for saying so. But apart from that, we've complemented it with a scholarship system. So, I'm not talking about absolute prices, I'm talking about what importance students are actually paying. We have more than 45 percent of the students who are from the communities... Yes, where there are more students. You're doing the middle of the price that students are paying. Why don't we do those numbers instead of the prices in abstract? Look at how much each family actually pays. Why do the fairies have something to say, too, right? That's what I'm talking about. Do you have anything to say? We've totally abandoned the fairies, and we've pushed them too. From here, the law..., at the level of convenient collections, statutes, it is clear that we are in favour – it is clear that we are in favour. But this must also be accompanied by presuppositional supplies. And obviously, I'll tell you again, governing is about managing the resources you have, not the resources you want. I'm telling you, isn't there an extension of assumptions? Look, you could've helped us approve of them. Of course, he didn't tell me what his proposal was at the university level. We drew him some numbers, we exposed him some numbers. They didn't tell us why they didn't approve of these college-level assumptions. I don't know – I don't know. We don't understand if they agreed, or not. Why didn't they approve? So, look, thanks to your not approving assumptions, so we're still on hold. But apart from that, we are working on this, as said, contingency plan, and we have made assumptions in the first place for the issue of pay increment, we have said; now we will have to add other imports, and that is what I have commented that we are working with the Vice-President, because this decree has come upon it. No, we're not in favor of precariousness, look, don't go to... Yes, contractual precariousness, that you're fine, that you're holding a statue... Yes, you're calling, and so much calling, that we're drafting the law of science, because there was no legal framework here to regulate investigator activity. Imagine that we are aware of the precarious situation in which many researchers sometimes work. Don't you understand he's calling a law of science? Cal, to regulate these other things, like intellectual property. The pre-project before the month of July the tindran damont la taula. He's been working on it. We announced it, or so on, they're not supersonic at the time of... we announced it a while ago; it's going to happen in July. So I'm going back to saying the same thing: we manage the resources we have, and the priority in the university knowledge system we understand it as well as social, and we're working with the vice president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.264.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Inquiries to the Government on inclusive school]] [[300-00141/12]] The next question is about inclusive school, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose it has the word Mrs Esther Niubó's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.265.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor... A greeting, first of all, to the seas of children and children with chronic illnesses that follow us, who need health care, which I will talk about later, and also to people and many families who follow us through social networks. Miri, a few months ago, in an inquiry that made my group about a little state of public education, swayed and expressed the feeling of disappointment with his department. We already know that assessments have a lot to do with expectations, and we actually had a little higher, didn't we? We thought... we came from where we came from, we knew his speech and we expected more from his department, but the truth is that with time he's stopped us. And on that occasion we withhold it, and we keep it today, that we did not understand any change to the educational policies of their predecessors of Convergence, except, yes, of the department's name change, but that on the ground of the facts we only found incompliments with the given word, announcements or promises – this was, for example, for the zero-three – or inaction, or directly a step forward and three steps back, as we saw with the decree of womensadors or with the resolution of the dual PS. But, look, if we can also comment on some of the current issues related to the management of your department, we want to tell you what we are still more concerned about today, and we are very concerned about how the issue of dual VET has been managed, not only because of the lack of social and political consultation – and also because of the policy – especially because it was a very important and strategic curriculum reform for the country, and it is no longer just that it did not go through the rectoral committee, where it is often assumed that it is working with different social agents the deployment of FP law, is that the proposal that had been made represents an important academic content loop, a very important academic boost in the first course, which could also lead to a barrier, or directly generate, or directly. And another topical issue that we are very concerned about and that we also want to take advantage of to say is the new closures or announcements of new closures of P3 lines. We again have a flood of educational centres that see how they stand up to lines, despite the fact that this Parliament has voted against these unilateral closures, especially when the demographic crisis, which in effect exists, is an opportunity to reduce rates, and that it is also a fundamental issue to give more quality attention. And the reality is that we have again schools – could speak of the Mediterranean center of Roquetes de Sant Pere de Ribes, of a school of Reus – which have offered some lines in the pre-registration process, which, although covered in the process this demand, see how this week they communicated that their project will lose lines, by strict order and command of the department, without dialogue with the educational community or with the affected assemblies. Therefore, new covert shortcuts, race increments, ballots, lack of public seats, and new lack of joints. No news, we've already seen it with Mrs. Rigau. So it's no longer just that we're concerned that we don't see differences between what Mrs. Rigau did and what you're doing; nor are we surprised that they're making more powerful bets for inclusion or equity, because that certainly would mean more resources than they do now, but the problem is that you're running new retails up to and up to the extended assumption of what's available, and that's what we've seen clearly with the FP or with the P3 line lock. But now I want to focus on the object of this inquiry, which is inclusive school. You know as well as we do that we are a few years into the inclusive system that you provide for the 2007 decree, that for a band it did raise the attention to the student with special educational needs, but above all a model of school for everyone, without exclusions, with a quality educational attention to the diversity of children and with an offer of training throughout life, with personalized, flexible itineraries, and we say that there are years into the light. And I'm no longer putting up the challenge of an inclusive system in its globality, which would be the letter of the decree, which is certainly ambition. We're not going in here. We don't want to make a maximum proposal. And I believe that you in the reply will recognize, as you have already done, that you have not begun to implement this decree or to deploy it, as you have recognized at the beginning of this course. But it's that in the field of student education with special educational needs, so we don't think they're on the rise either. And this is the level where we think we can demand solutions and above all prioritize. And we want to make it clear that this is not a debate or a moral judgment that my group does to you or to your party from a supposed moral superiority; that's not it. We are convinced that a large majority of this chamber, as well as you, would like to see a system more inclusive than we have, but I say this because it does not have to be a moral judgment nor does it have to be a subject exclusively conditioned on economic resources, on parties of suppository availability. We need to talk about rights. And, therefore, we would like to place this intervention on the ground of priorities, they are aware of what we are: indeed, we are on the presuppositional side, and therefore in a context of a certain limitation, but there is also a margin for manoeuvre. And I say that because in this Parliament in the last few months we have seen some adjustments, some better for some concrete collections, with this same context. Well, it seems to us that it is an absolute priority for this country to give proper education to students with special educational needs to ensure equal opportunities and their right to education, and that doesn't always happen. This week we saw a Digital Nation – Digital Nation headline who said that Catalonia is the penultimate state student supporter with special educational needs. And we see how this government, therefore, continues the dynamics of previous courses stem from the detailings carried out these last two years for nationalist governments in public education, which have not reverted. It is true that we have some new professional staff, but there are still a lot of professionals and specialized staff – vets, ITs, interpreters, etc. – and this continues to create a problem of inadequate attention to this type of student. And obviously this has also impoverished the quality of public education, its results, and also eroded the inclusive school model and above all the compliment of its objectives: equity and cohesion. And this lack of resources in public centres has also caused a certain collapsing in specialized centres, some reference centres, which have suffered a further increase in student attendance at regular school, and in most cases they have not received the necessary economic support. Therefore, we have students with special educational needs with right to go to the public school that do not adequately see their needs due to lack of these staff and special education centers that do not receive the necessary support from the Administration. And we would not want to make a list of concrete problems per collection or typology, but yes some examples, also recent. In a government agreement, I'd say it was last week's, it was about the need for sign language interpreters for the deaf student who opts for bilingual schooling to facilitate their access to the curriculum, and what seemed to be an increase in resources for this student, so we see that they assigned the same as in the previous years, and so they continued without having the majority of reading hours, with the consequences that this has. Where is the government's commitment with the proper attention of this student? Or more generic questions. We are very concerned about early detection of disorders each time with greater prevalence in the child population– autistic spectrum disorders, specific disorders of language, dyslexia, learning difficulties–, are aware that early detection can allow us to act before, coordinate better the different resources – pediatrics, psychiatry, PAEs, school, families–, and avoid cases of subsequent school failures or winging, as is often the case. And we understand that this difficulty of early detection is very great, it is very uneven depending on the resources of families and access to information and services. And we know what the starting point is: an educational stage such as zero-three, exclusive competence of the Government of the Generality, abandoned – we have not spoken often – and where the TEIs, the techniques of child education, often do not replace or, in any case, do not. And, therefore, we have a first problem at the initial stage for early detection, and here is a lacuna of the decree, which does not take into account this initial educational stage. Secondly, we do not reveal any surprise if we say that we have specialized educational resources: the PAAs, the USEEs or SIEIs, as you might say, high rates, difficulties for the coordination work to be done. We have these overcrowded educational services. And to the details of these two years, which, as I said, have not been reversed, there are specifically the breakdowns of resources and staff of the PAAs, the number of decisions or places of special educational needs with professional hours in the ordinary classrooms. And we ask you, counselor: do you have any proposals for the proper course to overcome this deficiency? Or in high school, what do I have to explain to you, that he's a teacher? A cremated teacher, with thirty or more students in the classroom, with very diverse needs, of high complexity, behaviors, disruptive groups, little support, less training and indications of making individualized support plans, which are normally better and which are sufficiently dissension on the margin of group work. Or professional training. There is still much more need to expand FP's public offer, with more specific format itineraries. But in any case, counselor, we have quite a few more considerations, concerns that we'll leave behind, and let's expect in any case first your appreciation on this side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.266.0	Thank you, Congresswoman, It is now the return, to make the answer, of the Councillor of Education, Mr Josep Bargalló. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.267.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs..., honourable Member, my appreciation of your first part is that you played cheating – you played cheating. Fans often enough... because, of course, you've given me a lot of homework. If I'm talking about answering each topic properly, I can only answer it a few times. As I won't be able to answer them all, he'll tell me I haven't answered them all, and he'll be very outraged. If I answer them over, she'll tell me I've answered them badly and she'll do a lot of indignant. But this happens when, instead of grabbing a theme, a lot of them try to skittish it. Well, it's the work of opposition, anyway: when there's no such project, skitting the others' project. That's it, it's so simple. Because, for example, of Reus' school that you mentioned to me, are you aware that if we did some AMPAs and did not do some other AMPAs we were expanding segregation in Reus' school centres? Are you aware that what I was asking was to elucidate segregations at Reus school? Are you aware? Are you aware that you were asking for this? He asked for it, didn't he? Therefore, I can only have, on this petition of his, two poses: either he has done a tweet and has called him or did not know well what he was saying. Because I refuse to accept that you are asking me to take steps to extend school segregation to the city of Reus. Of the same theme, for example, the government agreement of what you are doing, of the presuppositional increase for the reversal of translators of blind people in the classroom, is an obligatory government agreement for the presuppositional extension, is an obligatory government agreement. He says: "He has made the same government agreement. Clearly we've made the same government agreement; it's a government agreement that's bound to extend the budget, it's already there. And he says to me: "He has made the same government agreement! Yes, of course – of course. Do you realize that we are of the presuppositional prorogation, to set an example? You're obvious. Then he says: "Prioritzin. And this is a debate we have all day here: "Prioritzin. Obviously, "priority. We prioritize governments; it's what doesn't make the opposition; but that's logical, because the work of the opposition isn't prioritizing. For each member of the opposition, the theme for which comes from here is priority number 1. We have seen this with the debate of universities: the deputies..., for the deputy who comes out for universities, was priority number 1; and he asked the councilwoman: "Who is the culprit that...? And for education, that's priority number one. Of course it is, they're all number one priority, but we have to put the priority on the table. I can give you an example. We have a shortage of school buildings, rehabilitations, expansions or obvious improvements of 400. We have prioritized it in the department: we have placed in one building number 1 and in another building number 400; obviously we have prioritized it. And when are we gonna make them, 400? On the basis of the presupposition – on the basis of the presupposition –: when we have a presupposition, we can do more; when we have a better presupposition because the Government of the State gives us a free better financing, we will obviously have more. But our job is to prioritize, obviously – obviously. And in this sense inclusive education is a department's will. And, for example, in this course there are more inclusive school facilities than there was in the past. But as we have a pre... "The same premise what do you mean? You know what that means? So in some services there are fewer people, in some services that offer the department there are fewer staff, because we have put more staff in inclusive school, with the same assumption. And what does that mean? That of the department we have prioritized inclusive school to other servants, because with the same assumption, if we have put more teacher, we have made more laws, is that in something else we have less. And in this sense for the continuing department I feel a priority, inclusive school. And then there was a story from the Digital Nation that referred to a report from the ministry. The ministry, instead of dedicating itself to suppressing the LOMCE, which has helped us all a lot, that engages in educational policy, and they have had one year, those of the ministry, to propose the repeal of the LOMCE, instead of proposing the repeal of the LOMCE has done a few studies, which is very well. One of them was about the inclusive school at the state level, and he did it based on the data published for each autonomous community. The data – the data – published for each Autonomous Community are not assimilable for themselves, because each Autonomous Community has different regulations, and in one Autonomous Community it is not considered special education that is considered in another, for example, or the treatment is not the same. And so you get some data on Catalonia where the worst is in a chapter that's said "Other questions"; that's what's worse, that's what's said "Other questions." And yet we have not made clear which other questions are, but there must be other questions; if the ministry says so, we will not deny it. But I can tell you, for example, that a 10_percent of the student who at these times studies, runs compulsory studies in ordinary centers, a 10_per_cent– is a 9 and a lot, round it up to a 10_per_cent, but, if you want, it's a 9 and a lot– has some need for education support, a 10_percent of the student who runs compulsory studies has some need for education support, and that 94_percent of the student with education support needs are at these times in ordinary centers in compulsory teachings. It is the two great facts that we want to value: that 94 per cent of students with some need for education support are in the ordinary center and that in the ordinary centers a 10 per cent of their students have these needs. That's what makes us need to work even harder for inclusive school, for this kind of inclusive school, huh? , because, as you know, for us, because the decree sends it to us, and because it is a will of educational tradition to our country, that many years ago there is a consensus about this..., you know, for example, that there is what is understood as "universal measures for an inclusive educational centre that are to go to the 100_per_cent of the students; that there are additional measures of an inclusive educational centre that are to go to the 20_per_cent of the students – that would be the 10_per_cent that we have said, plus another 10_per_cent that does not consider it but is good that it is worked–, and that after there are some intensive measures that are to be addressed to a 5_per_cent of the students, that is, that is, that it is 10, that it is specific. And that's an inclusive school, huh? , the treatment of the overallity of the school with the treatment of these needs. Do we have all the resources? We've already said a good start, that we don't have them, all the resources. And again to say a fact that is obvious: the decree is of 2017, after the assumptions of 2017. We are on those assumptions of 2017 extended so far, we have extended pre-decree assumptions, which do not provide for the decree. And to change in these years we have, for example, increased in teachers 106, 183 and 78, course by course, and in PAS, 59, 73 and 55. All those we've increased for inclusive school, I insist, we've got them from other people, because the assumptions don't allow us to contract them. This effort we will continue to take the coming course, but obviously we will still devote much more effort to taking the assumption, because with a new assumption we can actually begin to take the real needs of inclusive school; with extended assumptions we will do the same as now: we will put more resources, but unfortunately we will have to take them from another place, because we prioritize inclusive school, but I insist, the first priority is to get some assumptions. I hope that if they get to Madrid, we'll be able to keep it a little easier. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out]] That someone, too...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.268.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.269.0	...is you think you can keep them in Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.270.0	Thank you. In order to make the reply, Congresswoman Niubó has the word when she wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.271.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I thought I was being outraged. I don't think anyone's indignant. Indignantly, there are many families who see their children as lacking resources in schools. And that's true, and there are examples, that's reality. I mean, it's not that nobody scares or is outraged, but that outrage comes from the citizenry. You were talking about the presuppositional prorogation. We are in favour of a presupposition, of entry, because you have neither presented nor approved a presupposition to the council, because you did not gather the presuppositions of the State... But, finally, we do not need to enter here; I believe that everyone knows exactly where we are. Now, it's true that with the long-standing supposition of firefighters, movers, doctors have improved conditions. If this is a priority – it could be a priority – if we agree that it has to be a priority, why don't we put it on the table? I'm saying this because it looks like there's a few limits they don't have to be. Then, counselor, already focusing on..., well, continuing with the concerns we had, on the top of us by many families and associations a problem similar to all educational stages, that is to worry about the passages that are posed to the diagnostics and to the dictamen. We are connoisseurs, in some darker stage, let us say, of some indications that had been given to avoid us dictates, to avoid to the maximum we dictates. And we see with some families of those who can be spavilated, who have more resources, so they get these diagnostics and bring them to the schools; on the other hand, families who do not have so much to the abst have many more difficulties, because of the saturation of the services, and often bother to open these files to the schools. And, therefore, these families, the difficulty of diagnosis and approach, are bringing us here. What can you tell us about this delicate subject? And the other gang sees that once we have the diagnostics, we lack protocols, we need many dozen and the centers know them, that they can apply them. There are many associations that have been pressing for years because their protocols are published; for example, for students with central sensitisation syndrome, we have been asking for them for years. We don't have them. I'd like to talk to you about the concert school, too. The point, above all, is that the public school, therefore, remains inclusive, has the resources that it needs, but when we go to talk sometimes with the concerted school, we see that the affected families that have children and girls who have special educational needs are the ones who end up paying directly the support staff of this student in question; or the families or the AMPAs. And if you really believe in the freeness of education, please do the favor of finding solutions in the near term to end these segregating dynamics. And another educational space we've talked about a lot, which isn't a lesson, but it's an education: the need for food spaces to be inclusive, that have enough staff to suit this student. Just like educational spaces; we can talk about extracurriculars, outings, colonies... It's a question of ensuring equal opportunities and inclusiveness. And we also want to express the support – and now I am addressing the people who accompany us – of mothers of children and children with severe chronic diseases, who need this health care assistance to the schools, who do not correspond to the teachers or to the families, because they cannot be there constantly, that you are demanding school nurses. You know you have our support. And in this sense in the motion that we present we include a concrete point because also the decree of 2017, therefore, can be reviewed and recognize and contemplate infants with chronic diseases, which is not yet happening. And I'd also like to get back a little bit of what that decree said, and I'd expect, from one band, schooling in ordinary student centers with special educational needs. All right. And on the other hand, he maintained the possibility that the families that decided to do so, so he could continue to go to a special education center, in cases of severe, severe disability, which we obviously share. But another issue was the progressive transformation of these centres into service centres, in any case, with collaboration, with work in the network..., and we want to ask them what this is about. And I am saying this because, as always, the excuse is that there are no resources; I will tell you that there are things of the decree that can be deployed, that have not been done, that have no presuppositional effects, as at least in the short term, and one of them would be the conversion of these special schools into reference centers. I wanted to ask, simply, if they kept it clear, if not, if there were any changes on their part. Or on teacher training topics: what is the training program for professionals? This is the question, Counselor: what tools do the teachers or teachers who have special educational needs, each time more complex, with higher rates, what tools are they giving, to these teachers? And yet another thing, which is not worth money, and which we ask years ago: the resource map to the territory of the included. Where it's published, counselor, this map, it's not worth a_euro, and we're still waiting for it. I insist on all this because it's not worth money and it can do it perfectly with presuppositional prorogation. And it's true: if we have long lights, we have to be aware that if this government wants to move forward in an inclusive system, it has to put in place a premise that makes it possible, because without resources it's unthinkable to take this important step. But we wanted to say, from that part« Destination, of 141_million euros of the decree, we wanted to ask, therefore, how many have been spent on teaching staff, how many in training, how many in equipment for support classes... Here we would appreciate an answer. And, therefore, I think it's an evidence: lack of resources, lack of hours of attention [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] Well, it's a lot more personal teaching...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.272.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.273.0	...and, above all, therefore, guarantee some rights that are not fully guaranteed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.274.0	Thank you. To make the last reply is the Councillor's return. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.275.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Member, I point out her initial sentence of "we are on the presuppositional side because they did not approve of us in Madrid, and I say: "I hope that you will have the luck of approving the Madrid ones and so we can approve ours. From here, things that you said: the beggars. You already knew, because your knowledge of the territory and the reality... you must have informed her that at these times, in twelve regions of Catalonia, without any presuppositional change, but with a different management of the money that was brought to the local councils, there are already, the monitors that are in the classroom, the fooder. In twelve comarques of Catalonia. And this same solution that was found in these twelve regions, so we're going to develop it into others. Same assumption, huh? simply with different managements, which, as I have said and insist, in prioritizing now means that we have to stop doing something. Secondly, we have created an inclusive group of educational service referents in the territory, who are experienced in the world of attention to diversity and inclusiveness, and knowers of the resource map of their area, who support inclusive school, both in workshops and in follow-up to all the concrete problems that exist in that territory. These different references are the first stone of a system of attention in the application of the decree that have already begun us..., that we are already beginning to help not only in training, and in training in measures, but also with universal measures and supports in concrete centres. For what it does to intensive measures, we have made a cost of 13_million euros on support monitors. The endowment of SIEI in public or concerted centres is 770 masters. Staffing of SIAL Professionals, 72 Masters of Hearing and Language; Staffing of Professionals for AIS Programs, 30 Teachers and 23 PASs; Number of CEUs, 33 CEUs, which are €5_million; Number of CEUs-PNOs, 7, which are €2_million. In total, contract expenditure, EUR 7_million; agreed expenditure, EUR 1_million. We already have 14 Ceepsir recognizable, that they begin to act with it. We have 567 psychopedagogs, 87 physiotherapists and 107 social workers at EAPs; 9 teachers of special education and 18 psychopedagogs at Cretdic; 30 teachers, 4 psychopedagogs and 1 social worker at CRP, and 383 logopedes, 13 psychopedagogs and 8 audioprotectives at CREDA. Because he was asking me about the rendezvous data, which are some data that according to the way we look at them are very big, and in reality they are still really insufficient, because the deployment can be done. I, for the sake of the question of school nurses, in this presuppostary context, we cannot consider the coming course of a policy of school nurses in the centres. To all centers, obviously not; because, I feel a measure that the assumptions do not admit, we are working with Greeting. And it's already in these moments at the Public Service table, which is to authorize it – because any move of the type I'm going to teach you, must authorize it Public Service –, but we are already at this time with an agreement between Education and Health, which is in Public Service to be corroborated and, therefore, approved by the Government, so that every educational centre in Catalonia has a referral CAP, and has a referral health professional, who works in the educational centre the time you need for those students I need, when I need and the time I need. And this agreement with Salut is already established, its approval is lacking for Public Service, and its approval, too, for Economy. As you know, there are two necessary approvals, that we establish And as it is already at this stage... so, with the agreement of the two departments, we expect this regulatory ratification, we hope that the course that we already have at each center will educate a awarded CAP, and in each CAP a staff responsible for doing these actions. They are not school nurses, they will not be infirm at school, because in September we will not be able to do it, but it will be an attention that will not only – only – be collected in the hands of the professionals of education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.276.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about industry and investment]] [[300-00145/12]] The following inquiry, on industry and investment, presented for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. In order to present it, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.277.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Councillor, Members and Members will allow me to start with a common congratulations – I would say, impersonal, commune – on all the papers, for the announcement of the investment in the supercomputer of the UPC in Barcelona, which will entail an injection of 100_million euros per European Union, and 100_million euros more, said the president this morning, on behalf of other institutions, without concrete action. Let's put them together: it will be the Ministry of Science, obviously, and I also suppose the Department of Enterprise, right? Because when things are done with co-operation, they are successful, aren't they? , and when successful, I think it's worth celebrating them, and in this sense, I think it's worth putting it in storage, in an inquiry that specifically refers to industry and investment. Miri, this inquiry, we planted past dives, and dilluns appeared an article in a Catalan newspaper, La Vanguardia, which reflected quite well where I wanted to plant it at the councillor, and that if I may, therefore, I will read some abstracts. The title of the article was "Why Catalonia Grows Less? , i go to say, among other things: « Since the end of 2017 Catalonia has grown less than Madrid after four years in which the behavior was just the opposite. Why? I point out three reasons: « The greatest weight of industry in Catalonia, which goes through a bump all over Europe, the capital effect, and the negative consequences of the political tension resulting from the independence process are the causes that economists repeat most to justify the situation. I point out other information from BBV Research, which also quoted the president this morning: « During the period 2014-2017, a third part of Catalonia's growth came from industry. Or the Secretary-General of Labour Development, who said that « the worst relative behaviour of the industry is due to factors such as the fall of activity in Germany, the rise of commercial protectionism and Brexit – this is seen as not good for the economy – « which has caused exports to resent. And even an advisor to the same Department of Economics, Mr. Jordi Angusto, said that the Catalan economy is open..., "and therefore more affected by volatility. And it's about the other element, which is the process. « The derivative of political tension by the independence process. In the fourth quarter of 2017, data indicate that the Catalan economy is starting to grow less than that of Spain as a whole. And finally, I have to say that with a certain surprise, because at least politically, in Parliament and from the institutional point of view, it's the first time that someone from the government recognizes, and it was done by the vice president and economic adviser in the Sitges Economic Circle..., that he recognized that his move had a certain impact, that it was not immediately, but that it did have a certain impact on the Catalan economy, and that is obviously not an anecdote, that's where we've defended many times since this very event. I suppose that the Idecat is not conxorxed with us either, and today, therefore, it has made public the quarterly comptability, relative to the first quarter of 2019, and they point out to us some data, that you, therefore, must already know, obviously, and worry us. I don't intend to make a reading, or much less, catastrophic of everything I'm setting up. The market of the economy, the market of the industry has good health, but it has elements of concern, and what lies ahead of the cophoism that you show from the department... Last week they explained to us the inversion data that had been obtained from Action. The President of the Generality, today himself attributed himself, to him or to the Government, the downfall of the city. And so, with a little..., as a matter of fact, I was a little surprised that a government that has not adopted a measure in the economic sphere – or at least we believe that it has not adopted a measure in the economic sphere–, so I'm fighting here at the Faristol and saying, "Listen to me, we've lowered the rate to a level of 11_per_cent, right? Well, listen to me... But I do think it's worth filling out those elements that point to us..., elements that at least set us off with alarm lights, and that on which we think it's worth acting there, working there and trying to correct it. What can never be done is this if we do not take into account the fact that there are elements of concern. So, the data from the Idescat tells us that GDP is growing 2.1_per_cent, but what's relevant is that it's growing less GDP in Catalonia than in Spain's conjunction, which is growing 2.4_per_cent, when traditionally this is the opposite. And it points us to a slowing down in the consumption of llars. I don't agree with you, I agree with the Department of Economics, but in this sense, fiscal pressure in Catalonia is a determining factor in the consumption of money, but also from the point of view of demand, the reversal has a fall. And start an alarm light on exports. A few months ago, I myself asked the Economic Councillor about the competitiveness of the Catalan economy, and said to him: "Ecculti'm, with exports, that are positive, and that they are positive, there are signs of alarm – there are signs of alarm. Well, today we have the xifra that the rate is a decrease in exports, of 1.1_per_cent, for the first time– for the first time – since 2011. But the industry also has a negative growth rate of 0.8_per_cent. More than he gives us the Idescat. The industrial production index, of the month of April, recently: in Catalonia it falls 3,4_per_cent while in Spain it grows of 1,9, in the conjunct of Spain. Industrial production commands in Catalonia fall by 0.3_per_cent while in Spain they grow by 2.4_per_cent. I compare with Spain because traditionally Catalonia, and the Catalan industry, has always pulled a lot out of the Spanish joint venture industry and has always had a very important part in the joint venture of the Spanish economy and in the joint venture of the Spanish industry. So I think it's worth making this comparison to see how we're going, how we're going forward. The industrial investment: Catalonia, in which it goes from year, grows a 0.4_per_cent, but it does a_me queia; now it grows, substantially, moderate, a 0.4, but it is that Spain grows a 10.8_per_cent. And the most worrying, the thing that has the most direct impact on people: industrial occupation. The industrial occupation is at these times 620,000 people occupied in the industry sector when last year we were at 635,000; that is, it generates occupation, but in the industrial sector there are lost jobs, or as at least there have been lost jobs in the last six months; in any case, in the last three months, it is kept at this level let's say we are down. Therefore, elements of concern. While we have the Pact for Industry, which they compared, with the Director General of Industry, to the Commission to present it, and you say to us and repeat to us: "School, 87_per_cent has been completed, and it required an effort to reverse by the imported department, and it is the miracle of the pans and fishes, because they have made this reversal of the Pact of Industry without having any assumptions, nor 2017, because when the Pact for Industry was approved the assumptions of 2017, neither 2018, nor 2019 had already been approved. So, counsel, how does it affect the fact that there are no presuppositions for the development of the Pact for Industry? And, if I may, I will finish this first introduction here and, all the while, with your answer, we can continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.278.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, effectively, has the word "Consellera d'Empresa i Coneixement", the lady Maria Àngels Chacón.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.279.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. Well, it's seen that the alarmism about the evolution of the Catalan economy if we don't abandon according to what postulates he plans and continues to plan. You asked, said, in an article from..., it seemed to me that it was from La Vanguardia, asked: "Why does Catalonia grow less? I asked myself: "Why is there less unemployment in Catalonia? Why is there less unemployment in Catalonia than in Spain? I don't know; it's a question. We are at '11,4_per_cent of time, three percentage points less than the Spanish State, which is at 14,7_per_cent. And, look, if we're not responsible there's less time, huh? So neither are we responsible if the evolution of the economy does not go as you say – which I will now kill it – in denial. It is to say, the size and the bones: can not be responsible for the good figures and in change yes for the bad figures – according to you, bad ones. To begin, then, ask us these questions. And then: it's an opinion, it's an article. And you are now referring to some indicators that have appeared from this first quarter. Let's go back to the same: Wait for us to finish the year, huh? Why does it happen after there's been corrections, too, huh? ; there are corrections as for example..., and this with the same data of the ministry: 2016, for example, in foreign investment issues, first they gave the data of 5,137_million euros, then we had to rectify to 8,277. So, we're still careful. And let's just say it all, when we talk about decline. Why didn't we mention that the year... on the subject of exports themselves, for example. The year 2018 was historical record, with more than 71,000_million euros in exports – historical record. If in this historical record, in the first quarter, we're down a 1.1_per_cent, it's a lot different from this fall, which looks terrible in the dry, from exports. We came from an absolute historical record and dropped a 1.1 in a quarter. Does that mean we're snoring now, too? Well, I don't think so. Therefore, they remain strict. I ask many times: in these reports on the negative trend of the evolution of the Catalan economy, so, this instability..., why don't we adopt a little more rigour and why aren't we also aware of how this type of discourse affects the global image of our economy? I can't imagine... I can't imagine, really, other countries where, depending on the political force that follows, and here each has the arguments, we speak poorly, in all negatiu, of the evolution of the economy. Are we really prioritizing investments or are we prioritizing a political discourse in the dry? Another topic, in terms of investment and economic developments. Miri, the industry, the occupation of the industry is returning to all of Europe. Why? So, welcome to the 21st century, welcome to which is Industry 4.0, where there is a transformation of work places, there is a transformation of product models. This also implies a transformation of the occupation. I would be very concerned – and I repeat, when you gave these figures, please compare them to the rest of Europe – if these figures are not accompanied, this trend, to the other band, with creation, and in positive, employment in sectors linked to the new technologies and to this new economy. And here we are leading. Here we are not only leading, we are growing, in a 16_per_cent; for example, the occupation in new technologies grows in Catalonia a 16_per_cent. This is also a date to which we could refer. About what kind of investments we prioritize: those that generate occupation; those that generate occupation and those that generate quality jobs. That's why when we talk about the evolution of the economy we have a few parameters, but this department that prioritizes are those investments that involve creating jobs and added value. About data in foreign investment. You used to say that. Not sometimes, but things are as they are. There has been an increase in job creation, of projects managed by Action. Certainly, many times we question the reversal we make in five departments. Miri, the more than forty Offices of Action we have all over the world, these forty Offices– thirty..., forgive me, some twenty Professionals... –, these, generate 24_per_cent, help capture 24_per_cent of the foreign investment in Catalonia: for each euro invested in these Offices, in rebem 129 of the investment. Just with profitability criteria, that's what I think is very positive. So, enough of these catastrophic speeches, we're still rigorous, we're looking at why there's a transformation of the product fabric. And it's obvious that... I told him that the industry is transformed, and it's obvious that there's going to be regularization of a lot of jobs. But it's also obvious that we've already started working there. And we started, we announced it a few days ago, in a sector like automotive. There have also been some regularizations of the seedlings of this industry. So we're already working. Because industry transforms, it transforms. I would say again: I would be very concerned if we were not generating occupation in all these new sectors. Leaderem, we lead the foreign industrial investment to all of Spain, with a 30_per_cent; of all the foreign industrial investment, a 30_per_cent passes to Catalonia. I don't know if this gives you any thought or not, or we're still in this mess. And when you were wondering – about this article, huh? – « Why does Catalonia grow less? , jo li dic: « Why is there less unemployment in Catalonia? I would appreciate it if you answered it – something must be doing well –; that you also take into account the figures of industrial evolution in Europe, not just talking and comparing with what we have had this past year. And I said it before: if we are responsible for good things..., forgive me, bad things, good things, too, and much more; it's to say, or anything else. And it's more, we also have some data that confirm us... : last year, 2018, we're the third..., Catalonia, as for regions, third region to Western Europe in the name of job creation; we passed ahead of the southeast of England and Ireland. We are the third in industrial occupation creation – in industrial occupation creation. I don't know if it makes him reflect either. What we obviously do not share are the criteria used by the ministry many times to make this balance of investments, in which they include, for example, concepts such as foreign investment, the acquisition of stock exchanges; do not consider, as inverted in Catalonia, the investment made in an industrial plant in Catalonia, but that it is carried out by a company that has its own social in another community... So, we have a little bit more rigour too at the time of talking about ciphers. And I ask myself: about your message, your question, your question, what should I stay with? , that the economy seeks because some of us keep our right to self-determination? Is this the consequence of why the cau economy?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.280.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply, the Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.281.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, no, it was..., I think either he didn't listen to me or I didn't express myself well; just like I wasn't expressing myself well. Well, if you want, I'll answer it, huh? Because in Catalonia there is less chance than in other places in Spain; if I want to, I'll answer it. Because fortunately, despite you, the Catalan company continues to work and continues to generate jobs, despite you and you pose all the obstacles that have been and are needed. And, if you want, then I'll give you some very recent example. Sometimes it's one of these... Now, what do you expect me to come here to say? "There has been a decline in industrial production; congratulations, Counselor, are we well? , « exports are falling; congratulated, will advise, well? Do you want me to come and give you this speech? It wouldn't be useful, it wouldn't be useful. We are simply saying to him: "Listen, there are elements of alarm, there are elements that worry us, there are elements that we want to put together, that we want to call attention to the Government because it acts in the measure possible to facilitate that it is correcting these elements. I think it's an honest exposition, because I could come and say here: "Listen, no, we're very good – we're very good – and we're very good – and we're very good." Listen to me, I don't think it's fair that we adopt a paper of these characteristics. Well, about the investments. In the first place, a point. Look, we've never questioned the role of Action or the offices outside of Action; we've never questioned it. Because we understand that they're useful and that you're useful. And I've said it many times in this same faristol. What we have questioned is political delegations abroad, and we will continue to question the times we need them. Because they are at odds with the task they make of Action; talking badly about our society is going against the economy of our own society. Foreign investments. He quoted them from you; I had not quoted them. But, yes, I remind you of the data that you publish to Idescat and that you do not like them: 2017, drop of 59_per_cent; 2018, drop of '11_per_cent. He said: "They are not serious, they are not strict. Who are the serious and the strict? The ones that you publish, that they assign to 2017 an investment in hotels in the area of Tarragona with an investment of not know how many million euros and don't know how many places of work created? If not a stone has been laid! If you have already begun the works in Barcelona that not in Tarragona, from the inversion of Hard Rock that you reckon as feta in the year 2017. Rigor is what we're asking for, too. Rigor. He says to me: "Listen to me, the data of the occupation to the industry... If it is not invented, if it is the data of Idescat. Miri, in addition, I've been writing him the history series since 2008 – since 2008. And effectively in 2017 it began to recover the occupation in the industry, it comes to a peak of 635,000 occupied in the industrial sector in mid-2018, and at these times we are at 620,000. That is to say, in the last six months, there has been a setback in the industrial occupation. We'll like it better or less; I don't like it – I don't like it – but that's what there is, that's what the ciphers say. And, therefore, I allow myself to call your attention to this fact. This is happening – this is happening. Therefore, we take action. It's obviously not alarmism, as I wanted to express it. I'm talking about it, I'm trying to talk about industry, because industry, the competence, obviously, of the Generality, has a very important component, and especially in Catalonia, about the economy. And that's why we think that the industrial sector, this industrial sub-sector of the Catalan economy, is quite relevant because we pay attention to it. And he tells us: "There are five speeches that affect the economy. I already agree, but he won't tell me it's us! - He won't tell me it's us! In any case, the speeches that affect the economy are those of "We will put an end to the Catalan economy for fifteen days, so that we can achieve independence. Or the speeches that affect the economy are those that we have heard here today, in this faristol, and that come to say: "We will do it again. That's what scares businesses, that's what scares the economy, that's what causes businesses to break out of Catalonia and that there's no investments in Catalonia that they should have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.282.0	Thank you, Congressman. And then, on behalf of the councillor, when you want to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.283.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, this warning signal that you're telling me, look, we don't have to focus on people who, as I said before, defend this right to self-determination, because, yes, we can carry deep ties, we can want to be independent, but we're not drunk: we know very well what kind of country we want, how we want and how we want to position ourselves at world level; and we can manage two things, it's a question of will. We're not bogeymen, we're not bogeymen. Miri, what do you say to the 8,600 foreign companies in Catalonia that haven't moved? Because it is possibly the least politicized, the least political criteria at the time of establishment here, that are looking at what are the actions that offer them Catalonia as well as the territories. It offers them a series of activities, linked, as I say, to the events referring to the world level, as can be the Mobile, as will now be the ISE, with the whole community of start-ups. Why not say, for example, that five years ago – five years ago – we were zero in the European start-ups race? Now there are five of us, and that's why we're not country capital. Barcelona, five start-ups hub, in five years, remember. This is the new economy. I said before: industry is transformed. We are comparing Europe's industrial occupation: it is changing. We'll also see how the servers grow, how they rank these new startups, and see that they're growing. I repeat the jifra: we are nothing and now we are five potency in start-ups hub. I am pleased that you find, therefore, useful– « useful has been the word– these Offices of Action, because they apply all the strategy of the department, all the strategy of government, and it is thanks to this that they capture, as I said before, the 24_percent of foreign investment. And these offices have to answer many questions, these offices, this department. Because, of course, we were almost more than seven months into this speech – with 155 we didn't have any advisors, advisors–, this speech from: "Listen, these are bogged down, this economy is grieving, this is a disaster, you will see, they have lost the seny... But, miri, 2017 we are covering – 2017, so good, so it was signed – to sign the National Pact for Industry, with a consensus, both political and socio-economic, that has no country, not only the Spanish State is able to hold. And I said it before: because we have very clear our productive economy, because we want it innovative, sustainable, open to the world, inclusive... This is the economy we want. And we are able, despite all this context, to make a national pact for industry, in short. This, therefore, means 20 per cent of the pact's failure is due to this situation of presuppositional prorogation. But we are also capable of securing resources, European resources; we are capable of attracting and attracting competitive funds, or European programmes. Now we've just seen one, with the supercomputer, but there are others. Oh, of course we're completing, so, the objectives of the pact. It is clear that they remain pending; it is clear that, obviously, with presuppositional prorogation, there is still no execution. But 87_per_cent with a presuppositional prorogation, I think it's very positive. There are also no more in what we exceed, we exceed in the established indicators. Therefore, this warning signal is not for the independence process, it is because the economy is transforming, Europe is transforming. And we are aware that the United States, with the policy of oranges, can limit us, we are aware of Brexit... By the way, more than a year ago we had Brexit, because that could affect us. In tourism, these alarms are able to detect them and, above all, act there. We have more than 2,800 operators, with whom we are connected by the theme of tourism, because, therefore, England is the second power to visit us, on behalf of visitors. Therefore, the alarms we keep in place. But above all we also have many in those incompliments to the Spanish State that have long limited our economy. First alarm: what about the Mediterranean Corridor? Second alarm: what is happening with the processing of scholarships? What's going on with visa processing, that foreign companies can't bring their addresses here, why are they taking so long to manage visas? What about discrimination, about energy costs? This is an element of competitiveness. It helps us to complain, please, that why the Basque Country has to have electricity costs of a 30_per_cent less. This is an element of competitiveness. That's an alarm. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.284.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about foreign investment in Catalonia]] [[300-00144/12]] The next question is about foreign investment in Catalonia. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the inquiry was made by Congresswoman Teresa Pallarès. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.285.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, yesterday, in a forum with entrepreneurs, he said: "I have a deep place and I want to maintain my political positions, and this does not have to harm the economy or its evolution. I can't hear people talking badly about our economy by political criteria. He was also saying to us today: "We are not fools, we know what we do. I absolutely don't share just the big place – above all today, the demise of this judgment that has occupied us and perplexed us – but also the content of its words. Thank you very much for your hard work, Counselor. Miri, to start this question about foreign investment, in the previous question, many of the data I wanted to talk about now came out of, and I wanted to talk about, precisely, above all, economic data, to encompass... Catalonia's GDP has risen – I see we have different data, okay? – we have grown above the middle of the euro area; we also know that there is an impact on the employment of industry, and above all on issues of the high-tech industry and, therefore, of high added value, which explains many of the motivations that you described in the previous inquiry. But still with this, let's continue with this mantra on the economy: that the economy goes badly, that we're not doing it right, that we're scaring businesses, that companies are leaving, that we don't have or get enough investment... Clearly, though, you should remember that it wasn't us that we made the decree to run away from businesses. You yourself have commented that all these companies that in your day have moved their own – not the production centers – are invited to return whenever they want. In Catalonia, as we are demonstrating, we are poor people – we have said it and we will continue to say it – and people who do very well the work. Because, look, we're working to be an industrial country, we want to be ahead to compete globally and move forward, as you said, counselor, to industry 4.0, because it can't be any other way. This concept appeared for the first time at the Hannover Fire in 2011, and what it supposes is a digitalization of the industry; it expresses the fourth industrial revolution, using all the technologies that are super-advanced – robotics, additive manufacturing, the internet of things, etc. – that enables and has to enable connectivity between different systems across the value chain, but also as a network of this value between companies and, basically, an interaction between man and machine. This, somehow or otherwise – and I know that the department is working there – has to change with the professional profiles of the future. Catalonia is prepared, with good talent, to take on these changes. This fourth industrial revolution is already there and is generating change with incredible speed. We know, Counselor, how the National Pact for Industry demonstrates this, how the data on foreign investment and foreign investment – which we will now also be talking about – show that we are doing the work, contrary to those who do nothing but say that this government does not govern. Hence the importance that it has for us, for the government, and also for us, the legislators, to take this care of the proper business fabric, but also of that power and experience that must bring us the attraction of foreign companies, which must complete and complement the strength of this industry, to make it even more competitive on the model of 4.0. Look, we're attractive, and I'm not the only one. And I already know, I'll be told that some people don't believe them, but going out to the Financial Times tells us that we're the best region in southern Europe for investing, so something has to do with their department, counselor. And I ask myself, then, what is this task of government and this direction that went further and that sought these investments, what is this objective and purpose to complete and complement the industry at our home. The latest publications that have donated on your department through the Catalunya Trade Investment..., have produced interesting results. Whether they believe it or not, but I write it and, more than that, I think they're very interesting. This morning, the same President Torra, taking stock of this year's management, he was also commenting, wasn't he? , these data: that during the past five years 14-18 there has been an increase of 65_per_cent in the foreign investment captured by this organization and that it has exceeded 1,500_million euros, which have obviously positively impacted the Catalan industry. It can't be any other way. Finally, each of the workers of this department, the Catalonia Trade Investment, has managed to capture a xifra of 10_million euros, between the people who are in Barcelona and the external offices. And I repeat: 8,2, almost 10_million euros, of the work done for each of these workers. And I say so, Counselor, because those who put so much in their mouths the word "chiringuitos" – that now that there is no Mrs. Arrimadas possibly already lose her from the parliamentary dictionary – do so without thinking and without really appreciating the work that is there at the back. And, therefore, this is an important step in attracting investment, but it is also a step that supposes not only this money, but also the creation or maintenance of work places, which in this case are 172 work places for each of these workers. Therefore, we are not creating imaginations, but they are made. I, like Gonzalo Boye said, like you said, I'll leave it there, right? because we reflect every time that those who can go quiet to the plaza this summer and are in a small room really think about the connotations that you have given to this word. Look, all this work that's responding to a strategy, I'm not very convinced. It's a serious, systematic job, I have no doubt about it. There is a strategy of attracting investments in which you prioritize – now you can also explain it to us – the promotion, in which countries there is fire, which are global reference companies and which projects you consider to be strategic. I'm sure you've fitted the value chain prioritizing the fit of these projects into the industrial projects we already have in Catalonia, and in a clear way, as we've seen in the past with the supercomputer, right? , the topic of technological centres also, research centres and, above all – above all – logistics, from which many of the infrastructures that for us set a key axis, as you yourself said, on competitiveness, do not depend on us. And the future is logistical or it won't be; therefore, we can't stop working on this line. Clearly, prioritise industry 4.0, with the evolution of automotive as a motor of change of mobility to our cities, the better attention to people, greeting, chemistry, etc. Let's work hard. I think, Counselor, that you can say it with your mouth wide open and very clear, because we are becoming one of the main industrial engines in Europe, with all the changes that this is producing at the training level, at the workplace level. They know they can lead this technological revolution. We know we can do it, we're doing it, and we're still doing it more. We know that this involves a huge effort to offer the tools that our business fabric needs, depending on who they come from; we will not stop working on this line, because we know how to talk about added value, rigor and technology. And in this scener, counsel, I first of all must aggravate the work that your department does, put in store that the data they have given these days... that many always pose them in question and mount some strange mantras on our economy, many times they are empty critics, of a populism and an alarmism that I believe is what really hurts our economy, and I believe, moreover, in an irresponsible way, creating unattractive scenes or unattractive formulas, no longer because of the attraction of the industry, but sometimes also with impacts on the tourism sector, which you also represent, right? It's a shame. But, despite the decree to escape from business and all these speeches, our industry is strong, it shows strong and shows a great deal of willingness to the future, which brings us these changes so quickly. Counselor, with your words we would like to know the value of the work done, of these data presented at length on the subject of foreign investment and what is the message that we must send to all the entrepreneurs from our home and also to those promotions, to those entrepreneurs from outside who want to come to our home. What's our attraction, what's the message that their department is doing to reinforce this future scene, which I have no doubt they've been working on for a long time. Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.286.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word, the Counsellor of Enterprise and Knowledge, Mrs. Maria Àngels Chacón.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.287.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. The strategy of attracting investments, the strategy of wanting to be proactive, of wanting to be active in this new context, obviously we have been working on it for some time now, is working within the department. And attached to the General Directorate of Industry there is Action – Action is the Agency for Enterprise Competitiveness –, and within Action there is this Catalonia Trade & Investment agency, because we have always understood it, because we are an economy and a government that wants to be open to the world and want to interact with the rest of the economies. Before that: we must be aware of how the industry is transforming, this new industry 4.0, and we must also be aware of how geopolitics are influencing it. How do we get investments? First of all, let me give you some money so that we can make clear the markets that decide to invest in Catalonia. The 23_percent of investments are from the United States, 14_percent from Japan, 11_percent from England and 9.5_percent from Germany. It is with these economies that we are very and very loving not only in its evolution, but also in its predisposition, and above all – here we do have to act as commercials – what we offer – you asked, MP – what we offer at the time to capture investments, which are the actions we offer. In the first place, let's work so much proactive investment, that is, the one we are going to look through our offices abroad, like reactive, when someone is addressing us and asking us for the possibility of investing here in Catalonia, which is helping them. And we assign... there's always a manager assigned to complete project management. We prioritize these countries, these emerging countries in new technologies, not emerging in the economy, these priority countries, which are leading the technological evolution. Let's go look, interact a lot with global reference companies. Miri, today, while there was this session in Parliament, there was in the morning an announcement by Hewlett Packard, here at the plant of Sant Cugat, of an inversion, of a very important project, and today, this late, the president is visiting the installations of Boehringer, a pharmacist, who has also decided to bet for Catalonia. Therefore, these are the projects we are looking for, these projects of high added value that position us, which consolidate us as the pole of attraction of talent and generation of economic activity. We prioritize industrial projects, we prioritize research and innovation centres, we also prioritize the installation of their centres of intelligent decision-making centres. There are several, they're known, this past year, the ones who decided to invest here. Obviously, because of our geophysical position, the logistics centers too. In what activities? So in mobility and vehicle of the future, in industry 4.0, in life sciences, in biotechnology we are also leaders, in food, in logistics and in textiles, design and fashion. These are the main areas where we focus, not only by giving this integral assistance to any reversal that is directed at us. We're also very interested in capturing events, events that follow... we all know what happened to Mobile. Apart from the event itself, the days in which it is celebrated, there was also, after that, a whole set of parallel economic activity, and proof of that were the start-ups that had been mentioned before. The same thing we want you to do with this new event linked to the audiovisual, the audiovisual brought to lands like construction, brought to lands like industry. We also want this new thread to bring us back all this business dynamism. And now, that will be two years from now, we are starting to work now; with Mr Blackman, the CEO of ISE, this event, we are already having meetings, we are having meetings with our educational centers, with our entrepreneurs, with our young start-ups. It's a job she'll see in two years, but we're already doing it now, because we're very fond of everything that's going on. And what do we offer? Why are we gaining competitiveness now? So because there's a series of duets that we've done well. And we have done well to bet for the productive economy, for this economy based on industry; more than 20_percent of GDP is industrial. The European Community in the year 2020 found that we would have to have a 20_percent of industrial GDP; we already have and exceed it. Besides, a very diverse industrial fabric. We have quickly adopted the new technologies, which are also leading us in these new technologies. We have taken care of and aged because these first-level scientific infrastructures are still in Catalonia. It is important the supercomputer, yes, but the most important of all is the name of projects that will attract, the name of researchers, as our companies will be more competitive, as all this has a social return and above all as industrially we take advantage of it. And here, in the wake of alarms..., today, speaking of alarms, one of the biggest alarms we have is the technological dependence of the United States or the Xina; how important it is that we have, that we manufacture computer processors here. So this supercomputer, in a project parallel to the structure, will promote the manufacture of these components. Therefore, we are very and very clear that we either generate knowledge or have to buy it. If we're not independent in knowledge, don't be independent in anything. And it is in this sense that we prioritize these investments, because at the end of all this, at the end of each of our actions, there is a strategy. And what's the strategy? Betting on this world-wide economy, it's before, inclusive, sustainable and obviously innovative. We are also very concerned about the uptake of European research and research funds. In this we are extremely proactive, because we will return to the same, if we do not generate knowledge, we will have to buy it. And it's in this sense that apart from empowering start-ups... in the start-ups before I said zero to the fifth position. This isn't overnight. Here there is a department, also linked to what is entrepreneurship, to the promotion of entrepreneurship, which has all programs, which interacts with Fira de Barcelona, which interacts with the Mobile Foundation, which interacts with our product fabric, from which there are initiatives such as the Four Years from Now, and there are initiatives such as the start-ups name. What's the next step? We'll be back..., we'll see the alarms, the creation of startups in the world is proliferating; we'll start treating startups vertically, by sectors; we'll start a little while ago pushing tech-based startups linked to a sector like trade. All that I'm explaining to you, that it may seem like a futuristic sic, if we don't do it now, if we don't apply this strategy now, five years from now, it's not going to lower the industrial reversal, it's going to lower any type of activity. We either understand once in a while the economy in which we are immersed or a few years from now what we're going to do is talk about how many we're going to spend on social services because we're going to have most of the people out of work. Precisely because that's what we don't want, because we want to generate occupation, to prepare our people for this new context, we're moving now and we're defining strategies now, because we have it clear, I said it yesterday, I'll say it tomorrow and I'll follow it saying: Catalonia wants to have a proactive role in this new economy and has all the ingredients to be there. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-13-3301.288.0	Thank you, Counselor. We'll suspend the session until tomorrow morning.
