ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.1.0	Well, good morning. MPs, MPs, I nail them to vagrant to their scons. The session begins. The list of questions to be answered orally in the plenary, in accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, shall be replaced by the following: [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak]] – Then I will give you the word, Mr. Carrizosa – tomorrow morning, as usual, as it is also on the order of the day of this plenary session. I also suggest that, in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules, the deputy Antonio Espinosa, with a low-level motion for a severe malalty, has delegated the vote to the deputy Lorraine Roldán, spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Before I begin the first point of the order of the day, I must inform you that, according to the official data of the Department of Interior, unfortunately on the 31st of October the eighth death victim of this year for male violence in Catalonia died in Castellbisbal. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime and reiterate Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women and to age for the record and memory of these victims. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] In addition, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the fact that the Movement 111/XII, of the Parliament of Catalonia, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and policies for the gathering of migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, a million people in the Mediterranean have died since the month of their generation. That said, I also have the impression that different Members, more than a fifth of the House, have asked for a change in the order of the day which consists in asking that the sixth point of the order of the day can be seen in the first place and that which was predicted as the first point of the order of the day can be, in the other hand, seen in the sixth place. [[Questions of order]] Mr. Carrizosa, were you asking for the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.2.0	Yes, Mr President; on a point of order or, rather, two points of order, which actually...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.3.0	Yes; one minute, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.4.0	Yeah. Well, look, the first thing is that I was going to ask you for explanations for the unwarranted and arbitrary change in the agenda, which has even motivated the government not to attend, which has been done six_hours in advance and which is arbitrary, because you know that your agenda does not allow you to make a change to the agenda just six_hours in advance, given that any vice president can preside over this chamber and that his absence would not have prevented the plenary from being held at the scheduled hours. And the second thing – and related to this, and as a point of order – is the very clear will to violate the constitutional court's request by making the change of time of the processing of point 6 to prevent the constitutional court's request from arriving. This is another manoeuvre and another chanchullo of this Bureau that puts you back into illegality and which will not have any legal effect, as I say to you. And, therefore, since the only will behind this change of timetable is precisely to process the motion of the UPC that was to be processed today in the afternoon and thus avoid the request of the Constitutional Court, I ask the intervention of the lawyers and tell them whether the processing in phase of debate and vote of this motion of the violent UPC or not the request, the requests of the Constitutional Court, to prevent or paralyze...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.5.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.6.0	...any decision that runs counter to the Constitutional Court's ruling on..., known as the Catalonia Process.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.7.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.8.0	Yeah. In the same sense expressed by Mr Carrizosa, we also want to make the complaint, on a point of order, for the timing change of the plenary, with a few hours, without a motion, without a justification, and that it is obvious that this implies a reduction in the amount of time to this institution. And we also want to make our complaint and our vote against this change in the order of the day, this order of the day, which, in the end, you are doing is helping to undermine, and ultimately, the institutions. Well, then, it is clear that we have an appeal from the Government of Spain on the table; they have another vote on the right of self-determination; the Constitutional Court has repeatedly ruled on this aspect, and we do not want our institution, which the Parliament of Catalonia has returned to this situation. And therefore, we ask you, therefore, that you do not make this change of order of the day and that we make a preservation of this chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.9.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.10.0	Thank you, President. In our case there are four, the orderly questions we have to raise. The first, also reiterate the complaint about the sudden change in the timing of this Ple's initiation without there being explicit reasons, beyond the famous cunning that characterizes some of you and that you never get used to finishing well. Secondly, to give support to the petition made by the president of the Ciutadans Group to request a report to the judicial services of the Chamber so that it expresses that the vote on the motion from which the alteration of the agenda was requested is in line with the demands made by the Constitutional Court in this Chamber and in particular the members of the Bureau of this Parliament. A third question would be to oppose the altering of the order of the day which has been requested so as to advance this motion's debate to the very hope that the legal report which has been requested may be available. And in fourth place we would ask, in application of rule 83.3, the extension of the order of the day of this plenary so that the appearance of the President of the Generality is substantial because I clarified its relationship with the CDRs that were detained during the past September. We are aware that this request requires two parliamentary groups. That is why we are submissive to the rest of the parliamentary groups in case any other group wants to add to this petition which can, as a minimum, vote on the amendment of the agenda. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.11.0	All right. [[Pause.]] Well, deputies, deputies... [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Segovia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.12.0	Yes, President; to express that this change in time and in the order of the day really is something that is also difficult to hear, that we believe that with these maneuvers we will not solve what is happening in Catalonia and that it is not a logical way to give an answer, and surely we will have a situation again of those that the citizenry, from the outside, does not understand. But, said that, we believe that in this Parliament we are Members and Members to be able to debate and discuss everything that concerns Catalonia's citizenship, that is why they have chosen us, and we do not understand the actions of the Constitutional Court at the time of trying to prevent this debate, so we do not understand the double standard of measuring that the Government sometimes has when acting so quickly respects the resolutions of this Parliament and does not respect those of the Madrid Community Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.13.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Trying to answer some of the considerations that have been made: indeed, Mrs Segovia, you know what the capture of this presidency and of the majority of the Bureau is in relation to the debate in the Catalonian Parliament and that it is possible to talk about everything here, and that, therefore, there is no limit or censorship of the issues that are regularly completed and that, therefore, can be valued for the combination of Members and Members. We have always defended him; we defended him also today and in this case. That said, Mr Carrizosa, there is no request on the part of the Constitutional Court, we do not know. [[Widow's remorse.]] What we are told about the letters, of course, is that when there is actually any notification by the Constitutional Court, it will be transferred not only to the Bureau, but to the assembly of Members and Members, to the assembly of the chamber. I say the same for Mrs. Granados, who also did the same comment or collected the comment made by Mr. Carrizosa. We have not rejected, at these times, any specific request on this motion, which, for another group, has fulfilled all parliamentary requirements, including requests for reconsiderations that were not approved. For what Mr Rodriguez's request to change the order of the day is, I understand that it is a call to other groups. In any case, if there is this change, it will be assumed for the usual pipe, through a writing that represents the legitimate part to be able to make the change. In any case, it can be done by two parliamentary groups. In any case, if it is appropriate, then the parliamentary groups are already manifesting themselves in relation to their proposal, eh? [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres and Eva Granados Galiano ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa and Mr. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.14.0	Yes; to express ourselves at the expense of the proposal of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. Mrs. Granados...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.16.0	Yes; also to gather the proposal for a change of agenda of the Group of the People's Party. Also to ask..., because, if it is true that the Constitutional has not spoken about this concrete, it has spoken again and again expressing the illegality of this vote, which I do not need, because we are constantly debating this, but the Constitutional has shown itself to be clearly opposed to the vote on the right of self-determination. And therefore I believe that this Parliament, and you yourself, is a connoisseur of what will be put to the vote. And we would ask in this case the reports of the lletrats. And if the lletrates don't want to report verbally here, we would ask for a meeting of the Board of Spokesmen to be able to discuss this point concretely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.17.0	Well, in any case, if you ask for a doorman's meeting, we'll do the doorman's meeting, but in any case you're planning this media to do a_table, we'll also do a doorman's meeting, to value..., as long as you raise a general character debate and not specifically about this young man, who, I insist, has completed all the requirements so that it can be debated. We'll vote, anyway... [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Granados, it's been a while, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.18.0	The purpose of the Spokesman's Board was to do so before the debate and vote on the CUP motion, obviously. [[Widow's remorse.]] And so what we're asking...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.19.0	You've...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.20.0	...it's the meeting of the Spokesman's Board...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.21.0	Mrs. Granados...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.22.0	...before you do the debate about this young man.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.23.0	... respect this concrete motion, I have already told you not only what was the position of the Presidency and the Bureau, but what is the concrete case, where we have not rejected the request. You have made a general arrangement; to attend to this general arrangement, we will make a meeting of spokespersons. We'll have to... manifested, Mrs. Granados – excuse me, eh? , which I don't remember – in favor of appearance, yes? [[Pause.]] There are therefore two parliamentary groups which have called for this. We shall therefore have to vote on two amendments to the agenda. First, the request for modification of the order of the day requested, from entry, respects point 6 with point 1, and then that of the President's appearance. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Twenty-second more and we will proceed to the vote on the modification of the agenda. Say, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.24.0	Yes, Mr. President; that there has been a request here for the holding of a table and meeting of spokespersons prior to the continuation of the process of changing the agenda of motion No. 6. If we so much assume that everything is being debated in this Parliament, and so it is, why should we not debate at the table and the floor of the floor on the procedural objections that exist in order to deal with item 6, the first of the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.25.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. I already said what I did to the case respects that. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Mrs. Granados, the last intervention...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.26.0	Yes, last intervention, because if you don't respect at least the order we predicted and agreed unanimously to the Board of Spokespersons, not just the schedule, which still..., isn't it? We changed the schedule, we're gathered here at the new ones we don't know well why, because you didn't want to say officially why we're here at the new ones and not at the three. But he does ask that point 1, which is what was to be seen today at three o'clock in the afternoon, does not pass to twelve and a half, but we see it further. If you want to do what you want with this Parliament, if you don't respect the guests that we have here later, and, after their point, the point that you want to debate and that we consider not to be done, then see point 1, as was foreseen in the order of the day and that everyone decided that this was the order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.27.0	Member of the Commission. - The request for a change in the order of the day is, therefore, what we shall vote on. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Rodriguez, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.28.0	President, to point out that if there is a petition for a spokesman's meeting, which has already been made by two parliamentary groups and we add to it, three parliamentary groups, to talk about the debate on a motion that is controversial and that is intended to be substantial immediately, we believe it would be opportune for the spokesman's meeting to be held immediately before the debate on this motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.29.0	In any case, I repeat that I have already said respect this. We shall proceed to the vote on the modification of the order of the day... Pause. ) We shall vote, first, on the modification of the agenda for the sixth point by the first point and then on the request for the President to appear. We're calling it a vote. [[Pause.]] All right. So let's go to the vote on the alteration of the order of the day, which includes the change of point 6 for the first point. Yeah? The vote begins. The amendment to the agenda was adopted by 70 votes to 54, with no abstentions. Well, we now vote on the second request for a change in the agenda. The vote begins. The amendment to the agenda was adopted by 63 votes to 62, with no abstentions. [[The deputy Marc Sanglas and the sewer asked to speak.]] Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.30.0	[[There's a citizen's deputy who came in when the vote started.]] [[Widow's remorse. Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.317.0	In any case, we have not been able to prove it from the Bureau. Therefore, we will give the vote as a valid vote. In any case, we'll see after which is the request, because I understand that it's one of the ones that was asked to the Bureau and included it in the order of the day. As soon as the change in the order of the day has taken place, let's go to the sixth point, which will be seen in the first point. Before the debate, I will pass the word to Secretary Pérez, who wants to express his opinion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.31.0	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. I personally think that this motion which has been admitted to the Bureau and which has now changed the application of the agenda affects and re-emphasizes the right to self-determination, that it is an aspect which has been declared unconstitutional and null by different judgements of the Constitutional Court, concretely, 259 and 136/2018. I say this because this Member has eleven – eleven, eleven – Constitutional Court requests that he be told that this motion cannot be approved given that it contravenes these two sentences. Moreover, I think that, with the admission to court, this Parliament intends to express a clear intention to continue this process and to continue it in its attempt to achieve this procedure by means of a unilateral procedure. It is in this sense that I must also inform that, on different occasions, specifically on 11 occasions, I have been warned by the Constitutional Court of any liability, including criminal liability, including criminal liability, in which it could be called upon to ignore or evade these decisions of the Constitutional Court, the rest of the members of the Bureau. And so are the Members of Parliament. Let us therefore consider that this is what we want to try to discuss now, clearly, contrary to these sentiments; clearly, it contradicts the different notifications that we have from the Bureau and, Mr President, I say this clearly: this should not be possible to vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.32.0	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.33.0	Thank you, President. I wanted to add, in part, to what was also said by the second secretary, Mr Pérez, and I see myself as an obligation, but above all as a member of the Bureau, to remember that the Constitutional Court has warned us that in this case we are discussing a motion such as is going to be debated right now, with this cunning or so-called cunning change of the agenda – that cunning which has given so good results to the deputies of the independence majority – clearly means going against some of the resolutions that the Constitutional Court has already brought to us. And that means – and I think we all have to be clear and I think I see myself in the obligation to warn this chamber – that means that we are entering into possible responsibilities, some of them criminal, on the part of the majority members of the Bureau. And I warn you, as we have always done and have done during the last legislature, because then, later, you, some of you, come here, and dedicate yourselves to making victimism of what we have already warned. We've warned...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.34.0	Thank you, Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.35.0	...and we'll keep doing it all the time. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.36.0	Let's move on, now, to the young lady's debate. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into self-government]] [[302-00155/12]] In the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity, the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes, say'm, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.37.0	Yes, by application of the Regulation, Article 35.2. There have been more than two parliamentary groups in this House who have called for the convening of the Board of Spokesmen and, precisely, on the handling of this item on the agenda, and we call for it to be held and for compliance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.38.0	All right. Sir...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.39.0	And second question, Mr President, the lawyers, in the light of the statements of two of the members of the Bureau, should not remain silent and fulfil their duty for which the secretary has been required...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.40.0	Thank you, Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.41.0	...general of this Parliament, and say whether this is legal or not...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.42.0	Congressman, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.43.0	...the handling of this item on the agenda...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.44.0	Deputy, you don't have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.45.0	We demand the report that has been... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.46.0	It's been made clear... [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet! His request has been made clear, I also repeat what I have already said to him, it is the Board of Spokesmen, not at this time. In any case, both the Bureau, as well as the Board of Spokesmen, as the technical services of the house have manifested themselves in the handling of this young man. Lady Sirvent, when you're ready. I've got the word. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.47.0	President, I don't... I don't have time. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.48.0	Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.49.0	I don't have time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.50.0	Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.51.0	Now. Well, good morning, deputies, deputies, two convictions about this young man. First of all, for this reason, we want to give all support to all those who are involved in the action of the Peruvian Democratic Tsunami and who are resisting police repression. (Whispering) I'm sorry, but I'd like to be able to talk with a little silence and to be able to do it quietly in Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.52.0	Yes, I'm sorry, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.53.0	Thank you, President. Well, we've filed a motion that was the subject of three reviews submitted for the People's Party, for Citizens and for the PSC. This will then be followed by the consequent requests to the Bureau, the consequent incident of execution of the Constitutional Court, that Constitutional Court which, in a systematic way, suspects the social initiatives, not only of this Parliament... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Please, if they don't shut up, I won't do my intervention like this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.54.0	Quiet! [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.55.0	Okay, well...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.56.0	Quiet! Wait a minute, Congresswoman. Silences... senyora Sierra, silences. Go on, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.57.0	Look, I'm running out of time and I have five minutes, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.58.0	No, no, I stopped it, I stopped it. In the pateix.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.59.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.60.0	Go on, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.61.0	Well, in the review that Ciutadans presented, the People's Party and the PSC challenged the first point of our motion from which we read the content in its literality. But the PSC has been the one who's been the most out there, the one who's challenged most of this young man's joint. They have done the least evil, the "investigate us that, if not, the extreme right will come, the ones that stand as the actors of the consensus and the flag of the dialog, of coexistence and of concord. The same people who, when they say "dialeg", what they really want to say is "renunciation and humiliation on the part of the people to their legitimate political objectives." « Dialeg, to your mouth, lords of the PSC, is an absolutely empty word of content. And when we give them, frankly, "Dialeg, you still talk about humiliation and resignation. To Parliament, censor. Today Mr Pérez, representing the PSC Bureau, said: "This should not be able to vote. What shouldn't be able to vote? Exactly, that the Parliament of Catalonia expresses its willingness to exercise concretely the right to self-determination and its willingness to respect the will of the Catalan people. Is that what you shouldn't be able to vote for in the Catalonian Parliament? Mirin, you, too, with the judiciary, manipulate the crime of terrorism. It seems incredible to us that Catalonia in Comú is participating in this farce. [[Widow's remorse.]] Take the people who are mobilized, decorate and honor police rape...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.62.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.63.0	...and keep the silence complicit with the street facsimile. I don't want to talk to you like this isn't going to happen to you. The PSC is also responsible for this situation and leaves, stop putting us in the same bag as those who exterminate rights or impose their project based on the culture of rock and por. Today we have listened to the representative of Ciutadans, of the Bureau, threatening, saying to watch what they say, watch what they say because they would end up like their companions who are also in prison. [[Widow's remorse.]] We don't want to impose anything on anyone, you know perfectly well... [[You're saying, "No!]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.64.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.65.0	We simply want to respect the popular will and that it is the people who decide their future. We don't mind the people taking their own decisions, in change, you, who are refusing to admit to bringing these parliamentary initiations, who are refusing to admit to bringing simply that the exercise of the right to self-determination is placed on the table, what is it that does them for? This state just hangs on the por, on the threat and on the repression. And, ladies and gentlemen, a state that can only hold on to repression and persecution is not right. You do want to impose something on us, you want to impose your rao d'état on us, your rao d'état on thousands of people who have decided to go out in the street and have decided to say enough. Neither threats, nor undertakings, nor any type of police violence will keep us either submissive or silent. Before their censorship, we reprimand and reprimand as many times as any corrupt monarchy. We repeat and reiterate our willingness to exercise the right to self-determination. Let us repeat and reiterate, as many times as we say, that sovereignty is right in the Catalan people. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I, yeah...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.66.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.67.0	... in the Catalan people as the subject constitute. Miri, president, I think I've talked, like, three minutes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.68.0	No, I've stopped time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.69.0	...but well...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.70.0	I've stopped her time, Congresswoman. So...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.71.0	Well, we'll take a look at this later. [[Rialles.]] Well, we finally introduced...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.72.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.73.0	...a young man who demands the reprobation of Mr. Buch, who does so by the president, and who puts on the table social measures to donate out to popular demands...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.74.0	Time's up, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.75.0	...which is not doing this... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.76.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Munell has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.77.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Well, in this case our group, as it cannot be in any other way and as it has already been on multiple occasions in this Parliament, so at 1 point we will vote in favour. We are in defense of the right to self-determination of peoples, it is a fundamental right, it is recognized to the letter of the United Nations, and therefore we do not understand as a constitution of a country that supports the Charter of Human Rights can deny this right to self-determination. On the other hand, Parliament is the place where it is spoken and, therefore, we defend that there can be talk of everything, of everything that concerns citizens; among them, the right to self-determination. The House therefore has the right to speak and the Members of Parliament speak, and we do not understand, in any case, that there is a constitutional court that is set up over parliamentarianism and forbids us from talking about certain issues or forbids the Bureau to deal with issues. That is why we denounce it publicly, loudly and internationally. Parliament is the place where it is spoken, it is spoken to that which concerns the citizenry, and the citizenry of Catalonia is concerned about the right to self-determination, as we are seeing in the streets or we are seeing today itself, or yesterday on the evening, at Jonquera. Therefore, we will continue to defend that it is spoken, we will continue to defend our right to self-determination and we will continue to defend that the citizenry can express, with the strength of its vote, what it wants [[applause]] ...with the power of the vote, the democratic power of the vote, which can decide which is the best future for the citizen. Therefore, we will continue to defend this and, as we say before, we condemn that it is persecuting people for their political ideas, eh? , or that is judicialistic politics. That said, at the end of the day, we will vote as a whole if we don't. Unfortunately... we have tried, therefore, to make some papers... we also appreciate the good disposition, therefore, of the Subgroup of the CUP in some of the papers we have put in. But we have looked at it all over again, together with the companies that we support the Government, the companies of the Republic Group, and so what we see is that there are some points that are reiterated by other agreements that have already passed through Parliament and that, therefore, it is to sweep different points, in some of which we could go into the detail of giving support, in some of which we should go into the detail of presenting some papers, as we have done and have not accepted each other, but in any case many of them are repeated, huh? I may, for example, have some cases... For example, we are talking about amnesty for reprisals; it has already been discussed in this Parliament, so with 68 votes in favour, 58 against, that "the Parliament is committed to working to find solutions to achieve freedom of convictions by means of amnesty, as part of the political solution to the political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State. This was discussed in Parliament and approved. Among the points that have been approved, also..., is that the amnesty must also "recognize and repair the damage caused to the persons who have been retaliated, the exercise of rights and of the rights collected, to the families and to the collection of which they are a party, and establish measures in relation to all those responsible for the repression and violation of the rights of the State, specifically for the violation of the right to freedom of expression, assembly, violence against the civilian population, the violation of the right of direct and indirect representation, detentions and illegal undertakings and, ultimately, the violation of any right of citizens to live in their own country. This was approved, as we say, here in Parliament. So, re-vote what has already been approved in the framework of other things that we wouldn't agree with... so we decided to vote that not all folded, right? Also the withdrawal of the police and state military bodies, it has passed also in this Parliament. In fact, Resolution 546/XII already urges, therefore, "the withdrawal from Catalonia of all the effects of the Civil Guard, which has been openly shown to be a political search police, focused on pursuing certain political and social collections, completely ending in time to ensure the safety of citizens. So you didn't hear about the same thing again, did you? In the same case, the Foreign Law: the Parliament has also voted repeatedly on different proposals for a resolution in the general policy debate, to require the Government of the State to repeal the Foreign Law, to make the necessary management before the Government of the State to repeal the Foreign Law, to serve the representatives of the Congress of the State to repeal the Foreign Law, etc. So, we're back to being on a repetitive proposal, huh? As we say, some of us would vote yes and others would not... but in any case, we would vote no more than in the combination of these proposals. So let's repeat at this point 1 to give support to our country's self-determination. All the more, thank you very much and good morning. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.78.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú - Podemos, it is the turn of Congressman Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.79.0	Thank you very much, President. Members and deputies, this Member, as you all know, has been appealed to the Constitutional Court by the Government of Pedro Sánchez, because it includes an explicit claim to the right or exercise of the right to decide. But I think that, in the light of the election results of the past week, we should start all kinds of pleas to make other kinds of reflections and try to bring other types of legal initiatives to this Parliament as well. Seeing the two governing parties and the governing party in the Spanish State celebrate their respective electoral victories this week and seeing 'we are here unable to debate with normality a lot of the futile things that are some electoral victories and the setbacks that we have ahead of us. [[Some applause.]] And I'd like to start by appreciating this young man, let's face it, for the fact that he's gone over. Whether there are independent parties, whether you are the majority or not, that in this chamber is in favour of the right to decide in a declaratory motion, that it has no legal effects and only seeks to claim a political position, to bring it to Parliament and subdue it to debate and vote, is something that should be constitutional in this country, and that does not show a political abnormality. Does this majority of Parliament have the right to unilaterally declare independence? It does not give right to unilaterally declare independence. Donate right to illegalize political parties, how did you vote Ciutadans, the PP and Vox at the Madrid assembly? It does not give right, a parliamentary majority, to illegalize political parties. But what he does give right is to be able to table a parliamentary debate in a parliament, I would give right even if they were not an absolute majority in this Parliament. Because in this Parliament you have the right to make political intentions and to put them to the vote. And in view of the results, comrades and companions of the Socialist Party, I think that we should also assume a very simple thing: the strategy of permanent judicialization of the conflict, as much as it passes to the Parliament as it passed to the previous legislature, does not work; it gives to the reaction and is unable to unlock the political situation in this country. We said it months ago and we repeat it today: the challenge of being a governing party in Spain or two governing parties in Catalonia is not to be a blocking majority or a minority of resistance; it is to be a leading majority, it is to be a political unlocking of this country and to take the challenge of building a different future. [[Greetings.]] And it's more than saying that Parliament can't debate the right to decide or the monarchy, but it is about illegalizing political parties, not only is it reactionary, but it's completely absurd. In a parliament everything must be voted on, including that which does not appear in the Constitution, because the Constitution is fully reformable and should be fully reformable from the debates that are generated, among other institutions, in the Parliament of Catalonia. The constitutional order is not to go to the square of Columbus to cry"Long live the king, live the order and the law; it is the requirement to donate institutional solutions to the great reptes that the country has. There can be no constitutional order if the President of the State is unable to raise the phone to the President of the Generality. That, of course, has to do with constitutional order in this country. And, said that, only two more things I think it's important that we put on the table today. I believe that the appeal, today, to the Constitutional Court and the fact that I think of the Bureau's legal responsibilities to allow a debate today is unfair – is unfair. But today, when we are in the pre-election arena, I would also appeal to the responsibility of everyone not to have the Bureau of Parliament again, despite the injustices, tensions and legal responsibilities that should not be brought to his attention. And that means we have to take over responsibility too. In the pre-election campaign it is not all going, against Torrent it is not all going and against the Bureau of Parliament it is not all going, because we should already assume the responsibilities they hold over the lives of the people the party attitudes we see many times in this Parliament. [[Greetings.]] And lastly, and because the resignation of Councillor Buch also appears in the motion, or that the government ceases, I think we should also make a second reflection: a government that bases its legitimacy on the defense of rights and freedoms in this country cannot act as we saw it acting during this month in Catalonia. Every country in the world has stages of conflict, but in no country in the world is it eligible to see some police action that we have seen in this country. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] A few years ago he resigned an interior advisor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.80.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.81.0	... – and with this I finish, Mr President – in this country to listen to a citizen in a demonstration. We're wearing four and we're still waiting for someone to quit. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.82.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Ignacio Martín has the word now. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Silence, deputies... deputies... whenever you want, deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.83.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Well, today I am going to speak, in a parliamentary intervention, with indignation, with concern and with sadness, because today in Catalonia the institutions of self-government have probably deteriorated irreversibly, probably irreversible democracy and probably irreversible coexistence between Catalans. The question is – and it is addressed to you, honourable Members, but also and above all to the chairman of this chamber, Mr Torrent –: Mr Torrent, do you think you are above the law? Do you believe that you are above our rights and freedoms, above all the citizens of Catalonia? Do you think it's something like a Sun King, who can do what gives you the real will, when it comes to your liking, and go through absolutely wherever you want the laws, the Constitution, the Statute of autonomy? It seems to me that really [[applause]] ...you are reaching a point, I insist, probably irreversible in the degradation of democracy in Catalonia. The rulers, the politicians, are not above the laws; on the contrary, we are, like the rest of the citizens, subject to the principle of legality, because that is what guarantees our rights and freedoms as citizens. Otherwise, this would be the law of the jungle. If Mr Torrent's authoritarian attitude were to be practiced by all the deputies and all the citizens of Catalonia, this would not be governable, it would be an anarchic society, a society without law, a society without any respect for the freedoms and rights of all, probably what the CUP, Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana want; but one hopes that in Catalonia it will still be possible to return to democratic normality and get out of this populist process that has led us to a truly unsustainable situation. I would like to read to you, Mr Torrent, a few sentences from the last requirements of the Constitutional Court which you may not have in mind but which I believe are fundamental in any democratic state of law: "The constitutional state," says the Constitutional Court, "requires that any decision of the power be subject to the Constitution without any free spaces of the Constitution or areas of immunity from it for the public authorities, and I add: "of impunity against it. You can't do what you really want in a parliament. Moreover, they can discuss and dialogue about everything they want, they can discuss and dialogue about the secession of Catalonia, as we have done nothing else in the last seven years... It is that, really, do not fool the citizens of Catalonia by saying that we, the constitutionalists, try to prevent a debate on a particular issue. On the contrary: we have been, I insist, seven years in which you prevent anything else from being debated in this Parliament, you prevent health debate, you prevent education from being debated, you prevent social services from being debated, you only talk about your identity obsession for separating Catalonia from the rest of Spain, and you intend to say that someone is trying to prohibit you from talking about it? Please stop fooling the citizens of Catalonia. It is a true act that you say that in this Parliament we cannot talk about the right to self-determination, which, of course, does not attend Catalonia. It was said by the deputy of Junts per Catalunya that it seemed incredible to him that a state that had signed the Charter of Rights or the Charter of the United Nations did not provide in its constitution for the right to self-determination. Well, listen, look at the constitutions of the vast majority of the states of the world – perhaps except that of Ethiopia – that will tell you exactly the same thing: that of France, that of Italy, that of the United States, that of Germany... [[Widow's remorse.]] All the countries of the world! [[Greetings.]] It's just that, really, I insist: you're taking advantage of the citizens of Catalonia, the non-nationalists and the nationalists; you're taking advantage of them, you're lying to them, you're cheating on them, you're telling them that something is possible when you know positively that it's impossible. It is impossible because it is not provided for in the Constitution, because it is not provided for in the Statute of autonomy that you jump each two by three, because of course there is no majority in Catalonia in favor of your thesis – that is already a secondary argument, but also important – because of course the whole of Spain is not in favour of separating Catalonia from the rest of Spain. What are you talking about? You are systematically deceiving the citizens of Catalonia. Please stop condemning us, the Catalans, to the eternal return of the same, you laugh at Zarathustra; you are constantly talking about the same, systematically, for seven years. It's really unfortunate. I sincerely believe that any citizen of Catalonia who sees this debate..., if I have heard this morning on TV3, when in principle we did not yet know the change of the agenda, who were already telling us that there was a change of the agenda, we already knew it from TV3; therefore, the way you overstep the rights and freedoms of the citizens of Catalonia cries out to heaven. And I tell you that, in modern Europe, since after the Second World War, it had not been seen as clearly as in Catalonia. It's very dangerous what you're doing. Finally, I wanted to end a comment to the gentlemen of the CUP. They say you, take out your breasts for what you did yesterday in the Jonquera. Look, what you've done yesterday in the Jonquera, like so many other things you've been doing in the last few weeks, has resulted in 15_million losses for truckers from all over Spain, for truckers travelling our roads, many of them, of course, Catalans. You take out the chest of being destroying Catalonia, you take out the chest of being damaging the Catalan economy and the material interests of the citizens of Catalonia as a whole. Please stop this nonsense, stop condemning us to the eternal return of the same for the past seven years. Thank you, Members. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.84.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Ernest Maragall has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.85.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Well, other times we're in this situation of a debate under control, under threat, a debate under a censorship attempt that we're naturally forced to reject and oppose - there's all our strength and all our rights, right? Somehow – I just listened to the company of the Ciutadans Group – it seems to me that the facts and the votes of this diumenge clearly explain who can speak on behalf of the majority of citizens of Catalonia and who better not to do it or not to intend to do it. It seems that things have remained... and the democratic decision has left things in their place. We are here and we are trying to do politics in this Parliament, despite you; despite the PSC, despite the Citizens, despite the People's Party [[remorse of the voice]] And now also, by the way, despite Vox, naturally. Let's be clear, fascism won't fit into our institutions. [[remorse of the voice]] The republic we want can't afford...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.86.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.87.0	The fascism is being fought...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.88.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.89.0	... in the fascism, in the fascism, you don't buy it or half a speech, as some of the formations that you represent continue to do and do. Nor should we have the slightest interference of a court, of the Constitutional Court, in our deliberations and in our rights. Here's to talk, to discuss what I came up with. That's what we're doing, that's what we're still doing. And precisely because we need to debate, because we need to confront ideas, despite the differences we may have, we need to be clear. And today I want to discuss with the companies, friends and friends of the Popular Unity Candidature, the CUPs, right? This debate could, of course, already be that of the joint motion that the three forces agreed to deal with in this Parliament. And if it isn't, it's because you, the CUP's gentlemen, opposed it from the point of view of the emergency procedure, that you would have allowed us to hold the joint debate today, the debate let's really tell us about this motion and this situation. [[Greetings.]] This is where we'd be right now. And I want to explain why, therefore, we cannot give support to the conjunction of this motion; naturally, except for the first point, which we share, which we fully share, in the deep sense of which the defence of the right of self-determination represents. And naturally we are in favor of the amnesty that is a central point of our political position, and so let me say clearly, one thing is to defend a cause, one cause that some say is utopian, but that it is a vulgar, conscious and shared utopia, that it is the utopia of..., because it is a conscious, insoleable, possible utopia, that it is the independence that you and we defend, and another thing is to live by looks, another thing is to live by the expression of desires and hoping that in a more or less miraculous way it is reality. Or, even worse, to make us believe that we can reach a point where, if we ever get there, we will prove that it is not there and inadequate. And that's what your young lady is so obvious, even though the music can sound good and we can include sharing it in some of her proposals. Who wouldn't want to live in a world without a cop or a mortgage? Who wouldn't want you to have no problem with the toilet waiting lists? Anyway, all these questions that are very obvious. It is clear that we must pursue objectives of the greatest transformative ambition, it is what the Government is doing that we represent, but to govern also means, believe me, to assume that there is not enough – there is not enough – to say very high and very strong what we want or how things should be. And with this I do not discharge any of his responsibility, but I add this point of awareness of what governability means. That's what we're going to do, yes, hard to get through the investigation commissions on the squadrons and the National Police and the Civil Guard, as far as we can, at the Congress of Deputies, that's exactly what we're going to do, but we can't just repeat what we're done here, already, with our own investigation committee. And we can't identify the problems of education with university taxes, because it's much wider, and we need to talk about zero-three and many other things. And we cannot fall into the storm of the monopoly of general and universal public services, which is a model that returns us to periods and experiences that are already obsolete and past. And it's obvious that some of the things you say are different from what they do when they're running together, in this land, precisely, from the privatization of services or the management of public services. So here are all the reasons, all the arguments to vote against the conjunction of this young man (sounds the acoustic signal indicating that the speaking time has expired), to vote in favour of the point of self-determination, naturally...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.90.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.91.0	They will always find us in the defense of independence, always in the defense of the better quality of life of the citizens. The Republic will be right and free, let's get to work, if it can be together...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.92.0	Time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.93.0	...let's pull forward, here and in Madrid, now, doing politics, doing politics, really, with you, together with you... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.94.0	Congressman... [[Pause.]] Thank you. [[Greetings.]] Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for Progress, Mr Ferran Pedret has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.95.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... "We do not want to impose anything on anyone, said the spokesman of the CUP, of the Subgroup of the CUP. I do not know whether I can formally formulate the proposal, but I would recommend that we enter it in the marble that presides over us, in this frontispice, we should not forget the days of September 6th and 7th, or that of October 27th, in which a majority of Parliamentarians, attributing a legitimacy, some competitions, some powers of which he clearly did not have, tried to impose on the half of the citizenship of this country, probably more than half of the citizenship of this country, the creation of an independent Catalan state. In order not to impose anything on anyone, there is no intention of repealing the Constitution, the Statute [[applause]] and create a new brand of coexistence with a majority that has not been enough to modify an article in the Catalonian electoral law or to appoint a new syndic of hardships. And the deputy Lucas Ferro, of En Comú Podemos, in one part of his intervention, said something that we had already highlighted also from the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, also from, in his day, the spokespersons of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, a question that seems essential to us, that a majority can't do it all – a majority can't do it all. But neither in this Parliament nor in this Parliament; it is not a question, let us say, of the distribution of competences and that some can understand that it is that what is lacking in this Parliament is a major sovereign to be able to decide everything, it is that no parliament, nor the Spanish Parliament, can decide everything, nor clearly not that of the Madrid Assembly can decide everything. The question is not whether you can debate and vote on the question of self-determination as a wish, as a political option, as a claim; it is whether you can claim to exercise concretely the right to self-determination in your external future and thus create an independent Catalan state. That's what's at stake. Or what could be at issue, which is whether the Madrid Assembly has assumed that it wants it – of which it must certainly study whether it is to be appealed and declared unconstitutional and null – if it has claimed that it has a legal effect..., because the one that passed here on 6 and 7 September and 27 October and the one that seems to us to say this motion for a resolution is that it is intended to exercise concretely, and therefore to give it a concrete legal effect. And so that's what can't – it can't –; it can't because a majority can't do it all, because there has to be a mutual recognition of the interlocutors as valid interlocutors, and, two, as at least the establishment of a common reference framework in a democratic system, as at least respect for what is said in the Anglo-Saxon law, the rule of law, the rule of law, the rule of law, the principle of subjection of public powers to the legal order, to the conjunction of the legal order. If one of the parties is considered to be above and beyond the obligation to comply with the Statute, with the Constitution, with the Rules of Parliament, it is very difficult to establish a political dialogue, which is extremely difficult, because there is obviously an absolute inequality for what it does to capture on the one hand and on the other in the dialogue. And we are talking about the question of the right to self-determination, because I have introduced a question that seems to me to be widely recognized already in international doctrine, which is the difference between the internal and the external face of the right to self-determination. All the peoples of the world hold the right to self-determination. Catalans and Catalans, too, obviously. But the international right..., and we can cite, for example, United Nations Resolution 2625, but on many other occasions it has repeated itself..., those who are holders of the right to self-determination in its external face, is to say, for which it makes it possible to exercise a secession or to claim a federation or any other of the formulas that you decide, are those people who are submissive and do not have the right to govern themselves. And we, like Catalans and Catalans, govern ourselves. Not only with local autonomy, with the autonomy we have with the Autonomous Community of Catalonia or, as we hope in a future, with a federal state, but we also form all Catalans and Catalans part of the body that decides on all the political decisions that are taken in Spain and also in Europe, huh? Because what Resolution 2625 says – and I finish – is that no provision of previous paragraphs on the right to self-determination will be understood in the sense that it authorizes or encourages any action aimed at completely or partially suppressing the territorial integrity of independent sovereign states that is conducted in conformity with the principle of equal rights and free determination of the people described above and are therefore endowed with a government representing the totality of the people pertaining to the territory, without distinction by reason of race, belief or colour. And this is obviously the situation of Catalans and Catalans, who participate in the general elections, in the formation of the governments of Spain and obviously we also have recognized political autonomy in the Constitution and obviously also local autonomy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.96.0	Thank you, Congressman. There is the word ara, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.97.0	Thank you very much, President. In the motion that we discuss the essential is not the content – it is the same procedural word of mouth as ever; they say they don't let them talk about the subjects, but seven years ago they don't do anything else –; the essential was whether there would be, or not, a flagrant disobedience from Mr Torrent. It seemed that yes, it seemed that we would attend a heroic disobedience of Mr Torrent, but by advancing to the desperate vote before the Constitutional Court finally pronounces itself, disobedience remains today in a pinch of nun. The expression is relevant, because the pinch of a nun twists the flesh, can be punctually more painful, but leaves no trace, which is what Mr Torrent claims. I have deliberately avoided using the expression in Catalan because it is strictly not « nun pessic, but it would be « nun's pet – indeed, exquisite piece of traditional Catalan pastry – but that would have forced me to say in the parliamentary seat: « Lord Torrent, has made a nun's pet. And in view of the easy trigger with which I am driving out of this Parliament, I would have had some irresolvable problem. In short, this debate is a real waste of time that again discredits this Parliament, without any epic, here there is neither heroism nor progress towards independence, the only thing there is the usual, trampling on the rights and freedoms of the opposition and of the millions of people we represent, which is something else of the Catalan population. And it seems that you only aspire to it; neither epic nor heroic, simply trample on half the Catalan population. And today they have done so again, in an operation of parliamentary abuse, which will provoke the decision of our group not to vote on this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.98.0	Thank you, Congressman. To position herself on the papers has the word the deputy lady Maria Sirvent. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.99.0	Mirin, may censorship not cover up, deputies and deputies, this shame of voting for Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia. You will vote in favour of the right to self-determination, but you will vote against all points that talk about waiting lists – perhaps you are not interested in waiting lists because you have covered sanitation –, about a minimum wage of EUR 1000_200 or about public and quality university. They will vote against the imposition of repression, to halt the collaboration of the Mossos d'Esquadra with the National Police. They shall vote against publicly recognising that no internal protocols or instructions have been complied with on the part of the Squadron Mosses. They will vote against repairing all the damage caused to victims of police rape. They will vote against reviewing police actions. What will you do? Will they keep talking about self-determination? Try to collaborate with repression. We make it clear to you, we don't want any unity with you. Try to apply antisocial policies, try to sell 'in the country, try to continue privatizing. We're talking about a sham plan against male-based rape, is that also a utopia for you? Forty-four hours have been worked, forty-four hours that have not passed the elections to bid farewell to all their electoral commitments to the people. Mirin, so much tie and so little shame.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.100.0	Let's move on to... we've called for a vote, we'll move on to a vote. Any separate voting petitions? [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Say, Mr. Carrizosa; thirty_seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.101.0	I am informed that there is notice from the Constitutional Court. I wanted to know if this is true or not.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.102.0	We haven't... we haven't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.103.0	If it has arrived..., if it has already arrived in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.104.0	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.105.0	Is there consistency on the part of counsel?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.106.0	No, no, He expressed it to me now. We have not rejected any notification. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. [[Pause and remorse of the voice.]] Any separate voting petitions? [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am... [[Pause.]] Mrs. Granados, 30 seconds. [[Pause and remorse of the voice.]] MPs, if you're going to abandon the hemicle, you're going to do it neatly and quietly, please. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet. Mrs. Granados, say.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.107.0	We ask for a separate vote from point 1.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.108.0	Point one, all right. Let's move on, then, to vote point one. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Segovia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.109.0	Yeah. Separate vote from points 1, 2a, b and c, which can be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.110.0	All right. So we vote first, first place, point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 61 votes in favour, against, 8 abstentions, and 21 Members and Members present who have not voted. Are we voting points 2a, 2.b and 2.c now? 2a, 2.b and 2.c. The vote begins. Points 2a, 2.b and 2.c have been rejected by 3 votes in favour, 73 against, 10 abstentions, and 4 Members or Members present who have not voted. And now we're going to vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 71 against and 3 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the economic effects of the political situation in Catalonia]] [[302-00151/12]] Let us now turn to the second point of the order of the day, which is the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the economic effects of the political situation in Catalonia, a motion presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. In order to present it, Congresswoman Alicia Romero has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.111.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Well, as the President said, this is the question that my parliamentary group raised with the Government in relation to the Aldaruls, public disorder, which was a few days ago not only in Barcelona but in different cities in Catalonia. We give it the day we do it out of respect... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.112.0	Excuse me, Congresswoman, excuse me, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, please go in and out of the Chamber in silence, without disturbing the session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.113.0	He said that at that time we did this – and so we said – from respect, responsibility and concern for some facts that obviously have an impact and have consequences. When the consequences are the violence and the heavy lack of security towards the citizens or the economic consequences in our business fabric, then it would obviously be very forceful to condemn the violence and do so in a blunt way. We haven't, we haven't detected, we haven't detected in all these days – weeks, already – a clear and strong condemnation on the part of the government, nor on the part of President Torra. And we think it can't be you, it can't be you against those who use mechanisms that aren't democratic to defend their ideas. Obviously, everyone can defend themselves, only if they are lacking, legitimately, from their ideas, but not using violence, because violence does not bring us anywhere, and we have examples all over the world that they would say and exemplify what we are saying. Obviously, and we also say so, the right to protest and protest must be guaranteed, it is recognized in our legal order. And so do many of our citizens, mostly in a peaceful way. They do it, for example, after, it's true, many, thousands, after the process, but they do it many of our citizens when they complain about pensions, about details in education or health care. I mean, it's a use that's done in a very normal way. And it has to be that way, and we have to keep it, and we have to make sure that these fundamental rights can exist in our society. But when, I mean, it doesn't do that and it causes insecurity and it causes violence and it causes economic consequences, so it's like putting up with it. And so our young man is a bit of a back to basic, it's to say, to get back to the essential, to ask things that would seem like a mature democracy like ours to be guaranteed, would have to be in a very assumed way, but it's not that, unfortunately it's not that. And so, our young lady has tried to gather four or five very clear things, because we try among all we can to apply them. Unfortunately, I think that this young man will not be approved and in pain, because, as I said, he goes back to basic, to the essential, is to say, that we reject the violence as a tool to achieve political ends – I think that in this we should be able to agree – that we compromise all that we are working here for coexistence. That we have a problem with living together, that we see here, unfortunately, quite often, and we have seen it a while ago. Therefore, we must all conjure ourselves up to work for this coexistence, here and outside, civic coexistence. Also an important thing connected to the economic consequences, which often passes through the street and which we are not able to condemn with force, therefore, is to guarantee political stability and legal certainty. Our economy is very portugal, ours and all, it is very portugal and we need to be politically stable, generate certainty and legal certainty and lay down a few conditions. If we don't do this – infrastructure, talent, human capital... – it's hard for our economy to continue to grow, and more so at a time when this is slowing down. It's important that we all conjure up because our economy is still growing. If there are demonstrations that last for more than twenty-four hours one of the most important lives that connect countries with France, Spain, therefore, surely this will not be possible. What's going on in Jonquera today, so we should avoid all of them. Everyone can manifest themselves, but if that creates a very important burden in the other or in the public I think that someone should think about it, and in any case, he should condemn himself. We give these three things very clear to the young man, that we think everyone should gather. And then we ask the Government of the Generality for two things: one, to summon all the parliamentary groups to share and reflect on the political situation that is going on in Catalonia after the sentence, something as basic as that. At all gatherings, when one thing happens, municipal groups are gathered; why can't President Torra gather parliamentary groups here? Yeah, he's asking the state government to talk to him, but why don't they talk to the parliamentary groups here? So we ask him for a meeting, we don't know what the groups that support the government will do, we expect them to vote favorably, because one of the hardest problems Catalonia has is in Catalonia. Between us we have to find the agreement, between us we have to find those points in common that make us strong, not always think about the other, if the problems probably have them here. Then, what we ask is to start with the government of the state, so an institutional and loyal relationship that leads us to solve many of the problems we have, with the debt, with the infrastructure. If we are aware that the State gives us things, but let's work it out of loyalty. And for another band, just to finish, I wanted to say that..., I wanted to thank the groups for the work they have done, because many have submitted papers, but it is true that between there has been an electoral campaign, there has been elections, we have certainly not been able to work them as we liked them, but in any case, I appreciate the dedication that this young man has made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.114.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word in the first place the deputy Susanna Segovia, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.115.0	Well, good morning. Thank you very much. From this young man we can more or less figure out what he's worried about, at the PSC, the last few weeks, right? They are clearly concerned about the aldaruls, the cream of contents, the panets of the square Urquinaona, now the heights to the highway near the Jonquera, curiously I do not know what they would say when there were general waves in this country, there were pickets that also cut and altered a little order. [[Some applause.]] They're worried about the rape, they say. What doesn't worry them? They don't care about the excessive use of force on the part of national police and squad movements; they don't care about rubber balls; they don't care about the lost four eyes; they don't care about the hundreds of wounds and the drawings of detainees. They're not worried about all this. They are also concerned about the reports of Amnesty International, of Iraq and other human rights organizations, which report that they are still failing to carry out the duties of identifying agents and that they are violating the protocols and that they are not complying with the protocols. In addition, they accepted Ciutadans's message to reject the violence as a protest. So yes, violence is not the solution; it can always condemn violence. But also, when the PSC will understand why the reaction given to the sentence was given? Why are there thousands of young people in the street? Some did, some cremated contents and threw stones, but thousands, thousands, didn't do it, they just asked for sweat and squeezing. That too should worry us: why all these people are on the street and why we are not giving them an answer. And no, it's not just because we're going through an absurd process, because we've promised ourselves that we'll have an independence and a dream republic in the middle, because there's been a big mistake on the part of the process parties, around the process, that it's had disastrous consequences for everyone in Catalonia and also in the Spanish State, especially for the political leaders. It's not just this frustration, but it's also the violence of not having a decent job, the violence of not having a secure future, the violence of not being able to have a decent job with a decent salary, for a job reform that the PSOE considers to be little effective to repeal – first I promise and then I say that it's not effective to do it. Also the violence of not being able to pay for a habitat, of not being able to pay for an lloger, of a bottle of lloger that is putting the right to habitat in the hands of speculators and returning sources. And what does Mr. Sanchez do? When he goes to Barcelona and he's good, and he was the Left and the Dial and I don't know what, I promise Mayor Colau that the loguers will be regulated. And when the time comes to do it, no, they don't. And who are they meeting with? With the direction of Blackstone, to the United States. This is the regulation and right of the PSOE habitation. This structural and economic violence is what Catalonia and also Spain have, in the situation in which it has. This is the one that is hurting the image of Catalonia and Spain outside, this structural violence, this structural precariousness. Let us hope that there will also be no chance of condemning this violence and of making it a front with policies of valiant, valiant left-handed, not just word. In Catalonia there is no problem of civic coexistence, in Catalonia there is a problem of inequality, of structural inequality, where the most money they have has continued to have more money and where every time there are more people than not up to the end of the month. This is the problem facing Catalonia and Spain. Surely, is the PSC and the PSOE also compromised to face this inequality with brave left-wing policies? It's compromised, not just word but fets? They compromise the PSC and the PSOE to be able to sleep in peace, and there is a government with Uniteds - can we do these policies, even if this means that maybe the Botín, the Blackstone and others will not sleep in peace? Is PSC compromising this? The PSC says he's worried about the honest dialog, but what we end up seeing is that when you do the reviews because this honest dialog is true, so, well, there's no time to look at them - and there's no time to accept them either. It's not us who defend Mr. Torra's delusions, absolutely. In fact, we've asked many times that it can't be in front of government, but don't take his phone if it's the synonym of an honest or sincere dialog. He is also asked for an honest and sincere relationship between the governments of Catalonia and Spain, which leaves the band and rejects all unilateral and illegal initiatives. All right, but they didn't want to accept that the threats to suspend Catalonia's self-government and the defense of Catalonia's self-government as a solution to the political conflict are also dropped. They didn't want to accept that. What kind of honest and honest dialogue are we talking about? What paper do you want to play the PSC in the resolution of this conflict? Follow the judicial process? Continue to use the Constitutional to prevent debates? Maybe it's the PSC that's supposed to rethink which paper plays in the dialog.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.116.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of the Republican Group, and the words of Mr Bernat Solé.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.117.0	Well, good morning to everyone, vice president... deputies, deputies..., mrs. Romero, it is obvious that if today we write this motion that you present, of course the writer different from what they did before the elections, a motion written in the middle of an electoral campaign in which you promised dialogue, civic coexistence and political stability and which resulted in the growth of well-hung xenophobic options in this spirit of dialogue and coexistence and in one of the most unstable political situations in Spain in the past 20 years. Yes, gentlemen of the PSC, that's what they've brought their choices to, and now they're not looking at any other place, because you're responsible. They also talk about rebuilding the aldaruls, public disorder and violence on the road to the last few days, when it is still time for the parliamentary group to repudiate frontally the charges that the people of Catalonia suffered two years ago during the celebration of the referendum. Where were you that day? Were we, you, during the later days? Do you remember the fucking shots, the indiscriminate attacks and the crackdowns on the schools that were supposed to be occupied by our children? Or is it that in that case the violence was justified for you? Is it that the political and social attention of that day wasn't enough to reject it, as we're being asked to do now? Of course, what concerns you is the image and reputation of the country, image and reputation at what price? To what extent are you prepared to secure this image? Have you not wondered about the image and reputation of a government of the State that has held us two years in a state of continuous latency? Have you not wondered about the image and reputation of certain security features that have been covered by international newspapers? Have they not wondered, you, about the image and reputation of a president who preferred to play the spell at the polls before he sat down with the Catalan parties? And, in addition, they have the bar to ask the Parliament to guarantee the recovery of civic coexistence. Are they not civic, for you, the multitudes manifestations of each Day? Are they not civic for you the countless offers of dialogue and negotiation that the Catalan government has put on the table without ever getting any type of response? Of course, as much as they've been searching for these years, they haven't found any evidence of inciivism or violence, they've wanted to use this economic argument to try to impose their model on us. Certainly, a model also in crisis, where a few hours before the elections the Federal Spain that for many years captivated its electoral program seemed to have fallen into the abyss, for a few moments. Far from the truth, despite the turbulence of the international economy, the Catalan economy continues to advance at a good pace, and I do not say so, but the data are telling us. U, in 2018 the Catalan economy grew into a 2.6_percent of gross domestic product. Since 2013, the fifth year of growth. This increase continues to exceed the euro area by 1.9_per_cent. Two. Tot just five years ago from the first consultation on the future politics of Catalonia. In these five years Catalonia has enjoyed a growth over the euro area, a growth that has allowed us to redraw the product model that led us to the economic crisis. If the expansion from 2001 to 2007 brought us into crisis with a model based on the real estate cylinder and excessively dependent on domestic demand, it is from 2014 that the pattern of growth is more balanced and sustainable, with a significant activity of the industrial sector and a great boost of external demand. So when do you tell us that the process has harmed the economy, on what basis? Is it a camp job, an intuition, or is it simply an electoral sluggish without a political project? Finally, they talk about legal certainty. What legal certainty? What allows a Constitutional Court to annul laws so much necessary for our people as the energy poor? What allows the law of effective equality between men and women to be repealed? The one that allows people to be arrested without a defence guarantee? What allows a Supreme Court to sentence our political and social representatives to a hundred years' imprisonment for allowing them to exercise the right to vote? Miri, Mrs. Romero, I've already announced that we will withdraw the message at point 3 and vote against the entire motion. [[Widow's remorse.]] I've already told you once... - please, let me finish? "I told them once, and I said again: I found them missing. I found them missing in many dialog boxes; I found them missing by defending individual and collective rights and freedoms; I found them missing by claiming the same one they claimed during the franchise. In fact, I found them missing because you're no longer there, you decided to leave the empty dial box and now you're finding too many empty boxes in front of you. It will be up to you to occupy them one or the other. Sneeze well. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.118.0	Thank you, Congressman. The French Deputy of Dalmases, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.119.0	Thank you, President. Do I have two promises? The first is to bring a hug to the men and women who are in Jonquera, who are an example of nonviolent resistance, a record for them from this hemisphere. [[Greetings.]] And the second is very good news, a previous one: the European Union Advocate General spoke to us in a very interesting way with respect to our MEPs, when he said that the acquisition of the mandate is the sole result of the voters' vote. He said in reference to Vice President Junqueras [[applause]] But he will obviously have an impact on President Puigdemont and Councilor Comín. Democracy continues to advance to free Europe. The truth is that when the Socialist Group presented this young man we thought they were leaving today after this election campaign and after these results they would look for some way that they wouldn't pull her out, some way to pull her out, because it's a young man who, in fact, is a demand for responsibility. And precisely after this campaign and from which we have listened, therefore, the PSOE, its leader, Mr. Pedro Sánchez and the PSC, if they have been anything is irresponsible. They have wasted our time and money, they have shown their inability to dialogue with no one, not only with the president of Catalonia but with no one. During this time they have manifested themselves with the ultrathreat, they have bleached it, they have had a state funeral to a dictator. The one who lost you won the ultrathreat – bingo! – and they have evidenced the state where we live, that there is no separation of powers – remember, « who controls the prosecution? Well, that's it. He was tired, tired of democracy. And, on the other hand, independence is stronger, it reinforces the idea that giving them things of frankness is useless and that what matters is to plant them face. But until you do all this, you present this young man who says, speaking of Catalonia, that he has clearly damaged the image and reputation of the country. Listen to me, if you and all the prosecutors ask them to recognize their independence, and they've already told them it's down to the cua. And they introduce us to this young man with little fang, they present an image that is lied to and that, I always say, is especially regrettable that they present it to the PSC. I have a mother who was a great admirer of Pallach and every time you do something like that, you surprise us that they do that. Because, for example, they continue to insist on the issue of violence and violence is against people, not against things. And that's something that we need to repeat and that you need to know and recognize: the contents have no family, no eyes, no testicles, and therefore, what is produced is the legitimate and necessary protest to an unjust feeling that condemns a hundred years of imprisonment for men and women, and it is a democratic quality index that is produced by these protests. What would be terrible is that with an unfair feeling like this people don't go out on the street, people don't express themselves, because the difference between democracy and an authoritarian system is that people can protest and our right is to protect this will of protest. Perhaps the indignity of his Minister Marlaska, when he compared a civil, peaceful and democratic movement to what he is a terrorist gang, was felt. Unfortunately, remind them that we condemn all the rapes, all of them; that you still have to condemn the one of October 1, that this was a rape against people. [[applause]] There's always time. And points 4 and 5, these are insurmountable, because you propose..., they speak of dialog, they propose what the government has already done, and it is creating a dialog space, and you say, that they are the dialect's antithesis. They remember, don't they? , from the story of the rapporteur, to rise up, from the manifestation of Columbus, to deny the dialect. And then we've already moved on to the other band, which is that they don't take the phone anymore. But this is an anecdote, not to take over the phone. They're irresponsible because it's his job. Our job, as politicians, and even more that of the President of the Government, is to dialogue, is to talk. And this little girl that we heard during the campaign when the president of Catalonia, who represents us all, asks for a dialog is the impropie of any leader. Because, finally, the presidency is an institution and the duty of this Parliament is to protect it. While they can, I think they won't last very long, but while they can listen to the street cheer, they listen to President Torra, they follow and talk: sit and talk. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.120.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Deputy David Mejía has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.121.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, it is clear that the economic consequences that our land has suffered as a result of the process have been, are and will be absolutely harmful. Easier and more recent examples are the roadblocks that we are suffering at Junquera and that involve losses of 15_million_euros per day, according to the employer of transporters. But, hey, it's okay here. That is why we need from our parliamentary group to see all the problems that have led us to the irresponsibility of the different separatist governments that we have had in the Generalitat. Ciutadans has tabled a series of amendments to this motion in order to try to visualize, in a much clearer and much more concise way, the insufferable actions that we are experiencing with the complicity of the Government of the Generalitat. A government of the Generalitat presided over by Mr Torra and with the connivance of the president of the Parliament of Catalonia, who prepares a new blow to separate us from the rest of Spain and who has started to call to occupy the airports, the railway stations and also to cut roads, as we are currently seeing. With these actions, intractable in a democracy, it is no longer that the autonomous have difficulty lifting the blind every day, but they have to go out themselves to extinguish the fires of separatist commands that are encouraged by the president of the Generalitat. This Government, which is certainly not worthy to come to Parliament to debate and to listen to this motion, thanks those who set fire in Catalonia and, instead, does not ask for forgiveness from the traders who have lost so much because of this street violence of the radical separatists [[applause]] ; this government that endorses the totalitarian tsunami that has devastated everything and that again sows chaos in Catalonia but that omits the reality of the damage that it entails for our economic activity everything that they are protecting. What positive effects can we have when our rulers think that institutional neutrality is turning institutions into the headquarters of their parties, and public money, into a budget for their campaigns? What positive effects can we have when totalitarianism campes wide in the streets and in universities? It is outrageous what we are seeing in universities, which have become authentic centres of ideological bullying, against those who want to defend freedom and against those who want to exercise their right to attend class. Look, from Citizens we defend a shock plan so that these more than five thousand companies that have left because of this coup d'état that we have suffered in Catalonia can return to Catalonia. We did so during the Monographic Plenary that took place last July; we also did so in the general policy debate that took place, and also in the motion of censure tabled by my parliamentary group and that the same PSC that is presenting this motion today and which regrets the situation that we are living in did not want to vote. There is only one starting point for dialogue with the Government of Spain, and that is compliance with democratic legality. It speaks of dialogue a government of the Generalitat that has become selfies with the radicals that organized camp battles and, instead, questions the actions of the bodies and security forces of the State, of the Mossos d'Esquadra, of the National Police, of the Civil Guard. That is, those who generate chaos are applauded by the government and those who generate security, investigated. What more does Mr Sánchez need to initiate the procedures to require 155, when Catalonia is on fire, when Catalonia is cut off, when those who govern us applaud detainees for alleged terrorist crimes and when they insist on us – and we were able to observe this very morning in this very Parliament – who will continue the blow to democracy through the illegal resolutions they are presenting? What else has to happen if the Spanish Government is to realize that it must restore the constitutional order in Catalonia and, therefore, the economic stability that we deserve? Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, it is very good to present motions like this, but what we really think you should do is leave the words and start acting once and for all, before Torra and company leave Catalonia in an irreversible situation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.122.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, and to fix its position, has the word Ms Maria Sirvent. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.123.0	Yes, thank you, President. In this case, in its first point, it speaks of the image and reputation of the country's economy. It seems that this is what worries us, and not the violence that women suffer every day, that the workers suffer and that the territories suffer with policies that develop the successes of governments, both of the Generality and the Government of the State. For another band, in the second point, you say that Parliament is committed to working for the recovery of civic coexistence. I suppose working for civic coexistence is congratulating the police that it has already cost four people to lose their eyes, that two people have lost a testicle, that they have been using techniques like carousel, that they are giving fucking shots over their waists and that, in the end, they are not due to long-term actions, but systemic actions of closed police violence. For another band, we see that here there was a theme that had been presented by Juntes for Catalonia and the Republican Left, but it seems that he has finally withdrawn. I suppose that's what the bosses are wearing all morning, too, that you're betting the action of the Democratic Tsunami, you must have had something to do with it, too. And in this case it also speaks of public assumptions to make it happen. It seems that this game of stabilization between the PSC, or the PSOE, and Juntes for Catalonia and the Republican Left also begins in Parliament. For another group, they say we abandon any unilateral or illegal initiative. What's that supposed to mean? That we give up the exercise of the right to self-determination? And finally, explain why there are two blanks of the CUP today. There are two blanks because our companies are in Peru with the people of the Democratic Tsunami, accompanying this action. Congresswoman Natalia Sànchez is already there, and soon Mr Carles Riera will arrive.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.124.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word "Mr. Alejandro Fernández".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.125.0	Yes, thank you, President. From the escho, simply to convey our vote in favour to the whole House, that is a point, which I shall now refer to. I would like to make it very explicit at point 3, when it gives support to the forces and security of the State, and today we should also add, in order to comply with its obligation, those of France. It must be extraordinarily difficult to be an independentist in Catalonia, because it seems that only you are democrats on planet Earth and the rest of the world has done so and that no longer has a solution. In any case, we will abstain from point 4, because we understand that while there is no condemnation on the part of the strong and clear government of the violence it is not giving the conditions now for dialogue. We are a party of dialogue and we want to talk to whomever it is necessary, but I insist, until we produce a condemnation on the part of Mr. Torra and his Government, explicitly, to the violence that happened in the last few days in Catalonia, we believe that these conditions are not given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.126.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.127.0	Thank you, President. I'll try to be as quick as I can. Too bad we don't listen to each other in this Parliament, huh? What a pity! After we say we want to talk. But if we didn't listen and come here with the speeches written... If you had listened to me, you would have said that I spoke right to peaceful protest; that a lot of people spoke peacefully, Mrs Segovia, I said. But what we can't tolerate is violence. And what I would like is that, just as we did on October 1st, we made a statement at 10:30 a.m. at the hands of our group president, Mr. Miquel Iceta, in which he condemned and demanded that the violence that had taken place..., we would like you to be equally worthy and also committed with the violence that has taken place these days in Barcelona and other cities of Catalonia. And I don't – and I don't! [[Greetings.]] That's indignant! And you come to give us lessons in dignity? U d'Octubre, 2017: Mr.Iceta and Mr.Sanchez calling for the immediate cessation of the rape of police bodies. It's good to give us lessons! There has been violence, this has generated bad image, the photographs of October 1 went all over the world; also from this October 2019, unfortunately. And that affects the image and reputation of Catalonia, I'm telling you. And I didn't come here to make these comparisons: "You talk about violence and not about gender violence, and not about inequalities. Yes; we do so in many other motions. But, look, Mrs. Sirvent, who agreed on the assumptions of 2017, which we come from abroad, was the CUP, not the PSC! [[Greetings.]] See if each person assumes their responsibilities, too. And I'll tell you something else, Mrs. Segovia. Mr. Pedro Sánchez offered a coalition government. Among other things, he did offer the Ministry of Living, and you said he was a florist. And now they're asking us to do brave left-wing politics. We make them so many places, so many socialist assemblies, in many cases living together with you, with coalition governments with you... that they don't come all day to ask us for lessons! If they really want a left-wing government, we're still able to listen, dialogue and agree, that this is what Catalonia needs, and it also needs Spain. And I stop giving us, really, so many lessons. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.128.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Mr. Dalmases, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.129.0	Yes; for a point of order. [[Pause.]] We didn't mention that we took the message out of voice at point 3, which had been accepted.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.130.0	Excuse me, point number three? , the emboss at point number three, say?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.131.0	Yeah, we're pulling it out. The company of the Republic Group has already mentioned it, but I have not mentioned it, and therefore, because it is in the record.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.132.0	All right. I suppose the groups are not informed and so...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.133.0	Yes, yes, yes, indeed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.134.0	Okay. Thank you, Congressman. [[David Mejía Ayra asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Mejía.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.135.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.136.0	Any more separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, ma'am Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.137.0	Yes, President; to ask for separate vote from '1 and '2 for one band; 3, 4 and 5, for another, and 3 bis, for another.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.138.0	All right. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] The 3, 4 and 5 that have been asked..., we'll do 3 and 5, and 4 in the band, because Mr. Mejía asked that the 4 is able to vote separately, huh? [[Pause.]] All right. We shall now proceed to the vote. But before I do, I'm guessing that a majority of parliamentary groups have asked that the next point follow the point I was predicting, number 1. If there are a majority of parliamentary groups that wish to do so, we will. [[Pause.]] All right. Let us then proceed to the vote. We will vote in the first place on points 1 and 2– 1 and 2 – of the motion. The vote begins. Points 1 and 2 were rejected by 56 votes to 62, with 8 abstentions. Let's now vote three and five, points three and five. The vote begins. Points 3 and 5 were approved by 64 votes to 61, with no abstentions. We're voting now on the 3a point. The vote begins. Point 3a was rejected by 56 votes to 70, with no abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He lost, the 4; we'll vote first the 4. Excuse me. No, no, that's right. I'm sorry, I forgot. Point number four, first, and then the rest of the young man, huh? So, we're voting point number four. The vote begins. Point number four. Point 4_has been rejected by 25 votes to 62, with 39 abstentions. And now, we're voting for the rest of the vote... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] There's no more points left? Don't you? Did they all vote? [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] So there's no rest of the young man. All right. [[Modification of the agenda]] Pass, so, now... [[Widow's remorse.]] Let's pass now, so, as we say, at the first point, that is the debate and vote... Yes; tell me, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.139.0	Yeah. With regard to the changes to the agenda, an appearance by President Torra has been approved here. We wanted to know what time it's going to be celebrated and how it's going to be set.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.140.0	The debate on the appearance has been approved, which is not exactly the same; you know, Congressman. And in any case, as if you're planning a doorman's meeting and a table, then we'll evaluate it and decide it with the groups' joints. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.141.0	Yes, President. In accordance with Article 83.3, we would also call for an alteration of the order of the day. As early in the morning we have incorporated the debate on the President's appearance, we would now ask that this debate on the President's appearance be substantiated further to the next point, which is this bill's proposal. With which two parliamentary groups are needed to make this petition, I would ask the rest of the groups if they want to adhere to this petition. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.142.0	Say'm, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.143.0	We're joining in. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak and the president gives her the word.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.144.0	Yeah, we're adding to it, too. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.145.0	Well, it was approved before the debate on the President's request for appearance. What is proposed now is a change in the order of the day because this debate can be done as soon as possible. Therefore, we will have to vote on this change in the agenda. Call it a vote. [[Pause. Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.146.0	Just to say that we think it's better to wait for us at the Board of Spokespersons to decide that. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.147.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Long break.]] Well, we'll proceed to the vote on this change in the order of the day. The vote begins. This request to change the agenda was rejected by 56 votes in favour, 69 against and no abstentions. Therefore, as we said before, we will deal with it at the Board of Spokesmen in due course. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 7/2011 of 27 July 2011 on fiscal and financial measures and Law 20/2000 of 29 December 2000 on the creation of the Catalan Institute of Cultural Industries]] [[202-00064/12]] Very well, now, therefore, to the debate and vote on the proposal for the processing, directly, and in one reading before the plenary, of the Proposal for a Law amending Law 7/2011, of 27 July, of fiscal and financial measures, and of the Law 20/2000, of 29 December, of the creation of the Catalan Institute of Cultural Industries. [[Widow's remorse.]] According to Rule 138.2 of the Rules, the Joint Parliamentary Group... Silence, please! In accordance with Rule 138.2 of the Rules, the Parliamentary Groups of Junts for Catalonia, the Republic and the Socialist Parliamentary Groups and Units for Progress called for the processing of this initiative for a single reading. According to the criteria laid down for the Bureau, a first debate and vote must be taken because the Plenary agrees, if there is to be any, the processing of the bill's proposal and the single reading procedure. The debate must revolve around the enabling assumption of Article 138.1 of the Rules of Procedure and the general value of the text, opportunity, principles and criteria that inform the proposal in accordance with the rules of the totality debate. In this sense, the Board of Spokesmen, I must inform you that it agreed that parliamentary groups would have a five-minute turn for each; two and a half, therefore, for parliamentary subgroups. In the first place, the three proposing groups have the word, for this order: in the first place, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has the word Mr Rafel Bruguera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.148.0	Thank you, President. The year 2011, through the Law of fiscal and financial measures to accompany the assumptions, was created the Support Office to the Cultural Initiative, which provided among others that the competitions of the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises in matters of approval of the bases, call, concession and management of aid and subsidies passed to the OSIC. But a transitional arrangement of the same law agreed to maintain the ICCC's competitions for a period of two years; prorogations that later incorporated the following years. The latter was in the Law of fiscal and financial accompanying measures of 2017, the last premise approved for this house. That is to say, on 31st December of enguany, if it were not, the ICC would be automatically integrated into the OSIC. The competitions of the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises go much further than the management of grants, grants and reintegrated credits; it is a useful tool, even though it is better– and we will probably talk about this more extensively tomorrow– I repeat, useful, of cooperation between the Administration and the cultural enterprises and industries – audiovisual, performing arts, music, book, visual arts, digital culture. All this wide, diverse and important cultural sector of our country, an important part of which with obvious problems and challenges to further worsened by the lack of funding and a just and adequate presumption of the Department of Culture, has mobilized these last months to maintain the skills of the ICC. We believe that with all reason, with all logic and with all justice. There are three fulls left to finish the year, to finish this year, and urgency, therefore, is obvious and more than justified. Given the inaction, once again, of the Government in cultural matters, which could have acted a long time ago, because sugar is coming, the parliamentary initiative has to solve the problem. And the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, which I represent, demonstrating again, demonstrating once more its commitment to the Catalan cultural sector, is where it is expected, where it must be: supporting – if it is wanted, critical, but supporting – a necessary parliamentary initiative and coming up too late. If we ignore each other, we won't get there in time. Among other things, as demonstrated this same morning, that, if we do not alter the order of the day, there probably wasn't enough time tomorrow to submit papers and therefore could not debate this issue and therefore finally approve this bill of law. It modifies an article... oh, no, forgive me. For what it does to the single reading process of the bill's proposal, it also remains more than justified by the temporary urgency, as I have already argued, and also by the content of the text that is put to debate. An article of the Law of Creation of the OSIC is modified to maintain the competences of the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises and, at the same time, two more articles that represent substantial improvements in the composition of the governing bodies of the ICEC: one member of the Conca and another representing the workers of the creation and the cultural industries. It is not a question, as I have been told by some Member, of taking the chestnuts out of the government's fire, years in the opposite direction, it is a question of not putting more problems from politics to the cultural sector, which is already good enough, and giving it solutions. Despite the events of the government and of the parliamentary groups that support it, despite the cunning, despite the flagrant violations of the rights of the deputies, despite the flagrant violations of the Rules of this house, and therefore the finding that theirs is the policy of the blockade and the policy of "the worst, the better, we do not see here. We, more there– more there– that we bring the chestnuts of fire to the Government, the one that concerns us is not you, that we do not govern, but that the one that concerns us is another very different thing, that it is the country and that it is its problems, and in this concrete case the situation of the cultural industries, that they need a momentum, that they need the Government to be at their side, and that, therefore, in part, can continue to exercise their skills and their important challenges in a changing world, in a world where, for example, all the audiovisual is changing in an astronomical way and it is absolutely clear that it can be day-to-day, that it can react to the measurement that things are going on. So, I repeat..., and I finally appeal to the responsibility of all the parliamentary groups because this law, unfortunately, despite the fact that there would be more than enough reason not to support..., not this initiative, but to those who present the government and introduce the parliamentary groups who support it, by their own responsibility, as we do, to support this proposal of the law. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.149.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Jenn Díaz has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.150.0	Thank you, President. Well, I doubt very much that this is a question of taking the chestnuts from the fire to the Government of Catalonia, basically because this is a demand of the cultural sector. And, therefore, the only one we make Members and Deputies in this chamber is to make us available to this cultural sector, which many days ago, which has been chasing us for weeks, so that we can do this process. Therefore, I would seem very demagic to think that this is government yes, government no, when the only thing we are doing is making us available to this sector. We have met practically, if I am not mistaken, all the parliamentary groups, and therefore the only thing we do is to do the policy that is close to us, that is the public policy that is available, and that we are only a tool for the citizen. It is the second time that we are dealing with a single reading issue that affects the Department of Culture; we did so with the Conca, we came back to agree, because it is obvious that the cultural sector of this country needs us, we cannot add to it any more unsettled. And what we're voting for today is not the first time we're voting for it, and what we're exactly doing is not expanding or generating more instability in the cultural sector, or in cultural enterprises, which they have, as much as they do with the sector's own balance. And we vote for it precisely so that we don't have to vote for it any more. And it's true, and the Bruguera company is right, that there's a certain urgency, that time is "squeezing, and sometimes it's maybe what we need to get in touch with, isn't it? , of the things we have to do and don't do the last moment. The follow-up the ICEC makes to cultural enterprises has been decisive in making this decision definitively; its competitions go beyond management, and that is not what the Republican Group said, and I am not saying it, but I was giving it a letter addressed to us by the cultural enterprises and the sector of this country – cultural–, which we were told: that the management of the ICEC went beyond management. And I take this opportunity to greet your director, in Miquel Curanta, who will accompany us. And, as it goes beyond that, this management, what we are voting for today is neither more nor less than the consolidation and stability of the Catalan culture sector. The division of management, as the entities claiming this legislative change pointed out, does not help them. And the only thing we do is put ourselves at his disposal. And I also greet the secretary general. And what we're doing today makes us feel at work, as it did before, of the deputies and deputies of this chamber. Why? Because we make ourselves available to the sector, to the voice of the expert and ultimately to those who fight every day to make this country a more cult, more critical and more democratic country. And what do we do? Make us available, I insist. Why? Because they are the ones who are fighting every day for this country, they are the ones who are deciding every day where those money goes, where we are directing those efforts and energies to make this country a more religious and, ultimately, freer country. It is, therefore, a question of making a better follow-up to cultural enterprises and giving, in the end, disabled to those managements that work; it is a question of optimizing the results and resources. And that's what we vote for today. And we're doing it for one reading because it's true that there's an emergency. The challenge does not end here, however: once the competitions are delimited, which is what we are today voting in favour of the single reading and tomorrow voting in favour of the law's proposal, what we need to do is to ensure that the management of cultural subsidies is homogeneous. And what does that mean? That you are in the service of the city, that it is ultimately who will benefit from public policies, as in all areas. This also means that they are old for equal opportunities, that they are old for access to help..., that they are democratic and fair, and that, therefore, they do not leave anyone behind. And when we don't let anyone back, what do we mean? So nobody wants to say anyone, people or sectors. And how do we do that? So as we know: speaking, listening to the sectors, putting us at their disposal, and exactly what we're doing today, what we've done the last few weeks, which is putting us in agreement on cultural issues, presenting it together, despite the fact that at the end of the day there was someone who broke down, but putting us in agreement, because we can't afford that the sector of culture, which is already very precarious and needs our work in this room, therefore, depends on whether we're in the campaign or not and whether we have some colors, some ideologies or others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.151.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr. Francesc Ten has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.152.0	Thank you, President. Deputys and deputies, good morning. In cultural space we always find a haven, a space to sweat and talk. From here, my support to the people of the Tsunami, to sweat and talk. I have a certain hint of words... [[Greetings.]] I have a certain ability to play word games and anagrams. If we take the word ‘tsunami tsunami', we will understand, yes, yes, we will. And that's it: yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, [[Greetings.]] That's what we've done, sweat and talk. We have spoken to the sector, the sector has come to listen to us, to offer us its concerns, its..., yes, concerns about this problem of extension that we had in the Law of Creation of the OSIC. And, after talking to them, we have listened and talked and we have given this legislative initiative, which modifies, as has already been said, the Law of Creation of the CIO and which modifies in some respects also the Law of Creation of the CIO. Article 138 of the Rules states that this can be done whenever the nature of the project advises it or the simplicity of the formulation allows it. I believe that this "or should be one" and, because, in our case, it is two things: it is that the nature of the project advises it or, if not, does not disapprove it, and the simplicity of the formulation allows it. Between today and tomorrow we'll just see that it's..., what we're doing is changing the extension, the extension that we've been inheriting in the different laws of fiscal measures, and we're improving the management agencies of the ICC incorporating the Conca and workers' representatives. "Representatives of the workers was a change proposed to us by the same group of Communs, which then, in the joint processing, therefore, was unmarked, curiously; we will say so, only curiously. I also wanted to thank the Socialist Group here, therefore, for the work to advance in this joint process. Well, what are we doing? We are doing what, in short, we have already done in May, in parallel with the Law of the Conca, in which, therefore, in a situation that is not the same, not much less, but we had..., it was necessary to modify it so that we could move forward. Here's what we've got going on... that's where it works, so don't touch it, because it already works. We had an extension that had never been... that separated the management of the OSIC and the ICEC and that, therefore, had never been achieved. If it had never happened and the two bodies worked, therefore, we definitely tank this issue, we eliminate the prorogate and improve those aspects that, therefore, we believe that, since we are, we can improve, as is the incorporation of the Conca and the representatives of the workers into the management bodies of the ICC, as has been said. Nor is it a matter of making a dialectic of ambivalences between the CSO and the CCI. OSIC is a great support office for cultural initiatives that works very well and has some protocols and some ways of working that can even be modeled for other organizations, perhaps also for ICEC. And that's for sure from the same advice – and I take this opportunity to greet the secretary general, the director of the ICC and the representatives who have come to accompany us on this legislative initiative – so I'm sure that from the same department it's always going to be better and better. It's necessary... you can't make cultural policies on the sidelines of agents, on the sidelines of the sector. The same Forum Culture 2020 states that there has been excessive atomization, in its proposals for conclusions it states that there has been excessive atomization of the sector. And, therefore, today we show that there are ways to group together, to work together and to move forward. And this is what the ICC does also in the processing of its policies: the ICC accompanies not only in the processing of subsidies, obviously, but also in the management, in the world... I therefore ask you to vote in favour of this single reading initiative today. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.153.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, and to position himself, it's the turn of parliamentary groups. In this case, and in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mr Hector Amello. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.154.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning. Welcome to all those who are with us here today, to representatives of cultural enterprises. I have to tell you that you have not sought consensus, precisely, to process this proposal of law, precisely because you have excluded us from being able to present it together. So, what you say about sitting down and talking, you haven't practiced. Perhaps they should practice what they preach. First of all, I would like to point out that it is clear to us that this proposal for a law is in line precisely with the requirements of the Regulation for the processing of legislative initiatives on a single reading basis. And it does so because of the simplicity of its own formulation. The proposal that brings to this plenary hardly amends an article of Law 7/2011, on fiscal and financial measures, and two articles of Law 20/2000, establishing the Catalan Institute of Cultural Industries, so we are faced with a legislative amendment that, due to its simplicity, can be assumed without problems in one reading. But the entities affected by the amendment, which are the OSIC and the ICEC, have some issues that need to be discussed both today and tomorrow, in a broader debate. And there are two issues that I would like to be able to advance them today, without going into depth, but we do have to move forward, and the first is on the objective of this amendment of the law, which is nothing other than the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises, the ICEC, to maintain its functions on cultural promotion initiatives, which should have been assumed by the Office of Support for the Cultural Initiative, after its creation; a modification that the Government has had on the table for eight years, but has not had the courage or the time to address it despite its simplicity. The Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises has undergone an attempt to reduce functions through the 2011 Law on Fiscal and Financial Measures, which was met with the unanimous rejection of the cultural industries. The cultural industry preferred to continue collaborating precisely with the ICEC because it had a better knowledge of the needs of the sector, before OSIC assumed these functions by law. And we believe that there has to be a reference entity for cultural enterprises. And then what did the government do? As was found in 2011 with the cultural sector's refusal to lose part of its functions, what they have done over the past eight years is to grant extension after extension for the ICEC to continue to carry out the functions of support to cultural enterprises that it had always been carrying out since its inception and that were withdrawn from it under the 2011 Tax and Financial Measures Act. You, what you are actually doing here today is that..., for the past eight years you have not found even a couple of days to make a modification of two articles of a law that, because of its simplicity, can precisely be processed by one reading and that the error that you made in 2011 was corrected. They have been so busy thinking about how to separate themselves from Spain, how to organize illegal referendums, how to organize a coup d'état, how to get rid of the CDRs, how to cut roads, who have not even had two afternoons to modify the articles of the law to respond to the demands of the cultural industries and thus increase the potential of the production of the cultural industry. It is clear that if in these eight years you have not brought about a modification of the law that can be dealt with precisely by one reading, giving answer to the demands of the cultural industry, it is because for you your priority is not culture, and that it only moves you, for it is one thing, that it is your obsession to separate itself from Spain, that it gives no solution to anyone but that it does block the cultural industry. Roadblocks and the blockade of borders have a direct negative impact on our cultural industries, and so it is proving its inaction to modify its own mistakes, and its obsession to separate itself from Spain leaves them no time for anything else and is harming the interests of culture in Catalonia. And a second topic that I would also like to advance is precisely one of the problems that exist in the field of culture in Catalonia and that we express to Conseller Borràs, who is also accompanying us today, in 2017. And it is the granting of aid excluded from competition, which also lacks a strategic grant plan, as laid down precisely in the General Grants Act. In the 2017 OSIC monitoring report, 124 grants were excluded from competition, awarded in 2015, worth more than EUR 5_million_and_half_, and for 2016 there were 149 other grants worth EUR 12_million_and_half; in total, some EUR 18_million_delivered to the finger. Because in the end, for nationalism, for what ends up using public money, for what ends up using the money of our taxes, it is precisely to pay their holidays and to confront Catalans and to create conflict. Do you know who was given EUR 1,860,000 in a grant excluded from competition? For they delivered it to the Platform per la Llengua, that entity that is dedicated to spying on the language in which our children speak in the courtyards and that is dedicated to pointing out traders that do not label in Catalan. The problem... [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Look, to conclude, from Citizens what we want is for the ICEC to be an entity of impulse and support to the support of the cultural industries and an entity that acts with neutrality and objectivity to increase the potential of cultural production in the Catalan industry. Therefore, we will support this proposal for a one-reading procedure...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.155.0	Deputy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.156.0	...and tomorrow it will not be us who block this proposal. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.157.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Catalonia in Comú - Pomão, it is the turn of the MP Concepción Abellán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.158.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, this proposed law on the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises means putting in order a legal situation that for years has left two public bodies in a situation, as in the least, of uncertainty about their own future and with an indefinacy about the competitions we had. In 2011, in full application of austerity and retail policies, the Office of Support for the Cultural Initiative was born, and the Catalan Institute of Cultural Entrepreneurs should no longer be the body for managing grants and aid within a maximum of two years, it is said that the government's stake was to retaliate the economic support to the cultural sector, mostly formed by autonomous people and small businesses, and to manage, through the Office of Support for the Cultural Initiative, subsidies through competitive competition. In this way, the government duplicated organizations with an expiry date and began the collapse. Prolonged extension, since 2010, until it arrived today, nine years later. And all this to tell us that duplicity is left and without a clear idea of how the coincidence of functions works, because today one of the things that is repealed is the legislative mandate for which the government had to submit a bill amending the Law 20/2000, creating the institute, in order to avoid the coincidence of functions. What paper did they want to give the successor governments to the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises? We don't know yet. We are presented with a proposal to modify the laws that ordered the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises to reinvent itself since 2011, and what they do is simply self-correct the error, which they went through validating various advisors, of wanting to take them to the institute the lines of economic support to the cultural sector that it encompasses. But it is harder still: for the way we have had tax reports from the Union of Accounts that make evident the lack of clear criteria in the setting up of nominative subsidies and to do so with little transparency. In summary, there is no government proposal on how to strategically situate the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises because it is a body of dynamism, promotion and internationalization of the cultural sector. I remember that this is a legal warrant that they haven't completed in nine years and that now they're repealing it. They intend to maintain, with modification, the administrative duplication to manage the policy of subsidies of the Department of Culture. They resolve, in a term that is exhausted, without any strategic orientation from where they want to carry the country's cultural policies. And that's what they do after they've applied a lot of treasures to the cultural premise – the last, of a 6_percent of a public cultural sector like museums and theatres – and contributed to the precariousness and instability of the cultural sector. We understand that this law proposal is not just about saving a legal term: it is about the cultural policy of the government and the distribution of economic resources. A department that allocates a 20_per_cent less of the budget now that in 2010 it should be able to tell us, more transparently, how it intends to distribute the resources it has for cultural enterprises and for small creators and creators. I was warned by the Conca in 2011, it has been said infinitely by the manifestos of the associations of culture: a decrease in resources will lead to an irreparable loss of talent and creatively. There's a lot of talent in this country, a lot of musical, artistic, creative talent, that doesn't have a loudspeaker, and this is where the generality isn't expecting it. And with this proposal for law, what remains clear is the government's inopportunity to culture. Two years; in two years, four advisor changes, with a scathing assumption and with intent to reverse the presuppositional situation. Putting down marks when the prorogations are exhausted is the inaction and inability to govern this country and to meet the needs of people and cultural sectors. Certainly, the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises has become an organization that the cultural sector is trying to take care of and maintain, because it's just how little they have. And that's why they asked us for continuity, but the government... just as everyone knows that the culture of this country deserves much more. We'll do the one-time reading and we'll introduce them to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.159.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is now the return of the deputy Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.160.0	Yes; President, thank you. Simply to position us respect the single reading process, depending on which article 138 of the Rules of this chamber establishes. We will position ourselves favourably, given that it is giving the objective and subjective causes for the processing for this way in one reading, of nature and simplicity. It will be tomorrow, in the debate on the material content, that we will position ourselves expressly on the content of this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.161.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.162.0	Yes, thank you, President. Also in order to position ourselves favourably to the processing of this proposal of law for the one way of reading, as we understand that it fulfills the requirements in order to be able to operate these small modifications in the law of measures of 2011 and, concretely, in the regulation of the OSIC and also of the Law of 2000, in relation to the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.163.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] Well, we'll go to the vote. I remind you, meanwhile, that the votes you say are in favour of one-reading and that the votes you deny are against one-reading. Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. The one-reading procedure was approved by 125 votes in favour, against and against, that is, unanimously. In view of the result of the vote, and in accordance with Article 138.1 of the Rules of Procedure, the Proposal for a Law amending Law 7/2011 of 27 July 2011 on fiscal and financial measures, and Law 20/2000 of 29 December 2000 on the creation of the Catalan Institute of Cultural Industries, will be dealt with in a single reading before the plenary session. To this end, the deadline for the submission of all items to the totality as well as items to the joint will end tomorrow morning to the gods of the morning. I repeat, huh? Tomorrow morning. And once the end of the presentation of papers has been completed, it must be hard to finish, in the same plenary session, the debate of the papers to the totality, of a band, if any, and to the joint, in the same act, in the same debate, with five minutes of intervention for parliamentary groups and two and a half for each subgroup. This debate, as you know, will take place tomorrow at the end of the debate on the Sport Law Proposal and the physical activity of Catalonia. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the situation of emergence in Rojava by attacks by the Turkish army]] [[302-00152/12]] We now turn to the next item on the order of the day, continuing with the motions, the following motion follows the question to the Government on the situation of emergence in Rojava for the attacks of the Turkish army, motion presented to the Parliamentary Group Republic. To defend it has the word Lord Robert Wagensberg. I'm sorry, Congressman Ferran Civit – I had noted that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.164.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, it's cold today, huh? So Jonquera is still colder, or even refugee camps or prison or exile. Because the first record I want to keep today is for the people who are in Jonquera, those who are now likely to be in Euskal Herria showing their disagreement with a sentence, the people who are sentenced to a hundred years in prison, the exiled people, the people hired since September 23rd and, obviously, all the support for the members of the Bureau, who are subject to more pressure from the Constitutional Court or other courts. So, all the support for all these people, because if in a democracy you can't talk about everything, it's that you can't talk about anything. And if you can't talk about anything, it doesn't end up feeling like a parliament but it ends up feeling like a silence. And we always remember that, because it can't be that here, automatically, we vote one thing and five seconds later I'm already annulled by the Constitutional Court. Because it can be..., it seems that the right to self-determination is unconstitutional, but curiously it's constitutional to sell weapons. This is very powerful democratic foundations, because, of course, it wants to silence the sale of weapons, but it also wants to silence the Kurdish people. Because, certainly, neither the Kurdistan is Catalonia nor Turkey is Spain, even though every time it gathers more in repression. It should be remembered, therefore, that Turkey, in the same way as Spain now, also began to practice digital censorship. Kurdistan is a born without being with more inhabitants than the inhabitants on the Iberian peninsula. The Iberian Peninsula, huh? More inhabitants than all on the Iberian Peninsula, with their language and culture persecuted, in the four or – depending on the places – five states in which they are present. A community where even his name is denied. In Turkey, they say, officially, "the Turks of the mountain. As you know, there are the Catalans of the mountain and the Catalans of the plane; the Catalans of the metropolitan area and the Catalans that we are of the people. So the Kurds are the Turks of the mountains. A village that the post-World War I treatises, that of Lausanne, the Skyes-Picot, that of Sèvres decided for them, in which they literally distributed a birth directly between five states, without which they had nothing to see, without which they could decide; in which, in a totally colonial way, they decided for them. But, at the same time, while the empires are being broken up here, there were places from here, from Eastern Europe, that voted and decided on which territories they wanted to join, to which state. And, of course, this is an example that has continued and this colonialism has been shown, logically, when, for example, cases such as Leyla Zana, Kurdish MP, who was sentenced to fifteen years in prison – fifteen years in prison – to speak in Kurdish and to defend the Kurdish people's right to self-determination in the Ankara Parliament. Fifteen years in prison. It is worth remembering, because here, the President of Parliament, has been sentenced to eleven years and a half, precisely, to allow a parliamentary debate which, as we see, is a tradition that is not allowed. Leyla Zana, we remember that she was declared a conscience for Amnesty International, that organization that, as they recall, has not yet read the sentence against new people for having put ballot boxes. Leyla Zana, also Sakharov Prize for the Freedom of Consciousness of the European Parliament. Leyla Zana, a member of an illegal political party and who, together, she and many other members and elected members of Kurdistan have been detained or dispossessed of their democratically elected posts. Remember that. A cremated content is not rape; trafficking in weapons is indeed rape. Giving support to expansionist armies is rape, selling weapons is rape, and obviously making use of those weapons. Weapons against the Kurds of the Syrian State and, especially, in the city of Rojava, a feminist bastion against extremist Islam. At the end of the week, more than two hundred dead, more than one hundred squares, more than seven hundred wounded. The conflict does not end, another time the Near East, and, logically, they have interests in oil, the states or the great potentials worldwide, the ones of the UN Security Council do and do away with their own. It may be recalled that many European countries have said, either actively or passively, that they would eliminate the non-political support – even if, after that, we will see it – but also that they would seize arms trade. We're talking about countries with Alemanya, with France, Finland or the Netherlands. But, of course, Spain also said that it would do so, but what we don't know is exactly what will affect it, because we're talking about existing military transport contracts; holes; the A-400M; the fact that Navantia's drassanes – public – participate with the drassanes Anadolu to make assault holes. Also only the first half of 2018 was sold..., for 162.5_million euros to Turkey and which, logically, decisions are taken with total secrecy, thanks to a regulation that is 1968 referring to state secrets. It's about Spain not confounding clients with friends, especially when it comes to weapons. For this reason, and for this reason, it is appropriate to position yourself. Therefore, all the support for the people fighting all the streets, the people fighting in Kurdistan, the people fighting in Xile, Hong Kong and, logically, the people fighting for freedom here in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.165.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, the deputy David Bertran, of the Gruppo Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.166.0	Well, thank you, President. Various ratings in relation to this reason that today brings us the Republican Left Group. To start by saying that it is an issue that our group is concerned about, but at the same time, we think that the most adept Parliament can deal with the potential response to an international conflict is the European Parliament and that, in fact, this has already spoken out with its resolution of 24 October and that our vote has been in favour, and that there is already a lot of aspects that this Member wants to deal with. Although Councillor Bosch likes to define himself as the holder of Exteriors, his constitutional margin of manoeuvre, which is already rather broad in comparative perspective for a regional government, does not include the international security party. Anyway... [[Pause.]] Excuse me. It is clear, therefore, that who is close to being positioned and acting on the subject under discussion is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, above all, to do so in agreement with all the members of the European Union, so that the answer remains as effective as possible. As, in fact, the same Council of the European Union has already done, condemning the Turkish operation. So, back to the resolution adopted by the European Parliament a couple of weeks ago on the subject here, as we have already tried to propose in reports to the motion before us, so we support the European condemnation of unilateral military intervention in north-eastern Syria and the fact that we urge Turkey to put it immediately and definitively. All military intervention should be carried out in accordance with international law and on the basis of an agreement of the United Nations Security Council. Likewise, we also show our concern for the destabilization and security of the region in the joint, which will cause more suffering to Syrian people already affected by a war that has lasted more than eight years and is leading to a massive displacement of civilians. Our solidarity with them and also with the Kurds themselves. We value the decision of Spain and other countries of the European Union, following Common Position 2008/944/CFSP, to make an embargo on the granting of arms export licences, given the circumstances – a fact which was already recognised by the same Member of Parliament Wagensberg at his previous inquiry. Finally, in relation to this resolution of the European Parliament, a key element to take into account in what it does to the situation we are talking about is the fact that many prisoners of the Daeix, who were initially guarded by the Kurds, have fled, and this increases the risk that these members of this total organisation may be at risk, may re-develop their activities already in Syria or, finally, that they may return, those who are of European origin, to our home. All these elements and many others, such as the position on Russia and the United States, have already been developed in this resolution that I mentioned from the European Parliament, which was approved on 24 October. So, so, we're wondering who this young man's differential is. And as we see, and it couldn't be any other way, we see that what we want is to use an external conflict, as we have already seen in the intervention of the Republican Left Member, to make it clear that here in Catalonia we have one of the same, as they do to the Foreign Affairs Committee. So, as the Member of the Left has already said, and as the Councillor told the previous question, it seems that, they say, the European Union has a better chance of being taken into account if you are outside than if you are inside, as they say, there is something similar between what happens in Syria and [[the timer riu]] The one that happens here. I would say to secessionism that it is given for allusions about what President Juncker said when he urged to fight a stupid nationalism and for the coexistence and diversity of the European Union. Because a Catalan nationalism that speaks of oppressed peoples, we see this sign. [[the orator shows the chamber a full]] What they did at the University Square camp, there were members of the Young People of the Republican Left, who say, speak, therefore, of an oppressed people in Catalonia, as if there were any kind of similarity to the situation we have here, so [[the timer riu]] It's unbelievable and intolerable. And the text that we proposed and that goes in line with which all Syrian parties, Kurdish inclusive, negotiated to arrive at the..., according to the Geneva Communiqué of 2012, and UN Council Resolution 22/54, said that the political situation of the Syrian conflict must be based on recognition, unity and territorial integrity of the Syrian State, and not, as demanded by the Republican Left, executing the Kurdish self-determination right, which they themselves did not agree. And I wanted to finish my intervention, too, by telling the Republican Left that there is a field in which they can act in a very useful way, and that's by telling their young people, the Young People of the Republican Left [[the orator shows a full to the chamber]] , which do not advocate totalitarianism, as they did when they put this tweet and put in value the dictatorship of Mao Zedong, which produced the greatest number of deaths of all the history of totalitarianism.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.167.0	You're out of here, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.168.0	Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.169.0	Next is the return of MP Josep Maria Forné, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.170.0	Vice President, deputies and deputies... deputy, you've just made a point of nationalism, as if you only exist the nationalism of people who don't have a state that supports them. There's a nationalism that's much worse, that's the state nationalism that ends up killing, and this is always dangerous. [[Greetings.]] The nationalism that is defense and that fights, and the nationalism that does it in a peaceful way, as these days in Catalonia are doing, in different forms, and violent forms are always condemned – violent forms are always condemned–, nationalism that is defense is not the same level as you spoke. The context of the Kurdish conflict. The Kurdish conflict goes from the moon to the end of World War I, when it is given some hope of being able to have an expression, like all the expressions of the world's peoples, which is a state structure, but it ends, with treatises and interests, divided between five states, by question of pure geometry. And then it's like now, Kurdistan, distributed between Syria, Iraq, Turkey, Iran and a small part of today's Armenia. Each of these different states, what they have done is try to take on these minority populations among their majorities or well-Turkish, or Arabs. In the form of arabicism Syria has done it, or, in the Turkish form it has done it from Turkish nationalism, which has already been imposed after the fall of the Ottoman Empire. And that's his situation. Therefore, it is a town that has suffered and suffers hard from a lack of recognition. Congressman Civite in uglia esment, until the point is that you don't even have the nominal recognition, nor the name. It is to say, nor to recognize them as Kurds, for a period of time, in Turkey; I do not know if at this time this duration still continues, it seems that between 2005 and 2015 there was a recognition of the possibility of naming... and a use of language, but it was totally forbidden the nominal recognition of Kurds and it is called the Turks of the mountains. The Kurds talk about having enemies and mountains, they don't talk about friends anymore, they just have mountains. The drama is that there are no mountains on Syria's side, and therefore, there are more destitute than in other places, as is the case with Turkey. That's where the situation they're painting is hard. But much harder still is the use that has been made, during the period of the Syrian civil war, to confront the Islamic State. And the Kurds were used as fresh. It is known that the training and fighting form of the Kurds has been used. And, in addition, the gender equality structure has been used to confront that mentality of the Islamic State that when some of its soldiers were in the hands of a woman, so it was still a much worse gain. And, therefore, they were afraid and they were afraid of the fishmerges, the Kurdish fighters. Now, after this use, Isha's abandoned to disarray, huh? And it has not only been abandoned in disarray, but they are part of this strategy of interests in which the Spanish State also has to see, in this strategy of interests. Play in the Tableau, huh? The only solution that can be found in this conflict is recognition of rights. Recognition of human rights, recognition of people's rights and recognition of people's rights. Something seemed to happen in Iraq, when there was... in Saddam Hussein's fall, there was also a certain recognition of the Kurds, but when he was interested, he abandoned himself. The right of self-determination claimed. In fact, there was a reference – the 1st of October also – to Iraq, to the Kurdistan of Iraq, and in recognition of the right to self-determination. Therefore, either there is only the possibility of recognizing human rights and collectivities, because we recognize that human rights have the three components, the personnel, the social and collectivities..., or there are these rights or we will not get out of them. The Spring Operation of Pau is a deception to impose an interest in a state and, moreover, with the blessing, in this case, now, of an agreement with Russia and the disempowerment of the United States. We ask in the motion that all this is correct and that we can give the reverse to this situation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.171.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to fix his position, the deputy Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.172.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs and MPs, we are all just a few hours away, in reality, from the commemoration of the anniversary of the Armistice of World War I. I bring this topic here because, certainly, the origin of many of the conflicts that have now occurred in the various states where there has been Kurdish population, or Kurdistan, has, certainly, origin in the end of the conflict in which the Ottoman Empire also participated and in the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire and the distribution of the territories that occupied this empire in different states– well, first protectorates, etcetera, eh? It's not about going over the whole story. And I'm saying it because it's not too bad to remember some of the issues that led to the war. Precisely a French socialist whom I have recalled here on some occasion, also on the anniversary of the First World War, Jean Jaurès, who was murdered at the hands of a French nationalist to oppose the beginning of the First World War, said that capitalism carries in itself the war as the cloud carries the storm, didn't it? And when we talk about Syria's conflict, and in reality when we talk about any armed conflict of these characteristics, more than anything else that can be seen with identities and with the will of some people or on the part of a people to form an independent state or not, more than that, there are also many other interests at stake. Because no one escapes that, when we talk about Syria's conflict, we are talking about a particularly complex conflict in which a civil war has also turned into a war between regional and global powers. When the Kurdish militias get the support, initially... – and as the withdrawal of the support is withdrawn, I don't think anyone hides it, it's a well-known fact – they get the support of the United States and other potentials associated with the United States. And so, too, arms transfers from the United States. For which, in the young man's case, no one has protested either. And you could say, "Well, it was to defend yourself from aggression. Certainly, the Kurdish people, the Yazidi people, are objects of persecution. I have been on the side of dictatorships like the Iraqi, with cases of civilian population gassing; I have been on the side of civil conflict like the Syrian, on the side of organizations like the Islamic State and also in conflict situations with the same Syrian regime. Still, it doesn't seem like there's just a few conversations, but a few agreements, huh? All as strange and as complex as the conjunct of the Syrian conflict. But we would also find it difficult, to say so, to have an absolutely safe view of the conflicting parties. That is to say, there is a 2015 Amnesty International report, which accuses certain Kurdish militias, the YPG, in concrete terms, of displacing Arab and Turkmen populations from the territories they were setting up and, finally, of the destruction of honest populations. I do not say this, let us say, to defuse the need of the Kurdish people to have some kind of protection in front of which are clearly risks of ethnic cleansing, among other things for Turkish invasion, not only for too many Turks, but also with Syrian militias promoted for Turkey. And so, the only thing I'm trying to do is bring the vision that this is a hugely complex conflict, which doesn't mean that we don't have to pronounce it. It seems to us – and we will vote in favour of several of the points contained in the resolution – that we can denounce any attempt to move by force of weapons population from one territory to another territory, continue inside the Syrian State, continue in other directions. Because, among other things, Syria is a..., it looks like a topical, but actually a cultural crevice. From the point of view, let's say, ethnic, there are Arabs, Kurds, Armenians, Palestinians, Turkmens, Greeks... If, moreover, we enter into other forms of identity, Coptics, Druzes, Alauites, Yazidites, Assyrians, Circassians, Sunnis, Shiites, Ismaililites, Chaldeans, Maronites, Syrians, among others, the late Aramaics are found there. It seems to us that both Syria and any other right, it is generally a very bad idea to try to match the borders of the nation with the borders of the state. The same Kurdish militias, which are obviously from different parties and different political options, but have come together with others in a coalition that is called Syrian Democratic Forces, which are not, as such, questioning Syria's territorial integrity. That it does put in doubt, in change, invade it by part of another state, as is Turkish. Invasion that, as was said, has denounced itself. There are coordinated actions of the member states of the European Union in this sense...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.173.0	Ahabi, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.174.0	And I finish, because, actually, I don't have any more time, but I think that on this subject it would be a good thing for us to have a more in-depth debate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.175.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the turn of Congresswoman Yolanda López, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.176.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... on Sunday we attended a counting of votes that consolidated in the Congress of MPs the far right. As they opened the doors to racism, xenophobia and homophobia, while there was room for those who defended the use of weapons, eleven_mile_kilometres, in Bolivia, there was a coup d'état. A coup d'état for wanting to regain economic sovereignty before large corporations and transnational corporations and curb spoliation. Because Bolivia is the Latin American country that has declined the most in the last decade the poverty rates of its population and that which all the indicators place as the one of greater stability and economic growth of the Latin American continent. Another sabotage of an attempt to oppose factual powers and rule on the side of the people. Just as it has been since the beginning of October in Rojava and Kobane, with the irresponsible and premeditated decision of the United States to withdraw its army and give way to the military offensive initiated by Erdoğan ; a military offensive aimed at ending the Kurdish people and their self-government, and destroying the experience of democratic radicalism being carried out and the aspirations of self-government of 1,700,000 Kurds, which have also contributed at first instance to the fight against the threat of the Islamic State in the region. Women who freed thousands of women from Islamic State slavery are now being bombed by an army belonging to NATO, women who have been the vanguard in building an alternative, democratic and ecological social model. A month ago today, the co-chairwoman of the Syria Future Party, Hevrin Khalaf, was killed and tortured in an ambush when she was going to visit injured and displaced persons in the Tal Tamir region. In recent weeks, the Turkish army and its jihadist allies have killed more than two hundred civilians and wounded more than six hundred; at least 300,000 people have been displaced from their homes; 85,000 children have been forced to stop their studies, and more than 5,000 teachers have been left out of work. We fully support the condemnation of the military offensive, the rejection of the role of the United States and the call on the Government to join our condemnation. Nor should we forget that Turkey, which is bombing the Kurdish population today, has also been a major customer of the Spanish military industry. Over the past three years, exports of more than 716_million_de_euros have been achieved; the material sold to the Erdoğan Government includes bombs, torpedoes, rockets and missiles, as well as chemical and biological agents or parts for a training aircraft. It is not enough, then, to condemn other governments, we must ensure that we are never complicit in images such as today's from Syria, Yemen or Gaza, caused by other good customers of the Spanish arms industry. We must stop the war business and defend, rather than massacre, those experiences of socialism and democracy that are being threatened. It may be more difficult since last Sunday, but now more than ever Europe and Spain have to fight those who defend weapons to stand by those who defend democracy. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.177.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of the deputy Vidal Aragonese, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.178.0	Vice-President, to speak from the Escó. We want to make two preconceptions: the first, to advance that we will vote favorably on all and each of the points of the present motion, and the second, to convey our solidarity to those who are fighting at these times against what is simply barbarism and irrationality – the Kurdish people are patenting it for years, are victims of persecution, repression and discrimination; also in a very special way to those who have decided to leave their lives to fight against this and to defend the political project of democratic confederalism. That said, we also wanted to give some very concrete reflection on the motion. At point 1 it speaks..., or when it speaks of the offensive to Rojava – or against Rojava, better said –, which is about Turkish armed forces, it would also be necessary to never forget the participation of gihadists, already if we give them the name of escamot or give them the false name of militias. Also the power to speak clearly of genocide, which is what is happening in this area. And in relation to item 7, perhaps you have been more careful and necessary not to have the reference of the "Kurdistan Siria, but to make the reference of the north and east of Syria. All that said, obviously, they are great contributions, because what we also want is to fully appreciate who he did... to the proposing group, to the proposers of the young man. And, of course, we could have made statements about this content, but they seemed unnecessary to us, because in its conjunction the motion seems to be all right. We must also think, for the future, after the approval of the present, in concrete measures that can accompany the struggle of the Kurdish people, as could be the exclusion of the air space, for a band, or also the Kurdish representation in the Geneva Convention. In any case, as we moved forward with the intervention, we would vote in favour of all and each of the points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.179.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of Deputy Daniel Serrano, of the Subgroup of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.180.0	Thank you, President. From the seat. The truth is that it is surprising that the proposing group of the motion, as a result of previous questioning, brings us a motion of these characteristics. You, who are unable to rule in Catalonia, to legislate despite having a parliamentary majority, to carry out a budget, even unable to solve the serious problems that the Catalans have, come with this motion to appear hypocritically, that you want to solve the problems that the Kurds have; to appear to be concerned about the rights of the Kurds when here one day yes and another also run over the rights of the Catalans who do not think like you – this morning we have been witnesses once again. For I say to you that you act hypocritically, you do not care about the Kurdish people, you do not care at all. Each of the separatist parties that have intervened has always expressed the parallelism of the Kurdish people with Catalonia, trying to establish a comparison that is hateful – is hateful – because any similarity is pure coincidence. Here, talking about « tsunami, » self-determination of Catalonia, with the intense and serious problems that exist in Kurdistan, is very hypocritical, not welcome. Since it is not acceptable for the Parliament of Catalonia to express itself on a matter of competition, on which it cannot and must not. The European Parliament has already been expressing its views on this situation in Kurdistan, and convictions have been established by all political parties represented in the European Parliament. Therefore, not only do you intend to exercise powers that you do not have, but you are not dedicated to exercising those that you do. Therefore, I am no longer going to ask you to govern, I am not going to ask you to exercise your powers; what I am asking you to do is to convince Mr Torra to dissolve this Parliament and call for elections and to end up with this comedy that is no longer going on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.181.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, to pronounce on the papers presented, has the word the deputy Ferran Civit. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.182.0	Thanks again. First of all, thank the deputy of the commons for their contributions, in this case, to the intervention. Also thank the Deputy of Junts for Catalonia, that we accept the papers. Also the contributions, in this case also of content, of the deputy of the CUP, with which we are totally in agreement with all the contributions he has made, from the first end to the last. There have been other points that, in this case, we will not support, for obvious reasons, because basically what they come to say is that the borders are sacred. And we here have made it clear that if societies change, the frontiers are not sacred, it is not a work of God..., and it would also be another debate whether God exists or not, but it is not a work of God, so they are not immutable. The world evolves, societies evolve and, logically, the cities of Kurdistan and the Near East or any society of the world need debate, democracy to be able to solve their problems, and not aggressions through armies or police. That's why it's very important that we keep in mind... that I bring this proposal forward, that we give support to Kurdistan, but we also give support to all the peoples of the world who fight for the right to self-determination. Because we keep in mind that we're talking about thousands and thousands of collective identities on the planet, but we're talking pretty much about two hundred states. Therefore, these themes will always be hot. And today we're talking about Kurdistan, we're talking about Catalonia or we're always talking about a lot of countries, because when in a previous intervention someone was talking about that it's a debate that should have more depth, certainly, but in the end it's always said that to escape..., as it is said in my paternal language, to drain the bulge. Indeed, it is necessary to speak more deeply, and to speak more deeply in order to debate democratically, and in the case of Kurdistan, and in the case of Catalonia, it is to debate it through politics and to debate it through a referendum. That's why Turkey and Spain are following and talking. [[the clock shows the camera a sign]] , because there is no more solution than this: dialogue, talk with fear and freedom. This is what it is all about: follow, speak, dialogue and enjoy democracy. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.183.0	Thank you, Congressman. Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] Say, Mr. Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.184.0	We ask him to vote separately from point 6, for a band, and from points 5 and 8, that they could go together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.185.0	Yes, Mr. Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.186.0	Thank you, President. To ask for a separate vote on all the points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.187.0	All of them. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to take your scons... [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.188.0	All right, we'll go to the vote. All points separately, eight points. Let's vote first place point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 87 votes to 40. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting three now. The vote begins. This point was approved by 87 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. And we're voting now on 4. The vote begins. This point was approved by 87 votes in favour, against and 40 abstentions. And we're voting five now. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 70 votes to 40, with 17 abstentions. And now we're voting point number six, the conjunction of point six, huh? Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. This point was approved by 70 votes to 21, with 36 abstentions. And now we're voting point number seven. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved by 87 votes to 40, with no abstentions. And now we're going to vote number eight. The vote begins. Point 8, and further from this motion, was approved by 70 votes in favour, against and 57 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into investment in social policies]] [[302-00153/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on investment in social policies, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. It has the word, to defend it, the deputy Mrs. Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.189.0	Good morning. In recent weeks I have reviewed some of the interventions I have made since this very atril, and about two and a half years ago, we voted on a motion on housing, and in my intervention I wanted to recall the great mobilizations, back in 2011, in which citizens were protesting against a government formed by Convergence that had subjected the population to great cuts in social matters. And he recognized in that intervention that governing in times of crisis should not be easy at all, nor should it be a dish of good taste to be the executioner of the cuts. But I also showed that in difficult times what needs to be done is to prioritize. The Government of those then devoted itself to plundering the public coffers with 3 per cent and when the weak cows arrived, instead of prioritizing, what it devoted itself to was to remember in health, education and social policies. And when society came upon them, they had no idea other than to raise the stake of nationalism and cover all their trophies with a huge stellate. And that's nothing new, because they don't even have the merit of having invented that strategy, because anyone who knows the recent history of Europe knows where national populist strategies lead to blame a collective of all the evils produced by, precisely, bad rulers. Many of us have recognized and atrociously denounced what you have been feeding all these years. Already then I admitted that their move did not go wrong, because Convergence went from being the object of social protests to leading the independence mobilizations. But the thing was not there, because his compañeros of independenceist flag, Esquerra, because they also learned something about Convergence and in all these years they have done an entire master's degree in embezzlement. And it's just that we're in front of Jordi Pujol's advanced students. And they have spread out very quickly, and let me tell you that Jordi Pujol must be very proud of the Youth of Esquerra and the CUP for the forty-thousand euros that would have disappeared from University Square. [[Greetings.]] And it is difficult to find the differences between you, and, let us not be fooled, those who embezzled the money from the social funds are the heirs of Pujol, are the fruit of forty years of pujolist, who would not only have learned from him nationalist hatred, but also corrupt practice and the diversion of public money. And it must be made clear that corruption is all that public money misappropriation administration that is not protected by law. And it's the same if it's for private use or to impose your political project by skipping the law for braves. It's exactly the same, and that's something we all have to assume. Public money is money from citizens that is collected through taxes for purposes determined by law. And all you get out of there is corruption. Politicians only have to understand that when they access a post they do not have at their disposal the public goods to do whatever they want, either to increase the current accounts in Andorra, either to run you play on account of the money of the EREs, either to finance electoral campaigns, either to water client networks, either to benefit friends in public contests, either to print, to pay the ballots of the illegal referendum with the money of the social funds or to finance a coup to democracy. Some must understand that citizens do not choose every four years, or at least every four years, feudal lords to govern us in an absolutist way. They must understand that the public authorities must necessarily be governed by what is permitted by law and for the purposes set by law. Because otherwise, we would not be talking about a democracy, we would be talking about a tyranny. They can't do with public money whatever they want, without being accused of fraud and misappropriation. And that is why the motion that we from Citizens put to the vote today contains the following: first, a political condemnation of the embezzlement of public money used to cover the illegal referendum of 2017, diverted from, among others, the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families; second, a mandate for the Government of the Generalitat to be involved in the cause that derives from the sentence for embezzlement and sedition and claims the money that determines, for example, the Court of Auditors; third, the requirement of a commitment by the Government of the Generalitat not to embezzle or divert public money for any illegal activity or purpose; fourth, the mandate to actively fight corruption; and fifth, the fulfilment of the audit of the management of the General Directorate of Child and Adolescent Care. With this motion we want to start a very simple commitment: a commitment to the citizens, a commitment to honesty and democracy, a commitment to the democratic regeneration that Citizens have been demanding from their origins. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Because, do not be deceived, the corruption and impunity of the rulers are the two enemies, they are the two greatest enemies of democracy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.190.0	Congresswoman, thank you. To defend the papers presented, has the word in the first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.191.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, ordinary countries, ordinary governments, when there is a feeling that condemns their leaders or political representatives for the second five crimes and, in the case they are dealing with them today, by misappropriation, the Administration must stop paying attention to what has failed and what needs to be done, what steps must be taken to prevent that from happening. It's so easy to hear; it's been done on many occasions, many times. Because we are the guarantors of the money of the city council and we are the guarantors of the good functioning of the institutions. It is only fair that, for example, Esquerra Republicana defended a few months ago and together for Catalonia, when we held in this Parliament the opportunity to listen to the Director General of DGAIA, the former Director General of DGAIA, Mr Ricard Calvo, who is in a judicial process, because he presumably benefited from public contracts with which he had previously worked. And in those moments Republican Left, Mr. Councillor Chakir El Homrani and the secretary, also General of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, said that they would present themselves as a private accusation in this case, because they considered that there might be some kind of damage to the arches of the Government of Catalonia or even to the same department of welfare. We finally do not know whether they have done it or not, but this would be an example that would also explain the need for power, such as the institution, such as the government, to characterise itself also in the cause that occupies us and that occupies the motion presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. In this report we are talking about the need, in this motion, to condemn politically the misappropriation, to characterise the cause of the misdemeanour of the process and to take the necessary measures to fight corruption. Therefore, we do not speak – before we did so in the case of Mr Calvo – of a suspicion, but rather of a feeling. And, as we're talking about a sentence, we think that we are, that we must be able to present the Government of Catalonia as the accusation in this case. Regarding the motion, entering some articles, two things, one positive and one negative. I think Ciutadans here was wrong about this young man's title: he's not talking about investing in social policies, he's not a young man talking about investing in social policies; I understand that this is not the full route of investing in social policies that Ciutadans claims from this government. In any case, taking advantage of the inquiry, it was better to specify the more content, because, as a minimum, we had the opportunity to listen to the counselor respecting the topic of the misappropriation that occurred in the Generalitat of Catalonia. I therefore believe that you have been better able to correct the title of the proposal. We've filed a statement at point 2, because there's a time when you say that you need to claim the return of the bad money. And I want to read a paragraph of the sentence, because from the point of view of the independent parties think that there has been no misappropriation and, for another band, we have a feeling that you say that there has been. Says this paragraph: "From everything analyzed in the sentence it is clear that it is not true that it is condemned for an offence of misappropriation without having spent public money in the holding of the referendum, as various voices from independence point out. The Supreme Court believes that public expenditure for a lawful purpose is proven, even though it does not accurately quantify the exact amount. That court indicates that the judgment is referred to the Court of Auditors for the reinstatement and claim of the total amounts diverted. Therefore, there is public expenditure aimed at an unlawful objective, and that amount will be determined by the Court of Auditors. So, we, who have presented an issue at this point, which we have tried to negotiate and deal with Ciutadan and which, in the end, we did not get out of – we also announced that we would vote in favour of this point –..., we should have specified, under our point of view, the Court of Auditors, but we also extended the commitment on the part of the Government to be able to audit those contracts in force or future that can be done with undertakings that appear in the judgment, in order to avoid that, even though there was no charge – in some case some entrepreneurs until they have cancelled these bills – these cannot be paid for other lives. Finally it could not be, but I believe that among all, ladies and gentlemen, our responsibility is that the institutions are shielded against misappropriation and against the evil that can be done with public money; that it is not in any way and that, therefore, it would be better to put down the barriers and put down the necessary limits so that these things do not happen again. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Therefore, to ask, yes – and I finish – for the party that gives recollection to the Government that they use their political responsibility and that we clear, in this case, the Government of the Government of Catalonia of the misappropriation that has occurred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.192.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.193.0	Thank you, President. Parliamentarians, Members, the reading of the question raised in the final plenary and the motion for a resolution is basically "there has been misrepresentation, there is a feeling that there has been misrepresentation and from which cases can be brought before the Court of Auditors, as Mr Moreno said, and this is indeed the case; two, misrepresentation is also a form of corruption and, therefore, we articulate the mechanisms necessary to try to avoid corruption, and three, as far as public resources are concerned, are less resources for social policies. And this is the complete reading that we make of both the inquiry and the motion and that we perfectly share, we understand that it is perfectly viable. At the time of materialization in the House we find – the Socialist Group's deputy also said – the pot of which is the policies that have been stopped because the government has spent money on other matters that are, let's say, more parties and less for the benefit of the city council. They pose a point, which is point 5, which refers to policies to protect children and adolescents, which we obviously share, but we understand that there is a need for a more generic view of the damage caused by the fact that there is misrepresentation or corruption and, therefore, distraction from public resources in the context of social policies. And that's why it's imperative that this government has assumptions. This is as normal as asking the government to present assumptions, to approve assumptions and, as a minimum, to present assumptions, it turns out to be exceptional; we have a government that makes more than one year that they are ruling, that they have held two exercises and yet they have not submitted assumptions, and they have announced that they would present them for the year 2020, but the warmest to the water at this time. And, therefore, this is the point that we have added through a slogan, which has been accepted by the proposing group, so as to ask the Government not only that you do this exercise, also democratic, to present assumptions and that we can discuss with the representatives of the city council where the resources are allocated, but that it is a quantity that tends to 80_percent of the resources available to social policies; social policies, health and education. This is the proposal we made.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.194.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marta Vilalta has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.195.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, ordinary countries have neither caught nor taken any policies – and I say this with reference to how Congressman Raúl Moreno started – normal countries don't lock people in jail for their ideas. What did I say? In this young man, the City Group presents us with a series of points, but we see that they do not have the principle of reality very well tuned, in this logic that we have seen many times before, to interpret reality through this parallel vision, that they only understand in their own way and that each time fewer people share with you. And it doesn't surprise me, because they ended up in this lack of respect through expressions that we felt a lot the other day, like talking about an independentist cartel, and today with repeated disrespect to members of the government, with accusations directly to the Lower Councillor, who is currently politically seized, if the sentence is condemned to be the Councillor of Education, when she was the Councillor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families and, certainly, one of the drivers, together with this chamber, of the guaranteed return of citizenship. They just see what they want to see. And, therefore, we come to talk about misappropriation in your points 1, 2 and 3 of this motion. What misrepresentation? A non-expenditure misappropriation? Really? A non-expenditure misappropriation? But what's this? The sentence says: "Although there has been no expense and, therefore, use of public funds, it is considered a misrepresentation. As Congressman Moreno said: "You believe in proof, but you don't figure. Okay: "We don't know, but guilty, what that said. Actually, he can't hang on. And, therefore, it is obvious that there is no malfeasance, that you cannot claim what has not been paid for, as you do in this case, and by extension we say here and reiterate that you cannot be complicit in political persecution through this general cause against independence only because you do not share your ideas. She can't be an accomplice to this political persecution. In any case, if it's about claiming money, if it's about talking about the money that we have to spend and investing in social policies, in the policies that are most needed in our country, let's talk about, for example, the liquidation of the State of 2018 budget and that will not arrive until the coming year and, therefore, we don't currently have these moneys, which push around more than 2,000_million euros. Or we are talking about the recovery of VAT from Catalans, which the Government will not pass to the Generalitat, and, therefore, some money that cannot be invested in public policies in our country. Or we're talking about the money we could have if we didn't suffer the fiscal deficit we're suffering in our country. We can also talk about this, because precisely here is where a lot of money is leaked that we cannot invest so that we can meet all the needs, which is obviously there, in our country. While we have lots of envelopes to vote that not all the motion they have presented to us, we have done an exercise in wanting to put in value the fight against corruption; because here they will always find us. In fact, Republican Left has an impolite history of fighting corruption: not a case of corruption in the more than eighty-eight years of history. And so, in concrete terms, at this point in the fight against corruption, what we have done is to introduce a task, which has ended up trading, in order to protect alerters, too, through the proposal of law that we are working on, of comprehensive protection of alerters, and on which, therefore, we show our commitment that it can be approved, that it can be processed and approved as soon as possible. That is why we will vote in favour of this point, and also out of respect for all the people with whom we are working on this bill. Two last thoughts on the points that also complete this motion, this motion. Don't worry about the assumptions of 2020; they're working, and they're working well, so that they can again be as many social as possible. And we invite them, to all the Members and Members of this House, who, when they pass on here, in Parliament, so they vote for them to have all these resources that our country, the citizenry, is asking for. And, finally, there is no doubt, neither, that the government works and has in its highest priority the protection of childhood. We don't have to go back to what we do, what we have to do, what it is to do, to do an audit or to do the whole analysis..., and more will and will do well, so that there is no shadow of doubt in the public management of the department, the government, in this case, of the concrete case of the DGAIA, we are very calm, which is being analyzed..., will be analysed. I don't think they repeatedly come here to want to approve it very often. Don't be fooled – I finish –, they don't want a compromise to improve social policies through this young man. They have simply made this proposal to sweep it all over again and to interpret reality in its own way. But, as I gave them to the principle, every time less people interpret it as you do. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.196.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of the deputy Lluís Guinó. When you want...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.197.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, let me, first of all, note that there is, at least in the title, in the title of the motion, an obvious equivocation to the motion presented by the Ciutadans Group. And it is that this young man was not talking about social policies himself, but that what he was sure to put on the table and barricade, we would say, is the question that he has to deal with the political judgment of the Supreme Court, with the Supreme Court's condemnation and, in some way, also, to intervene in a debate that is very interesting, certainly, and that in Parliament there should be much more to talk about, that is the issue of corruption and which are the mechanisms that citizens have, for one band, and parliamentary groups, for the other, and Parliament, for the other, to resolve precisely these shortcomings and deficiencies for what it does to mechanisms to avoid corruption in the field of politics. This misconception and this contradiction have brought up to and all that the socialist deputy who specializes in social issues understood that corresponded to him actively participating in this movement, when really social policies – and you have recognized it, deputy – do not talk much about this movement. And so it would be good for us to determine exactly who are the areas to be dealt with in each of these motions. But, going into the background, if we are talking about corruption, we are absolutely in agreement that mechanisms and measures should be created or articulated to fight corruption, first of all, because the same system can detect iniciators if there is any doubt of corruption in the field of contract, for example, that much effort has been made to avoid precisely problems linked to corruption in the long run, and to focus on a question that has to do with our particular conscience and the way we do politics: we must be, from a moral point of view and from an ethical point of view, intact; and this also corresponds to us from a personal point of view. It is not enough that the system creates the mechanisms to fight corruption if the politicians really, from a personal point of view, do not defend or, somehow, do not work hard in their moral integrity, their integrity in the defense of public interests and, even so, what the specialists in matters say, that is public ethics. There are university professors, some specialists in subject matter who, in some ways, prioritize what is public ethics, which must also be in line with the private ethics of each school. It is certainly not possible to be a morally complete person if, from a private perspective, you are not, and therefore, from the moment when a non-full person participates in political activity and public activity, it is difficult if it is not from a private point of view to launch its public activity. It is a reference to another question that I also find interesting and that since Parliament has worked very cross-cuttingly in different parliamentary groups, which is the law of alerters. This is a proposal of law that we have an interest in, all parliamentary groups, in which you pull forward; each one from its perspective will somehow make the corresponding statements, but it is an important law, because the corruption alerters need to be protected, not just because of the consequences that they can accurately carry their warnings, but because the system deserves those people who take a step forward in risk to be protected by the system and by the same Administration, in precisely defending the public integrity of politics. There is another question in this young man too, and that has already been done by the Member of the Republican Left, who will vote for it, because they have accepted a question, which has to be seen precisely with questions of zero corruption. We are absolutely in agreement, and we insist that many mechanisms be created before and after decisions are taken, which go through comprehensive controls of everything you have to see very, very, very importantly and insisting on public administration contracting mechanisms. There's another question that I didn't... that I was running out of time and that I wanted to make reference to. And you have to see the concept of misappropriation in the Supreme Court's judgment. The Supreme's judgment..., you know that from a criminal point of view it has innovated a lot, that there is a lot of the criminal law that we have studied at universities over the last twenty-five years that certainly differs a lot from the approaches that are made, and indeed, great professors of criminal law. And on the subject of misappropriation there has been a point that you have to see..., which is that it has certainly been condemned for misappropriation councillors of the Government of the Generalitat without having made, obviously, an effective willingness to make money, when what really defined the type of misappropriation was precisely not so much to give order for payment, but it is actually produced. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] the provision of money. Therefore, in this problem and in this new criminal case that we have been creating or that the Supreme Court has been creating, that is, from a legal point of view, that is – not from a political point of view, but from a legal point of view – it is doubtful that the concept used by the Supreme Court to convict counsel is the most appropriate...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.198.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.199.0	...from that perspective. And perhaps you have more sense than ever that there are higher judicial institutions – of the European Union, for example – as was precisely the case today, that you have recognised the Member of the European Union...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.200.0	Congressman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.201.0	...that, even if it is not defined, it has stated that the elected representatives, the elected deputies are from the moment they have been voted for citizenship, and not for purely formal questions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.202.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.203.0	...it's obvious they're going to have to check... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.204.0	Congressman, don't miss it. Thank you... [[Greetings.]] On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, and to fix its position, has the word Mrs Marta Ribas. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.205.0	We are still with a few general elections in which, once again, the citizenry spoke before the polls, and said a few clear things. Especially he has said a few clear things to Ciutadans: that it serves no purpose, that it does not serve no purpose, that it does not serve no purpose, that its strategy of burning the conflict, of tension and of judicialization is not useful. That he did not serve the country, nor did he serve the institutions, nor did he especially serve the people of this country. It didn't help to face the way out of the blockade; I don't say anymore to try and go to real solutions. But it's that, in fact, it hasn't served you either in electoral terms. This strategy of taking fire, as much of those literally making it, taking fire, as of those politically making it, that has been Ciutadans in the past few years, with a special aggressiveness, only serves to cremate; taking fire only cream. And on cremated soil, the ultrathreat is the king. And that's what you got with this strategy. From what I've seen, I ask you: can I go on here? With the same strategy? With the same logic? So no. And what's certain is not with us, not with our complicity. What about the first two points of this building? What does a political condemnation of an issue that has already been ruled and that is in the hands of the Court of Auditors contribute to the construction? What perspective of unlocking hopes does it bring to follow here? We are in politics to be useful, and it is not useful today to continue to be part of the problem, which is what they are doing with this first point, and also with the second, adding more to the judiciary, which is what they are raising with the second point of this young man. That's not to say, we'll approve them, we'll approve them a few points. We will approve them that the government is not to mislead, obviously; we will approve them that they are to approve some assumptions; we will approve them that they are to be improved in management and in transparency, in DGAIA and much more useful – but they do not plant them in this motion – and that they are to fight forcefully against any signs of corruption. And today – and here I look Republican Left – the government has to be blunt, today, with a new case that is skitting from suspicions of diversion of public funds, in this case from the General Secretary of Sport, to finance a game: the old Democratic Convergence. It may be blunt in suspicions of corruption from institutions of all, with money of all. Mr. Guinó, this is not a case of personal ethics. So, today's case, beyond the personal ethics of the person who has been held and of how this investigation evolves or not, unfortunately sounds to more than one of the many, but repeated cases that we have had in this country of use and appropriation of the institutions of all, of use and appropriation of the Generality and of the money of all and of all for the benefit of a party: its. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.206.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party..., pardoned, of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Lord Vidal Aragonese. [[Widow's remorse.]] Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.207.0	The present motion is very definite of the group that the proposal, because it is entitled "investment in social policies and does not have a single quantification of investment in social policies; we do not say so, it is the title of the motion and it is the one that later became the same. They tried to pull a cable from the People's Party Group with a small reference, but they didn't just get out. We'll explain it to them. On point 1, we will not make a reprimand of what did not happen, which is the misappropriation of funds. On point 2, which is supposed to be a rescue action in relation to the alleged misappropriation of fonts. We will not vote in favour of two questions: one, politics– let us never accompany repression–, and the second, legal, how can we hold a sentence for misappropriation if it is not quantified in an individualized way and is an indirect remission to another court? The only one who says the sentence, which has not been mentioned before, is more than 250_000 euros, and not concrete, in any case. About the third point, we'll go ahead and explain why, we'll make an extension. It is clear to us that we are a banner of pursuing corruption; not only not keeping it at home, but chasing it, and therefore, in this sense, we would be absolutely in favour. But if on the day of tomorrow any government of the Government of Catalonia does social policies, the Constitutional Court cancels them and after that they want to disobey to apply social policies, we will be in favour of them. And that's obviously why we're abstaining on this point. About point four, we'll tell them we'll vote for it. In the fight against corruption we will always find all the groups and above all for the strength that has been made by the theme that refers to the specific issue of the alerters. And on the fifth point, which refers to the end of the 93/XII motion of this Parliament in relation to the hearing of the DGAIA, we have been working on this issue for years, we have already voted in favour; we would therefore also vote in favour, but we do want to say that today we do not know if this is being done or not being done on the part of the Government and, therefore, we would also vote in favour of this knowledge. If we are going to vote for it and if we are not going to vote for it, we are going to vote for it and, moreover, we are going to complain that you are doing it with the utmost urgency. And the last question: they don't make us plan the suspected corruption. We have no cases of corruption and, at times, we have also done an act, from our insistence, of persecution of corruption. What we're talking about today is corruption, reported to the CUP, what we're talking about innova, reported to the CUP, and so many other things. They can criticize us for what they want, but from what has never happened, we would ask them not to refer to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.208.0	And finally, to position herself on the exams, has the word again the deputy of new Mrs Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.209.0	Before I give my opinion on the amendments, I would like to say to Mrs Marta Vilalta that it is a lack of respect for the people in prison who are talking about embezzlement. What is a lack of respect is to call political prisoners criminals, seditious and embezzlers who have put their hands in the social funds box. [[Some applause.]] That's a lack of respect. And we insist on the audit of the DGAIA, because they have been delayed and have not even tendered the contract for that external audit. With regard to the amendments, therefore, as the previous Members have already said, we have accepted the amendment concerning the processing of the proposal for a law to combat corruption and comprehensive protection of whistleblowers, because, among other things, it was also a proposal for a law presented by Citizens, which is currently being submitted. We have accepted the amendment of the People's Party to increase the resources allocated to social policies in the budgets of the Generalitat because the previous budgets, however much they sold them as the most social in history, as has been seen, have been the most antisocial. With regard to the title, which has been commented on, well, we did so because we wanted to talk about how the social funds had been invested and also how the leaders had invested time in the council. Because in this Chamber we have already talked to the satisfaction of what has not been done, in what has not been invested: the Accessibility Act has not been deployed, the LGTBI Act has not been properly deployed, we have an outdated social service letter and that has done, that we have already spoken countless times, that we have the worst lists of dependency in Catalonia, that we are champions in child poverty or that extreme poverty in Catalonia has increased. That's what we've talked about in countless occasions. It was time to talk about what they were spending time and what they were spending on social funds. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And finally, with regard to the Socialist Party's amendment, obviously from our parliamentary group we suspect that the Supreme Court's ruling is only the tip of the iceberg. The Supreme Court only deals with criminal proceedings, obviously civil proceedings are reserved for the case that thrives in criminal claims; as they have prospered, they will leave it for the Court of Auditors. But, well, in any case, we are grateful for your vote on this point. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.210.0	We shall proceed to vote on this motion. Separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mr. Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.211.0	Thank you, President. To ask for separate votes from points 1 and 2, which may be joint; from points 3 and points 4 and 5, which may also be joint, or may be joint votes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.212.0	The 4th and 5th, which doesn't include the 4th, I understand, huh? Also in the same block, 4, 4 bis and 5? [[Pause.]] Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, ma'am Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.213.0	Separately, point 4, separate from 4 bis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.214.0	Okay. All right, so let's get to the vote. Let's vote, first of all, points 1 and 2. The vote begins. Points 1 and 2 were rejected by 57 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. We're voting point three now. The vote begins. The third point was approved by 65 votes to 61, with 2 abstentions. We're voting point four now. The vote begins. The quarter point has been approved unanimously, 128 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. We now vote on 4 bis and 5– 4 bis and 5. The vote begins. Points 4a and 5 have been approved by 67 votes in favour, 61 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into police actions]] [[302-00154/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government about the police's actions, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. To expose it has the word of Congressman Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.215.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, this is a human rights movement through which we intend to advance in the democratisation of our police after a few weeks in which we have seen – and I don't think anyone can deny it – repeat scenes of police brutality. I'd like to start my intervention by adding value to the work that makes different organizations, such as Iridia, Amnesty International, human rights organizations, and also We're Defenders or Eye with your Eye, Stop Goma Balls, in this whole pocket. Well, from now on we can ask the chamber today that Councilman Buch is reprobated for the mismanagement, both police and communicative, of the days after the sentence; for being the political leader of the use of rubber balls in Catalonia these days; for not having put up with the continued attacks on journalists; for not having reversed, or only having recognized, the police abuses that all of us have seen; for having been missing three days; for having helped to scale up the confrontation through a totally wrong police strategy and for not having been held accountable before this Parliament when it was asked to do so. Now, beyond reproach, our parliamentary group wants to help improve our police. This is not a motion against the good work done by the vast majority of the dissipated staff of the Squadron Movements, to whom we want to recognize their efforts and their willingness to serve the public, often under conditions of work that they do not deserve. What we are asking is the model of public order police that we have and that we have not only been able to live these days, but we have also seen in numerous cases of denunciations, that we have already seen, in fact, in the mobilizations against Pla Bolonya, against 15-M, in the general wave of 2012 and that during the past year, under the direction of Councillor Buch, has intensified with a clear increase of episodes in which the police have made an abuse or disproportionate use of force. In 2013, Parliament already approved the conclusions of the Commission of Study of the models of security and public order and of the use of anti-fouling material, which require a series of better, for us insufficient, but, in any case, approved in this chamber. The problem is that today many of these recommendations, many of these conclusions have not been implemented and, with the reason we present today, we are recovering some of these proposals and adding new ones, because we understand that they will help to democratize our police model from a human rights perspective. Because, I insist, we are not just before a problem of ill practices by some agents, but we are before a systemic problem of the police model and, therefore, before a political problem. This is why we propose: first, that when the security forces of the State act in Catalonia under the coordination of the Squadron Mosses, as happened these past weeks with the post-sentence operation, that, when this happens, that the Councillor of the Interior demands that the National Police and Civil Guard adapt their techniques and protocols to that of the Catalan police and, therefore, that they do not use rubber balls. The State and the law authorize the Councillor of the Interior to do so and so far has not done so. According to them, the Mosses stopped using the carousel technique, as they themselves had undertaken to do the last month of May, and they also withdrew, in terms of six months, the hunger guns, because many of the injuries we have seen these days – the testiculars, the pulmonarys and also the eyepieces – are not necessarily rubber balls; they are also foam projectiles. We ask that, as a minimum, it is made public the instruction that regulates the use, as established by the European Code of Ethics of the police. Third, which is a guarantee that journalists can do their job safely, we don't want to see journalists hurt again. Fourth, that they investigate and are held accountable in all cases where there is some indication of an anti-regulatory use of police tools or of an improper use of force, and also those cases of connivance between police officers and Faixist groups, such as those that we also, unfortunately, were able to see. And five, and the most basic, as requested by human rights entities from here to Catalonia, which is already once again reviewed the rules governing the identification of police officers with public functions to ensure that all agents carry identification always and clearly visible, before and after. It is a basic principle of a democratic police force and it seems incredible that today, in Catalonia, we still see public officials acting without visible identification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.216.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mr Carles Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.217.0	Good morning, everybody. Companies and companies of commons, come out of the process of papers, because their motion, especially in its original wording, and still in some of its points, was absolutely demagogic, and also a parliamentary trap, in which, certainly, they already advance it, we do not fall. His agenda concealed the only one he intended to leave the Socialists badly and cause the Juntes per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana to vote differently or to join in positions of irresponsible questioning of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, as they have actually achieved a little. This was his hidden agenda: not to change things, not to look at problems maturely and look for real changes; mark a point and put a paranoia to make us seem inconsistent. What did they think? That we would vote in favour of failing Councilman Buch's management? You, in your supine and maximum irresponsibility, give him today a parliamentary victory because, in order not to fall into his trap, in his parany, we are forced to go out and defend him in his charge. We, who are the ones we have always criticized for his management. [[Greetings and voices from "Bravo!]] Thank you. Are you not aware that if Mr. Buch resigns, that he is the one who wants President Torra and other radical independenceists, the alternative would still be the toughest line and would still be more tense about the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad, which is already quite tense about the situation we have? Aren't you aware of this? The worse: they are. Your young man's been slowing down. It is a monument to the damage to the police from a left who do not understand that the problems can look them in the face, and not seek easy applause on the one hand, angry and frustrated, of the citizenry. Politics, companies and companies, that's another thing. It is not about making populism with rumbling statements that have no practical application. Conditioning the collaboration of security forces and bodies to anything is barbarity. When you talk about any collaboration, it's a barbarity of cosmic proportions. To point out a bit, to condition any collaboration amounted to saying that they intended to condition it on the subject that it was, giving equal importance to it. Pretty strong! They also claim, for example, to make forecasts for those who, as you know perfectly well, have no competence in this Parliament. What I gave them: a pure exercise of ideological exhibitionism. They run from convincing who has the competence to get what they want, but they are outraged and content to get an empty statement. Then we have another range of points that are in calaix, that in calaix you have to agree, that it is taking action in actions that are poorly executed or executed outside the Rules. All right, but we can't open a general case against Mossos d'Esquadra and do, as the government has done, through the proposals of the joint parliamentary groups for Catalonia and the Republican Left..., talking about analyzing all police activities. Totes? Everyone, say the groups that support the government. Oh, my God! Imagine what it's like to find the squadron's movements right now feeling this from your government. Among other things, ladies and gentlemen of the House, because it is nothing since the beginning that we have not begun to do from the very same thing as Mossos d'Esquadra, in a process of continuous reflection and improvement, as the Councillor always reminds us. Or the carousel, which on the 30th of May of this same year, the result of this internal reassessment of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, has already decided to use in general and which is only reserved for situations of heavy alterations of the civil safety. Because, before anyone gets their hands on the head, the carousel's tactic does not consist – what a barbarity! , companies of commons – to address people with police vehicles at full speed; it consists of dispersing protesters by serving the police vehicle. And it's not a minor morning, because if it's fast, putting people in danger, it's doing bad. If it's not done under security conditions, it's done badly. We, with our concern, which has not been accepted by ordinary people, intended to explain this and to leave the decision, limited to really difficult cases, of risk, to controlled speed and to guarantee the safety of demonstrators, naturally. This is trusting in the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, in its professionals, contrary to what it does in general, and above all in its original text – and look what I feel I have to say –, the motion presented for the group of commons. Because you are going to attribute an attitude not only directly criminal to the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, but absolutely evil, because they practically say that they ran into demonstrators in the mail. It's unbelievable. That's not what I'm counting on with us. Some of the points of her motion, of course, we'll approve of them. But those I said, don't even talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.218.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mr Jean Castel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.219.0	Thank you, President. There is no councillor... – it is strange that there is no councillor, the Councillor of the Interior – Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, I will start with a word that you used, which is "democracy". The police are already democrats; all the police units of the Generality, of the Government of the State, where there are Squad Mosos, National Police and Civil Guard, are democrats, and you will not come here to democratize, as it were, no police. [[Greetings.]] I look at the Councilman's failure, as I said the last day to the Commission of the Interior, in many cases we will fail him for many years, but you here have made it from a young man who, if we see that he is going towards the events of that terrible week... so, we here already advance him that we will abstain. Because you, first of all, didn't realize it. But I'm also saying, "Failure the councilman...," we have a big decage, we have the last twenty-four hours, with the facts..., the mood we've seen in Jonquera's town hall. Look, we've presented you with papers, you didn't want to accept us, but I'll start... You've already made some of that commission that was working the year 2013 and what came out in the form of a recommendation... I want to remind you: recommendation. I, these last few times, have seen and heard that there is a law against pilots... Listen to me, there are recommendations, and you think that it was left on the 24th of the fifth, that among other things you say: "For this reason it is necessary to initiate immediately the withdrawal of rubber pilots, which must be gradually replaced... "Replaced gradually, which has not been done. And you intend to remove everything that our police have in one way, as the PSC's companion has already said, demagic, insulting and irresponsible in the first place that was the young man you presented to us. But if you have advanced and turned the full – and this is what I want to read literally – you have found recommendation 27, which says: "The government must ensure that, in the protocols drafted to this effect, the use of rubber pilots and the water platform is conceived as tools of resorting – " tools of resorting. And, thanks to God, these recommendations typified what were the possible situations we could find. One of them is the violence exercise, where there is imminent risk for the physical integrity of citizens' lives, police officers and, as a result, "where there is a major destruction of the assets. They've all come together, and besides, I'd say they've outdone themselves, in many cases. And, look, we wanted to present you with ideas that we understood to be responsible, that you did not accept any, such as thanking and recognizing the security forces of the State – Mossos, National Police and Civil Guard – its effectiveness and professionalism. To work to guarantee the rights that have been working, in any case, to guarantee the tranquillity of our streets, guaranteeing the freedoms, the fundamental rights of democracy in our country and in our autonomous community. Look, urge the government and Mr. Torra, concretely, to stop at once all the witch hunt that they have started between the Squad Coast, a hunt for our agents, where we would also like to see a hunt more responsibly started for everyone, for all those people who had to identify that they have been crossing the streets of Catalonia this last time. Miri, airports, trains, wagons have been taken care of; the goods and our streets have also been destroyed and urban furniture burned, looting trades. As I say, gathering at all times and recognizing the work our agents do. We feel that it is an apology, that it is an apology for that initial motion; that it is an apology to Mr. Torra for these commissions of investigation that he wants to carry out, and we also urge to promote the delivery of distinctions and medals to all those police who deserve it, who have carried out their work as they always do, with vocation and dignity to wear the uniform of the Cos de Mosso d'Esquadra. Before that, we would ask that you come today and have the opportunity to apologize to what you intended to do in a very demagic way. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.220.0	On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the return of Mr Ferran Roquer. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.221.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Parés, perhaps if Mr. Saura was in his parliamentary group he wouldn't have let him ask for Mr. Buch's resignation because he would know what to do when the Interior Department is run. He recalled the other day that 14,000 signatures called for the resignation of Mr. Saura; that four rubber balls had made evil eyes of the citizenry in the mandate of Mr. Saura. And it's that when it's government it's got to manage what's in the street and what's in the street sometimes it's not easy. You said Mr. Buch doesn't go to Parliament. Mr Buch asked for more than fifteen days before the election, to compare with the Internal Affairs Committee and, in fact, it seems to me that he will do so the week he sees. The squadron moves do not use rubber balls, precisely, because a command of this Parliament deprives them of doing so. And I'd like to put a little in a situation where the street was at the time of getting out of the feeling and at the time of managing all these circumstances. Since 2012, there has been a civil, democratic, independent movement in this country that usually has to be peaceful, not evil. The people who run those movements, those social and political movements, are in prison sentenced to one century in prison. It's normal for this society to feel disappointed, and it's normal for them to feel that a paradigm that had existed was unravelled, and I said, "Without violence, you can talk about everything, you can do everything." So no, no rape you can't go to jail, too. It took time for the state apparatuses to talk about violence in Catalonia, about the violence of the independence movement. And what cocktail did he give? Infiltrated, habitual groups to protests and young absolutely disappointed, that are neither hierarchically organized, nor are they an army of violent, nor are they exalted rescues, as has been repeated continuously and repeatedly. Yes, they were, but they were disappointed and angry and they went out to manifest. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.222.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.223.0	They went out to manifest, and on some occasion, perhaps, they went to commit, they went from the limits of what was to be expected in their manifestation. But what's going on here? That detainees fall into a judicial system, into a Spanish judicial system that has become accustomed to using pre-trial detention and temporary detention as a gain to exemplify what is not to be done and what is to be done; that is, only to certain collections: now I think of La Manada, for example. And no, we will not support the reprobation of Councillor Buch, we will not give it to us and we hope that you will not ask, for example, the reprobation of Minister Fernando Grande-Marlaska Gómez or the delegate of the Government, Teresa Cunillera, for example. With respect to other points, we are absolutely in agreement that all the forces and security features that operate in Catalonia must serve the same parameters that make use of the Squadron Mosses, and more so when this recommendation comes from a group of experts and has been approved for this Parliament. Therefore, no one in Catalonia should be injured by a rubber bullet, because Catalonia should not be able to use rubber balls. You ask us to watch, to worry about unjustified situations. My group, together with the Republican Group, tabled a motion for a resolution calling for the investigation of police activities and, in the event that there is no undue or inadequate protocol-based investigation, for the establishment of the internal investigation mechanisms, the responsibilities which lie ahead and are punished in those which use ill practice. Because systems are not good or bad for themselves, those that use the police, but that, on occasion, certain police use systems poorly. In short, we reject and demand that the incisive behaviors be aligned with the independence demonstrations. We do not want to criminalize the independence movement, which I have said, traditionally, has been civil and peaceful. We ask the judiciary not to use extreme measures such as unconditional imprisonment or incommunicado detention, such as a thing that is served every day, which only applies in extremely punctual situations. The cos de Mossos d'Esquadra is full of good professionals and good public servants. We defend the body, we define the responsibilities that can be derived from inappropriate or not protocol-adjusted actions. And, mirin, advanced societies and Catalonia are not, need to protest, is intrinsic to democracy, protest. It's good that they do it, and especially young people. This doesn't turn them into a terrorist group or anything that comes together, maybe it's the embryo of a critical and just society, learning and demanding with their rights and their rights. Sense of doubt, that all of us in this Parliament want. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.224.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Ms. Montserrat Fornells has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.225.0	Many thanks, President; Members, Members, very good morning to everyone. After the verdict of October 14th, which was unfair to our political prisoners and prisoners, this led to the citizenry of our country responding to demonstrations and concentration in the territory. We were able to see some police actions that didn't please us and that some of us were puzzled by the disproportionate use of force. On behalf of our group, we will vote in favour of most of the points of this motion. For what it does at point 2, we are going to ask the Government of the State of Pedro Sánchez that all the police units operating in Catalonia adapt and respect the protocols that this Parliament has approved for the Catalan police, to guarantee public order while operating here, without obviously forgetting the complaint that we have already made in this Parliament to withdraw its presence in Catalonia. For what it does at point 3, we agree not to use the operating technique of the trolley, since this is not justifiable, its use, and we consider it dangerous. For what it does at point 4, we are in favour of journalists being able to guarantee the right to inform and work in a safe way without anyone hitting them. From here I take advantage to give all the support and recollection to those journalists who suffered some aggression in the past weeks during the demonstrations that were taking place in our country. In point 5, our group will vote in favour of the point a, since we are defenders that the police of Catalonia always act with the utmost transparency on the criteria for the use of anti-slavery materials. In fact, this is an explicit demand that we have been asked and made by different entities in favor of human rights. To point b, we will not give support, since we believe that a young person is not the right place to define, where to decide who are the means of what the security features of our country should be. Remember – other companies have done this that have preceded me – that to eliminate rubber drivers it was hard to finish, in a model way, through a study commission and the conclusions that will follow. In point 6, at this point we are in favour, we have already manifested it on various occasions and so I directed myself in this pharystoll, the last full. In a democratic police force that always investigate and debug those actions that have not been made appropriate to existing protocols. In fact, the company Roqué has stated this, the two groups have also submitted a motion for a resolution, which will be debated by the Commission of the Interior, and, in fact, it has also approved – they have also commented – a committee of inquiry on behalf of the Government where to discuss and discuss these issues. In point 7, let's consider, there is agreement and we will vote in favour that when investigating the bad practice there may have been, if that is the case, co-existence or possible co-operation with relocation companies or faixist groups. At point 8 we agree that a clear and visible identification of the NOP, is to say, of the police number of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, that it develops public functions, as marked by European regulations, and that we know that the department is working there to implement it. This, this correct and visible identification, guarantees the legal security of agents who comply with the protocols and act in congruence, with proportionality and opportunity and, moreover, also gives security to demonstrators, who can defend themselves if this is not guaranteed. And, besides, it's also a demand that we have been asked by different human rights defenders. For what it does at point 9, we agree that it is necessary to review the protocols of action that regulate how the police should act in cases of denunciations, to make it clear and to remember that the movements act to give compliment to a court order and we have always said and manifested that we did not like the images of like the National Police and the Civil Guard acted the 1st October before peaceful people who were before the electoral colleges, so we do not want to act like peaceful people in any other case. And at 10 we'll vote against it because we don't want to prevent the trained people from coming in to improve these units. Now, maybe what's hot is a general organized review of the model and of these units, and the way it's not stopping the entry of new promotions. To finish, make a quote to everyone to continue working for an exemplary model, model and closer to the citizenry. We work with rigour, coherence and without demagoguery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.226.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, has the word Ms Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.227.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, Mr. Roquer, and now I'm referring to point 2 of this young man, he said that we should also have called for the resignation of Marlaska and Cunillera, it's clear that, obviously, what you might also have done is go out and deny Marlaska's statements when he said that the Interior Department was in the case of the whole operation and that he had accepted all the actions and that it had been done in coordination with the Squad Mosos. We have asked you that you are not in coordination with the National Police, Catalonia in Comú, to ask you even less, to ask you that you are in coordination only if the National Police serves, as a minimum, the rules that have been approved in this Parliament and the instructions of the regulations that make the Mossos d'Esquadra. We will abstain, because it is not our proposal, but it is neither you nor this. Then, do not use the carousel technique, it seems lying that we will be asking for this in this Parliament. Let's not attack journalists... home! Normally, it is that in any democratic society journalists should be able to develop their work with normality. They don't use foam projectiles. That's what Congresswoman Fornells said that she did here, putting together a study group... that some conclusions were drawn, right? And that it was an impeccable job to respect the use of rubber balls, and it turns out that the conclusions of this study group have not been fulfilled. It's that the other day came the collectors who worked on this study committee and told us that there were repair protocols that have never been activated, never in life! And therefore, I do not know when to approve that certain anti-slavery materials are not used which have been shown to have very serious consequences for their misuse, it is a question of model, the representative of the motion for a resolution has already said. It's just that it's not a winged fact. The facts that we are living are very hard and you don't recognize it, it's that they still use expressions like "if it was the case, that's what Congresswoman Fornells said, "if it was the case that there was cooperation with some "Desokupa's killing"... That's what we've all seen, that's what's happening. What if it was the case? Recognize the reality, as at least. It's that it's a minimum for the people who are patenting police violence on the street. Investigation, look, the other day we talked to Lluís Monell, precisely because of the reason we presented, and we told them that there was no problem, that we accepted the papers that they proposed to us, in fact, we accepted certain papers and they didn't even vote for them, we still don't understand why. And let's say, well, we accept the papers respect the investigation, that it doesn't even recognize the facts, but let's wait for the investigation, but let's do it through an independent body, that it's not all about internal afers, as Mr. Roquer said, because we already know the opacity of internal afers. We already know what happens when one of them reported to the same cop who beat him up, the violation of human rights. And we asked them how long ago Iridia, how long ago Amnesty International, an independent body to investigate police practices. And they told us that yes, that I agree, but I don't know why a little before it didn't serve this independent body anymore. It seems that corporatism in police bodies passes before the human rights of the people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.228.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs. Esperanza García has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.229.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, the assault on the police is usually part of one of the classic damage to the left of the caviar, isn't it? But even Mr. Saura, when he was an Inner Councillor with the tripartite, he had to renounce these prejudices. Look, exactly two days have passed since you voted, together with the separatists, to take out the Civil Guard of Catalonia. And with this young man they've presented today, what they're still doing is doing the CUP branch tasks and you just have to read the content of the young man's job to see him. Look, the moves require a good direction, on this we agree. Is Mr. Buch the best director of the Mosses? The best political direction of the Mossos? We believe that no, but we do not agree with calling for a reprimand to Mr. Buch, in any case, for the design of the post-sentence operation of the Supreme Court. They need a good technical direction, obviously we do and we think they don't have it; you don't ask for reprobation, so we won't vote for it. But they also require resources; resources that you deny with this motion. What you want – it seems – is for the moves to be faced before terrorism, with the hands tied to the scale, without any resources. And we'll either support this. Because the function of maintaining public order and guaranteeing the public freedoms of the Squadron Movements is mostly exemplary, despite who weighs it, and can not be criminalized, in any case, with general insidies in this task, because these general insidies are more produced by a mind-set than you have for many years. Because you say, we present this motion, textually: "to help improve the police. Or, to help improve the police is to vote in favour of the expulsion of police units? Is it criminalizing them? Is it to leave them without technical or material constraints before urban terrorism? We don't think so. This young man and you are talking about "human rights to police brutality," but this young man is more involved in a Torquemada interview against police bodies that really help because police bodies are more effective, with more democratic guarantees in Catalonia than what this young man says.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.230.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To pronounce on the papers, has a turn, again, the deputy Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.231.0	Well, I see that the young lady has severely disturbed various groups of this chamber, in any case, I take the words of Mrs. Fornells, who I think really dig a debate about who is the police and public model we want for Catalonia. I wanted to thank, too, the good disposition, in reality, both of the deputy Castle and of the deputy Roquer to work some of the items that we have, indeed, worked. In some I liked to agree and it was not possible, after hearing the intervention..., surely because there was no intention to agree and to justify a vote of revalidation of Mr. Buch to the head of the Interior Council. But in any case, Mr. Roquer, tell him also that Councillor Buch, when he came here to the inquiry, did not answer any of the questions I asked him, among them – all that we already know – who was in the lead, who was in the lead of the CECOP, coordinating the post-sentence police operation, which he was, Councillor Buch and, therefore, he is the most political leader as the coordinator of this police operation. Indeed, the motion that we have put forward is what we want to move forward in democratizing the body, because it speaks of human rights, and for us to move forward in human rights is to democratize; and let us not just say it ourselves, but the majority of points, if the motion has been read, come from proposals that make human rights entities with which it would be good if the rest of the groups, such as PSC, Citizens and PP had gathered to listen to their better proposals. And I just went to the Republican Left Company. Today you have the opportunity to disengage yourself from the police model of Councillor Buch, to disengage you from the repression and brutality we have seen during the past weeks, to be consistent between what is said in the electoral campaign and what is voted after the campaign. And so what you're asking is that you stay strong, that you join our proposal and start showing that there's another possible course for this country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.232.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. Separate vote was requested from point 2, from one band, and from the other a package with point 1, 3, 5.b, 9.a, 9.b and 10. [[Maria Sirvent I write asking to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.233.0	To ask for a separate vote from point 10, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.234.0	Okay. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, ma'am Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.235.0	Separately, from the block he said, point 1, on one side, and 5.b, on the other; and I think they've asked for point 10 now too?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.236.0	Yeah. Yeah, yeah. [[Marina Bravo Sobrino asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Bravo...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.237.0	I don't know if it will interest you, of all the points and subpoints, because we would ask for the 1, of the 4, of the 5 and the subpoints, of the 7 – which could be together –, of the 8 and the subpoints, and of the 9 and the subpoints.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.238.0	The subpoints, you mean separately? [[Pause.]] So, actually, we'll end up voting for it all separately. We've been calling for a vote, then? Let's go vote for the senate. Let's get started on the number one point. The vote begins. Point 1_has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 73 against and 42 abstentions. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 67 votes to 40, with 19 abstentions, and 1 Member present who has not voted. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 86 against, no abstentions, and 1 Member present who has not voted. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we're voting 5th point now. The vote begins. Point 5.a_has been approved by 96 votes to 31, with no abstentions. We're voting now on point 5.b. The vote begins. The 5.b_point was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 116 against and no abstentions. And now we're voting point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 87 votes to 36, with 4 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 7. The vote begins. Point 7.a_has been approved by 123 votes to 4, with no abstentions. We're voting now on point 7.b. The vote begins. Point 7.b_was approved by 123 votes in favour, 4 against and no abstentions. We're voting for point 8.a now. I don't know if the hood felt for itself, because sometimes it happens that... yeah, we vote point 8 and then 8th, huh? Therefore, we vote for the capping of point 8. The vote begins. Point 8, the encapsulation, in this case, has been approved by 122 votes in favour, against and 4 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 8.a– 8.a. The vote begins. Point 8.a_has been approved by 87 votes to 40. And now on 8.b. The vote begins. Point 8.b_was approved by 123 votes in favour, against and 4 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 9. The vote begins. Point 9. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Encapsulation, yes, yes. The vote begins. The 9_point cap was approved by 86 votes in favour, against and 40 abstentions. And we're voting now on 9th to 9th. The vote begins. Point 9.a_has been rejected by 39 votes to 48, with 40 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 9.b– 9.b. The vote begins. Point 9.b was rejected by 40 votes to 51, with 36 abstentions. We're voting 9th now. The vote begins. Point 9.c was approved by 123 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And, finally, we vote for the point that we want and go beyond this point. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 8 votes in favour, 117 against and 2 abstentions. There are no more points of the order of the day this morning. We suspend the session until three-quarters of four of the late– three-quarters of four. Thank you. [[Question to the Government on the political situation after the elections of 10 November 2019 (withdrawn)]] [[300-00197/12]] Let me guess, too, please, before I leave, that an inquiry has been withdrawn, corresponding to item 13 of the order of the day. Therefore, there will be fewer inquiries this late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.239.0	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session. Before following the order of the day, let me inform you that the question corresponding to item 19 of the order of the day, which was the question to the Government on the situation of blockade in Catalonia and Spain, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode, which has postponed for a subsequent ple. So we'll have to get her out of the order of the day. [[Question to the Government on the subsidies of the Department of the Presidency and the tax benefits to entities of dubious social utility]] [[300-00188/12]] Let us now turn to paragraph seven, which is the first question: an inquiry to the Government on the subsidies of the Department of the Presidency and the tax benefits to entities of dubious social utility, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.240.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Consellera, one of the issues we are most concerned about in Citizens is the use of public money. And unfortunately we know that previous nationalist governments have embezzled money to devote it to the process. This is already proven. But there are others that are still pending resolution, such as the case of Cultural Action of the Valencia Country, which, thanks to the work of Citizens, is already being investigated by the prosecution. It is not for me to say whether there has been a crime or not; that will be decided by justice. And we will abide by what justice says, we will not go to burn containers, we will not go to cut roads or to cut train tracks, because, although you find it very exotic to comply with sentences and not to bind the very much, the truth is that it is first of all democracy. And I am here as a representative of the Catalans, and that is why it is my duty to ask you about the use of public money. Why do you have to use our money to pay off the mortgage of an entire building in the centre of Valencia? Because obviously they do not conform to a local, no, no; an entire building in the historic center. I imagine that I will go out with the Statue and with the Catalan defense, but the reality is that Article 12 of the Statue, which I suppose is to which it will be referred, does not say anything about paying mortgages to private entities of other autonomous communities. And I already tell you as a philosopher, I assure you that paying mortgages of buildings to private entities does not help, but in nothing, to any language. So, as I have already announced that these answers are not valid, I hope you will tell me something a little bit more credible. But no longer for me, but for the Catalans, because Catalans have the right to know what is done with their money. And above all, they have the right to have their money used properly and not to finance private entities from another autonomous community. And then we have the case of Platforma per la Llengua, which has starred in one of the most deplorable cases in Catalonia – and look what we have where to choose – as is the espionage of minors in the courtyards of schools. That para-government entity has entered schools with deception. And that of the deceptions is not my interpretation; it is that they explained it quietly in the press conference. They said that they had deceived the teachers and the management teams by explaining to them that they were going to do some activities in English when, in reality, the only thing they wanted was to take note of the language in which teachers and students speak at the time of the courtyard, and then to make public some conclusions, obviously, without any scientific rigor. Because, of course, one cannot speak of a sociolinguistic study as they intended, because... – if Mr Pujol allows me to continue to ask the lady counselor... –, as I said to them, it is obvious that one cannot speak of sociolinguistic study because no sociolinguistic or academic entity can endorse such an aberration, which skips all ethical and deontological codes. It is a matter of nationalist agitation alone and exclusively. And that espionage had as its sole objective to get out of the way some data to then promote a campaign that they already announced they were going to do this fall. What has happened with Platform per la Llengua is very serious, but it is even more serious than his Government, rather than going out to condemn it and say that responsibilities would be purified, he went out to say that it was not espionage, that it was incognito observation, as if that were really some kind of usual and acceptable methodology in academic research, which, of course, is not so, because, as I say, all ethical and deontological codes are skipped. Look, Platforma per la Llengua has no use for Catalans, and is carried every year 620,000_euros without public attendance. And, in fact, it is not only that it has no use for Catalans, it is that it is highly harmful, because this entity, far from protecting and promoting Catalan, the only thing it does is to do terrible damage to our language and also to the image of Catalonia, because the image..., well, the news of these spies inside the schools came out in all the national media leaving the image of the Catalan school on the ground. What are you going to do since the presidency, Mrs Budó? Are you going to take the subsidies away from him? Because you will agree with me that an entity that has said at a press conference that has deceived teachers and directors cannot receive a public_euro. And, look, this has been the most delectable action you've done, because it touches the most sacred we have, which are our children and education. But unfortunately it has not been the only one, because until the espionage was known to students and teachers, Platforma per la Llengua was already sadly known for giving up business for not labeling in Catalan or for not serving customers in that language. And in their accusatory and totalitarian pursuits they have unleashed genuine persecutions on social networks against workers who in many cases are also of immigrant origin. It is absolutely repulsive that the money of all Catalans is used to attack people who have their origins outside and who often work in a precarious situation. From here, we denounce with complete force those supremacist and classist attacks against the workers for the simple fact of using the majority language of Catalans, which is Spanish. And, of course, we call for the cessation of subsidizing an entity that is dedicated to attacking vulnerable people by putting their jobs at risk. We cannot accept that the classism and supremacy of nationalism is financed by our taxes. Nor can we forget that the members of the Socialist Party are also guilty of this situation, because they allowed the linguistic fines during the two tripartites. Doesn't it really embarrass you that this political persecution – which is a linguistic persecution, but of course it's political what's behind – goes against workers and against self - helpers? And, look, most of the cases go unnoticed and only jump the alarms when some case becomes media, which is what happened in the case of a doctor who, in a CAP Barcelona, a mother denounced that she had not wanted to attend to her daughter in Catalan. And quickly Platforma per la Llengua, which, of course, do nothing good, launched on Twitter a campaign against it, and this campaign ended up being a campaign of harassment and destruction against a health professional that culminated when the well-known agitator Santiago Espot showed up at the CAP with other radicals to make a splash and demand that they fire the doctor. And, among other barbarities he said, and I quote literally: "Here come doctors in the spirit of the colonizer to despise us, not only this doctor, but many others. Even in this country where you can't even die in Catalan. The Catalans are very generous: "Let them speak in Spanish. " Let's see if we're generous. But don't let them humiliate us in our house, like that doctor humiliated her mother. We won't tolerate it anymore. Mrs. Budó, make sure if you are in line with Santiago Espot that he believes that speaking in Spanish is a humiliation and you believe that greeting in Spanish in the city hall is segregating. And it is also in tune with the president of the Generalitat, who believes that it is not normal to speak Spanish in Catalonia, although it is the majority mother tongue of Catalans, or with the two cultural advisors who signed the manifesto Koiné, against Spanish in Catalonia. Do you really not realize that these entities, far from helping the Catalan, do what they do is harm both the Catalan and the image of Catalonia? Don't you realize the damage you're doing? Stop financing those entities that are dedicated to attacking and putting one language against the other, stop creating problems. And more examples. Cultural Ómnium, that of cultural has only the name. Its president is incarcerated by sedition, and a few days ago, while Catalonia was paralyzed by the flames and violence of radical separatism – the one you don't see, who doesn't see any kind of incident –, he hailed the masses from prison saying: "We're doing it again; we've stopped the country. It is clear that an association that venerates a seditious president, who, far from regretting, is repeatedly called upon to insurrection, cannot camp freely through our schools to indoctrinate students in their hatred of Spain and in their campaign against the rule of law. Therefore, from Citizens we obviously claim that you have to remove the status of cultural entity. By the way, we have asked how many schools are attached to Ómnium to your Government and with its usual opacity have denied us that data. And if they hide this information from us, it's because they know perfectly well that what they're doing with our schools is perverse. In these days that Barcelona and other cities have been destroyed, many people point out the youth of these attackers, who in many cases have not left adolescence yet. And it's no wonder that this is so, because they are young people who have lived only from their childhood process, hatred of Spain and questioning and insulting our rule of law. That hatred, which is freely encamped in our cities these days, is the fruit of their nationalistic indoctrination. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] It's the fruit of the tree that Jordi Pujol planted and that you water every day...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.241.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.242.0	...with their grants. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.243.0	To answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.244.0	Thank you, President. The honourable Member – late afternoon, Members and Members – will be asked about the Subsidies of the Department of the Presidency and tax benefits to entities of dubious social utility. In fact, the truth is that if you have to come here to the Faristol to answer this question following the literal thread of your question not trigaria not a minute to answer it, because the Department of the Presidency of the Generality of Catalonia does not give any subsidy or tax benefits to any entity of dubious social utility. And since I can't answer what we're not doing from our department, I'm sorry that you've been repeatedly asked to say yes, I will, therefore, take advantage of my inquiry to explain what is the subsidy activity of the Presidency Department, once more, to see if you understand it, huh? And what public utility do they have these subsidies that we do. And I will do so, if I may, by taking a rest from the different units of my department, because I assure you that it is always an opportunity to be able to talk about the different public policies that you are a fan of, that we are of the Government of Catalonia. That said, the subsidy activity of the Presidency Department is king, as it cannot otherwise be, for the General Law of Subsidies and the rest of the applicable legislation. The Government of the Generality promotes a model of public administration that is based on transparency, good governance, efficiency and accountability. Based on these principles, the Department of the Presidency's grant activity is collected in the department's website's transparency section, which you can consult whenever you want, where you will find all the information about the aid and grants held in the past few years by the different units of the Department of the Presidency, as well as the annual forecast of all the calls that will take place. In fact, I'm entering what it's... degracing this type of subsidy, allowing me to start with the subsidies to the communication media. Subsidies which have clear and well-defined criteria and which are useful, as they cannot otherwise be, in the promotion of Catalan language and in the company's own activity. They are helpers who are right to be in the protection and promotion of Catalan and Occitan languages in the field of communication, an area where, as you know – because even though they do not want to admit it, you know perfectly well – the catalá plays in inferiority of conditions, especially in the private sector. And that is why these grants seek to strengthen the communication companies that use Catalan and Occitan language in their journalistic content. In concrete terms, in the field of communication we can find five lines of help to communication media in catalá; four that we call structural and a line for projects. Therefore, from this government, I repeat, we have a firm commitment to the promotion of catalá in the media, a commitment that responds to the clear social utility of these policies, a utility that translates into linguistic consequences, but also civic, cultural and economic that make our country a cohesive territory. We can also talk about the subsidies that come from the General Secretariat of the Sport and that can go to the Catalan sports federations, sports unions and clubs and associations and to the sports councils, and that they have as their main objectives, and are also regulated by the Law of Transparency: to protect and regulate sport association; to promote and plan the sport of competition and of high level; to promote the sport of landing, reading, salvation; to give to the sportsmen with disabilities, and also to order and disseminate the knowledge and teaching of the sport, especially for sports practice in the school age. We also have, for another band, all the subsidies that are given by the Presidency, such as calls for the Catalan Institute of Women and that give grants to entities for the realization of projects of public use or social interest to promote the effective equality between women and men, such as projects that promote, plan or carry out labour insertion actions for women or projects that have as their object the eradication of male violence. Next I explain all the subventions of the Department of the Presidency. And I'm also doing it with the help that's related to the Secretary of Local Administration and Relations with the Aran. I must remind you: a new call after more than eight years of the Plac único de trabres y servici de Catalunya, with the aim of stimulating actions that favor the generation of opportunities and territorial development with two lines of subsidy, one of 160_million euros earmarked for the general investment programme, and some 90_million euros destined to finance projects for those population clusters smaller than five thousand inhabitants and that therefore require a reversal by the Generality to ensure the territorial balance of our country. We're still resting on the grants and I'm already getting there where you were going, Mrs. Sierra, and although you don't like it, you're letting me remind you of that again from the State, which you said: "I don't want you to tell me, look, but it's the State telling you, and as the State is an organic law, let me remind you in what way, through the Presidency grants we donate – give – compliment to the mandate of the Autonomous State in support of different initials that eventually lead to other territories in order to promote the Catalan language in other territories, outside Catalonia. And concretely, as stated in Article 50.3 of the Statute, which provides that catalan foment policies must be extended to the conjunct of the State, to the European Union and also to the rest of the world. You, as a philosopher, should know, the Catalan language is shared heritage with Andorra, with Aragó – the band of the Strip –, with Catalonia North, the Balearic Islands, the Valencian Country and the town of Alguer in Sardenya. And all policy of protection or normalization must take into account the conjunction of the linguistic domain, since the situation of the language in one of the territories affects the general situation of the idiom. The current government continues to do what has been happening for fifteen years, with diverse governments and all colors, which is the defense and promotion of catalá in Catalonia, Valencia and the world. And based on this is that the Government of Catalonia grants these grants to Cultural Action of the Valencian Country, but also to Bressola, to Catalonia North – to give an example – or to the Fundació Escola Valenciana, to the Fundació Sambori or to the Balear Cultural Work. And in relation to the grants you asked about Cultural Action of the Valencia Country, the reminder that it facilitated all the information you have asked about these grants to these entities, until there was a chance to come and consult all the information and all the invoices issued and paid from the Catalonian Government since 2003. It also talks about the building of El Siglo, a building that was acquired for the entities Cultural Action of the Valencia Country and the Civic Institution and of Thinking Joan Fuster, with the intention of having a building that can be at the same time social and a space to organize and present various activities that give visibility to the project of promoting relations between the Catalan speaking territories in the social field, in the cultural, academic and for the realization of different activities in these areas. Miri, I will not enter your game of disqualifications, falsehoods or language barroer – I will not enter it –, I could do it, but I will not do it. From the government I'll tell him that we defend and defend the promotion and diffusion of català rau, with these and with other actions. This is our obligation, this is our commitment and, moreover, we have convinced ourselves of its social utility. And yet, by active and passive, we've already explained it, and I've explained it to them myself some other time since this show, but we'll do it again, as many times as anyone else: we'll do it again. And we'll go back to doing the times you need, because we do it from the conviction of our government action. As you can see – and you know – the Government of Catalonia's policy of subsidies and tax benefits is totally transparent and subject to the retention of accounts in compliment of the Law of Transparency and Good Governance, and supporting the initiatives and projects that vagrant for the benefit of all Catalans and Catalans in the Catalan speaking territories. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.245.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer is the deputy's turn. Again, when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.246.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Budo, I don't think you're very clear what an inquiry means, it means that I'm asking you a series of questions and you answer me. An inquiry is not to come here and read what his advisors have written to him. That I understand, I understand that you do this, because every time you speak without reading what you have written to you, you should tending topic and, of course, they should say to you, "Don't get out of a ratta of what we've written to you, I understand. But, of course, this is not an inquiry. [[applause]] Because if I'm talking about one thing and you're talking about another... Look, there's no article in the Statue that says you have to pay the mortgage of a building to a private entity, there's no such article in the Statue. And, look, I'm giving you the thanks for all this information they gave us about Cultural Action of the Valencian Country. Do you know where this information is right now? The D.A.'s investigating him. And you say, "We'll do it again; fantastically, we'll take it back to the prosecution. [[Greetings.]] Miri, it is obvious the cultural phonationalism of your Government, and you, with the excuse of language and making an absolutely skewed interpretation of Article 12 of the Statute, give grants and tax benefits to entities that are dedicated to promoting nationalism and pan-Catalanism; here, to the Valencian Community, to the Balearic Islands and even to the Alguer. And the obvious proof that you don't care about language is the poor conditions that Consorci's language normalization workers have here in Catalonia, and it's the lack of assumptions for the Consorci's language normalization, while our money is spent on entities deprived of different autonomous communities and even different countries. And the obvious proof that the only object they have is to reward associations like this is that one of the lucky ones, Association for the Safeguard of the Historical Cultural Heritage of Alguer, so as not to have, does not even have so many web pages. What's the use of this association? Because we have been able to find out about his activities, or earlier than his non-activities, for the Ramon Muntaner Institute website. And what we know about this association – which you consider to be very useful, because it says that they don't give money or tax benefits to an entity that isn't useful – turns out that until 2008 they donated off-school classes in catalá, but they don't give them anymore. And it turns out that until 2012 they had a color that sang at mass in some places, but that's not what they do either. Is it really public use that Catalan money goes to finance the masses they do to Alguer? This – Mrs. Budo, I'm talking to you – do you think this is useful? I hope you'll answer for it. To see that they have no intention of having any use for these entities... it's that they're absolutely indifferent to what they're doing. And why do I say they're absolutely indifferent? Why did I ask the Department of Culture for the memory of activities from the past two years of this entity and know what the Department of Culture told me? That they don't have these memories or have ever had them. That's to say... they're giving tax benefits to an entity in the Alguer that they don't know what they're doing, basically because they don't do anything, and there goes the money from all Catalans. Now say again that they don't give money to any entity that isn't very useful. Why do Catalans have to finance entities that go against Spanish and that also harm Catalan, such as Platforma per la Llengua? Why do Catalans have to finance private entities outside Catalonia, which, moreover, as I have just explained, do absolutely nothing? Why do they have to have tax benefits and can they freely enter the schools progolpist entities, such as Ómnium? Why it should be remembered that this month of July Ómnium taught civil disobedience courses. And these days we've seen how they used these civil disobedience courses to destroy our cities, starting with Barcelona. Look, you're used to..., and the truth is that you've only told me 'barroera, but, otherwise, they haven't attacked us much, weird thing. Do you know why Citizens were born? Citizens were born to defend the freedom to use the language that everyone wants and that does not attack workers of other origins [[applause]] , speak the language you speak. Citizens were born so that students could study in their mother tongue, as UNESCO says and Citizens were born to face the nationalism that you and your party represent. And all the associations that have their fiscal privileges and subsidies do not have in common the defense of Catalan, they have in common the defense of Catalan nationalism, which is what has been doing for forty years, financing Catalan nationalism, you, Convergence and Republican Left. But nationalism always, always...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.247.0	Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.248.0	...it always ends badly. And now that we see how they tear down our streets, how they burn containers, how they cut down roads, and how they cut down roads, we see the need for it to be born...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.249.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.250.0	...live and win in Catalonia Citizens. It was imperative. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.251.0	To make the reply you have the word the counselor again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.252.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, stuff again. Respite in your interventions. We're on marmot day. Their aim, as always, is to focus on some statements that, even more so than repeating them, will certainly not make them. In fact, people already know them, and proof of that are the consequences that they suffered at the polls this past day of November 10th. [[Greetings.]] But, look, the saddest of all folds – the saddest of all folds – is that you are very interested in the explanations that we can get you from the government, not to mention not interested in people. In fact, you just want to have a few minutes to do a little more of your number, to do your permanent campaign intervention in which you are installed, to see if you have a little more luck, and if you can get a kind of view that you serve them to give them presence to communication media or social media. That's his only interest. This is why you want, Mrs Sierra, to question them. And, in fact, in each session and in each question, in each question, the same: to cross the hemicicle to get through the communication; all for a few seconds of screen. It is a pity that you do not come to the Parliament of Catalonia to audit the Government, nor much less to make a constructive contribution, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You just come to generate chrism, you come to sell conflict, and you know perfectly well that it will never be news for your non-existent proposals. They're just news of their constant and continuous outflows. And so they go. And the saddest thing is that she doesn't care about anything I told her. Neither the subsidies that facilitate the practice of sport, nor the subsidies for the promotion and protection of women, nor the subsidies of the communication area, nor those of the local world, nor all that fosters the use of Catalan culture and català. Well, in this last case they do have to say, because they show a lot of interest in this case, but they only show an interest: interest to destroy. An evil interest that has become an authentic obsession, Mrs. Sierra, has become an authentic obsession: you are keen to fight Catalonia and the linguistic model of Catalonia. He was talking to us about if we knew why his party was born? So much so that we know why your party was born! His party was born only for the confrontation, to go against the català, to go against the school, of the linguistic immersion, which was a success in Catalonia, against the media of public communication in català, for all that sounds and represents Catalan language and Catalan feeling and culture. And through your questions, through your inquiries, motions for resolutions or motions, you, with your obsessions, are only looking for an objective: the constant and continuous chasm of this Parliament. And that's not political, Mrs. Sierra. This lengthens the citizenry of politics, increases the contempt of politics, and the proof is how Ciutadans stretches from politics. I repeat, this diminution is a clear example. And as I don't want to get into your game, I'll finally make you an affirmation: the grant activity [[Funnel veils]] Department of the Presidency – if in laughter accounts you listen to me, eh? ... –, therefore... Mrs. Sierra, if in laughter accounts listened, you would hear the answers I am giving you, okay? Well, in any case, I repeat, the subsidy activity of the Presidency Department is governed by the General Subsidy Law and by the rest of the applicable legislation, you like it or you don't like it. And they'll find... and always from the government they'll have all the information they need in the department's department of transparency and website. And let me tell you: every time this Department of the Presidency is required for information, as it cannot otherwise be, and by compromise of transparency, it will be donated. And, therefore, everything that they want will be donated, as they have so far donated all the information they have requested. So, enough of falsehoods, enough of lies, because, more than repeating a lie, it doesn't turn into truth. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.253.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Interview with the Government on the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation]] [[300-00190/12]] The next question to the Government is about the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, Mr David Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.254.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Counselor, good afternoon. We'll talk about TV3 and talk about four main themes: first place, finance; second place, transparency; third place, plurality, and fourth, what we want to do with TV3. Look, Catalonian television is one of the most beloved in the State, the longest, the most beloved in the State. But it's that, besides, there's been a very clear drop in advertising admissions, and it's more like a non-fons-a non-fons-a non-fons-a non-fons. Madam advise, the legal change in the treatment of VAT is known to us since the year 2015, and, every year, the direction of the corporation asks the government for money to deal with this payment of VAT. Since 2015 we know that we have to pay this VAT. But it is that, in addition, 2017 we had to make an extraordinary contribution of almost 40_million euros; July 2018, around 22.6_million euros more, added to the corporate assumptions; this same year, advertising tickets fell around 2_million euros; the generation of 2019, I insist, we tank these advertising tickets in 2,4_million euros less, and this same year, February 2019, we again ask the government for an extraordinary contribution of 23_million euros. It's a dead end, it's unsustainable, and the current direction of the Catalan corporation can't go on this way. Why? Because the continuity of the same public radio and television and the continuity of the sector are at risk. And I think you need to give them a touch of attention, to the current Catalan corporate direction, because that can't go on like this. We would also like to know when they are planning to launch the programme contract. Transparency. Mrs Llorach has brought the guarantee body of this Parliament of the right of access to public information and has brought the Bureau of Parliament before the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, because she is refusing to give an information that has been requested by a Member of this Parliament. And, as I do not want to donate it, it brings us to the Bureau and the guarantee body to the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. What do you think? Does it seem normal for the Bureau of Parliament to tell the president of the ‘body that must give information, that it is a convenience, a deal of the Catalan corporation with Damm and Airbnb, that we want copy of this convenience and not the gift and that it takes us to the courts throughout the Bureau and to the guarantee body that this Parliament has? Does that sound good to you? Because, of course, parliamentary work remains on the ground. At the later Bureau of Parliament, another Member, in this case of Ciutadans, asked how much it cost, the cost to TV3 of the transfer to cover the Brussels demonstration, and there is no way to be told. And once again the Bureau of Parliament has again urged the Government that, please, we give this information, that we have a right to know. Counselor, there is a hole in the finances, but there is also a closed and obscure box, which no one can access, radio and public television. It's not the best example, it's not the best guarantee of how things are to be done. We also have a very hard-to-believable problem. You know perfectly well that the latest data from the CEO tells us that public television at this time, practically, only people who feel clean to independence see it and those who do not feel clean to independence have already stopped watching TV3. I'm not saying it, the CEO said it – the CEO, huh? Almost 70_percent of people who see TV3 exclusively feel like they're functionally independent. Why? So why is there a public radio and television programming that greatly annoys the rest of the people of Catalonia. I insist: and I'm not just saying it, the CEO says it, and I'm also saying the new CCMA Professional Program Council, which understands that there are criticisms about TV3 bias and thinks that there is often enough confusion between opinion and information in many of the programs that are given to TV3 and that this means that surely many of the people watching TV3 have stopped watching TV3 at this time, for all these issues. TV3_has to make an effort for this lack of clear definition between what is information and what is opinion. I'm not saying either: I'm saying the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation's own style book. A clear difference must be made between information and opinion. It's not normal for computer software drivers to do this, let's just say, page to the beginning about their opinion about the news they're giving themselves, because this way there are a lot of people disconnecting from the radio and public television. And it must be made, above all, a permanent effort for this perception of the independence of public media and its prestige before society as a whole. I insist: I don't say it, the new CCMA Professional Program Council says it. It's unquestionable, Counselor: TV3 has stopped seeing him as a good part of the people of Catalonia. You're unquestionable. There's no excuse, there's no excuse. I can't, you, put the excuse of the idiom, it's not true. I can't make the excuse that we're at a special time right now, and so there are a lot of people who have stopped seeing... it's not true. Why, for what reason? Because you have an obligation to make sure this doesn't happen again. Look, we personally have also made the effort to..., some of the insults that have been made by some of the collaborators of certain programs of public broadcasting, insults directed to the Mrs. Arrimadas, Mr. Iceta, Mr. Cañas, Mr. Rabell and more members of Parliament, we have made the effort or made the exercise of doing this insult by changing the name and putting some of the people who are here at this time, you yourself, I myself... I do not dream of doing it, I do not dream of doing it. You're a barroer. It's disgusting. Counselor, no thanks. Is that thanks to you, the insults of certain collaborators? No thanks. And do you know what's going on? So very simple: that the CCMA parliamentary committee, chaired by Mr David Mejía, has been told, "Well, all this is done in a mood, and it can be done, because, as it is done in a mood, it can be done. And that's not thanks, Counselor. We are already losing the constant effort and insistence that we have made on Mrs Llorach and the directors to address these issues from the radio and public television. There's no way – there's no way. It seems, sometimes it seems, Madam Counselor, that, as we complain more, more insults come from these collaborators. Nor does it serve the excuse that, "well, as external collaborators of TV3, so you can say. That's not true, that's not true. Because you have the obligation to preserve what would be the compliment of the style book. And I will finish this first part of the intervention by commenting on a case that I have already commented on to the same control committee, the case of the BBC presenters, who made an acquittal, an acquittal of displeasure, about a person who was not in Parliament... Did you know what the BBC did? Logically, he suspended them, counselled, and suspended the program – he suspended the program – because the BBC said that with the second thing that is not played. There have been collaborators of certain TV3 programs who have severely insulted people in this Parliament. And we can't say it's done in a mood, we can't say it's done because it's a collaborator and escapes from the book of style, we can't say that. I expect an answer on the part of the advisor who is blunt, that this does not fit with the book of style and that we have created a corporation not to insult, not to degrade, not to always stay with those who are not independent and who seem to say everything, but to go in the direction of competition, to create a climate in Catalonia in which it is possible to see a public television that can be from everyone– from everyone– and that everyone can feel like, not just those who feel on the rope, not just those who feel independent. Mrs. Counselor, how do you think you will improve the economic situation of the corporation? – how do you think you will restore the economic situation of the corporation? When do you think you're going to complete the book before all these attacks that have taken place on this one? How do you plan to remove this label from TV3 that it's an independent television? Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.255.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.256.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... Miri, focusing on the reflections that you have on the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation and how we have had the opportunity to say other times here in Parliament, I want to make very clear our position as the government of Catalonia to defend public communication media such as the key piece to set up a communication space; media that are, we understand, a space of professionalism, rigour, guarantee of accurate, plural, true information, as they show different studies on plurality. Let me say that I do not accept expressions such as 'no-fons'. To remember that from the year 2010 or 2011 until the year 2018 the contribution in euros by the Government to the Catalan corporation of the communication means has been of 450 and escaig million euros to 320 and escaig that they are giving in the current. And, therefore, it is not certain that it is a point without funds as you were mentioned. Some communication media that we also understand to represent the pluralism that some public media must have, because fortunately in Catalonia we have guarantees and comprehensive controls over the communication media, similar controls here, of the Parliament of Catalonia, which offer us objective and comparable parameters and indicators. The pluralism of our public communication media, we have to say it and we have to repeat it, is guaranteed with the current model, and its results thus show us. You were talking about data, audience data, follow-up, all the data you make reference to the daily hearings, the CEO's inquiries, the CIS and the quality reports from external analysis. So I want to highlight the importance of compliment reports from public service and pluralism observation missions because it helps us to value the work of public media at the time of evaluating programming and information. And it is in this sense that the Audiovisual Council has issued different specific reports of pluralism to television and radio gathering information, for example, from electoral campaigns in Congress and the Senate, for municipal and European elections, right? We consider these reports to be especially valuable because they incorporate not only Catalan media but also the main media in Catalonia; we are talking about TV3, Catalunya Radio, Spanish Television, Tele 5, d'Antena 3, of the Sixth, RAC1, etc., right? And so, the CAC study, also, on the campaign of general elections that will last until the end of April 28 of this year 2019, that tells us that TV3 and Catalunya Radio were the media that more equalized the time of news about the electoral campaign of candidates with parliamentary representation. But I continue with more data, which I think are important and uplifting: the 2019 second issue of the CEO's public opinion barometer, last July, where this study shows that TV3 is the preferred channel for informing, and it remains in the first place, multiplying by four the result of the second communication medium. Thus, almost half of the polls follow the information on television via TV3 and Channel 3/24, and, in the area of radio, more than a quarter do it through Catalonia Radio and Catalonia Information. More than this CEO barometer. The 48,1_percent of the respondents follow the information to television via TV3 and 3/24, and, in concrete terms, 44 and mig per cent do so via TV3, which is kept at the front of the classification, much away from the second of the list, which is Antena 3, with an 11_per_cent. For those who do 3/24, a 3.7_per_cent of the polls sort this channel to find out. And 26_percent of the polls trien Catalunya Radio and Catalunya Information to listen to the information spaces on the radio; a 24_percent follows Catalunya Radio, which is the second ranked broadcaster. You've been telling me that TV3 is losing all the time... or often reminding us of the loss of viewers. So I'll tell you that the data from the middays of the last four years of the CEO's barometer tells us that TV3_was the first election to inform on the part of the citizens of this country, and, concretely, a 44,2_per_cent, always in the first place. But we can move from the CEO's data to the CIS data, which also talks about who the TV3 audience is. And it turns out, according to your pre-electoral macrobarometer data, people suspected of being an ally of Catalonia, these CIS data tell us that 47.2_per_cent has chosen TV3 to have political and electoral information. The string encapsulates the racquing to Catalonia at a great distance from the second option, which is The Sixth, sorted for 15,8_per_cent, and the third, TVE, for a 12,1_per_cent. But more than plurals we also need to remember – which is important – that corporate media are the most controlled and audited media. In fact, TV3 and Catalunya Radio are audited by the CAC by mediating the compliment control report of the specific missions of the public service of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, which is carried out annually and through the reports of observation of the pluralism of the Catalan Audiovisual Council that analyze the themes that are dealt with in the information and the presence of the different political actors, more than the time of sentence and the proportion for each of them that is carried out every four months. Therefore, the control of the contents, which remain adequate to the regulations, does not realize the government, it realizes the Council of the Audiovisual. And it is with these reports, that they are public and that they are at the forefront of everyone, that it is evident that TV3 and Catalonia Radio are the most plural media, that they offer a greater plurality and diversity of vision of the whole political arc in all their information, and that they are, in a wide range, hearing leaders in Catalonia. You were talking about insults and contingencies. I repeat, you know very well, the control is done through the Corporate Control Commission also of this Parliament – and this control is the fan of you, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament of Catalonia – the media directors and the same president are appearing in office so as to ask for all the explanations to be asked. And obviously also through the Board of Directors of Contingents and Programming of the Corporation and the Professional Boards of TV3 and Catalunya Radio. Remember, for what you said, you're afraid of hearing. Hearings, also a very important data: to take into account that TV3 is making the audience records of the last thirty years, the best audience since 2006_has been that of this past October. Therefore, in this sense, therefore, we are completely calm and satisfied with our public communication media. In fact, it turns out that TV3 is an audience leader and the media of the Catalan corporation are a reference of the citizenry and are a reference to inform on the part of citizens and citizens. You spoke, you also spoke of the program contract, and here too let me go in, because I think it's important. In fact, it is urgent to resume work to approve a new program contract. At these times the Parliament is about to approve the March mandate, not expected to be able to negotiate this programme contract. The mandate set by the Parliament is due, and without this expected step, it cannot fit in or negotiate the mandate set by the future programme contract. You said that the March mandate was in force, but Article 30 of Law 22/2005, of the audiovisual communication of Catalonia, says that the Parliament has to approve every six years a new March mandate. But what happens if this term is over and a new one is not approved? So the rota mandate can be extended to the hope that Parliament will approve a new one within a maximum of two years. And we're here, right now we're here. Now it's been a year since the extension's over. Therefore, it is the job of this Parliament to approve a new mandate. And it's urgent to approve it. And it's urgent because we need what you say, this program contract, to precisely set up corporate finance. The program contract is absolutely necessary to give peace of mind to the management of the corporation and to ensure the public contribution for its financing in a context each time changing. And it is especially so to give response to current needs, which is moving between the evolution of the advertising market – you have also made reference – with the consequent capture of inputs, technological innovations and formatting us or the need to boost production. To talk about financing means to approve the mandate mark in this Parliament, let's remember, but a more concrete fact, if the flight, is that the contribution for this 2019 by the Generality, today, has been 231_million euros. I finished this first intervention, and I want to finish as I started: making it clear that the television and the public radio in Catalonia are information, service, quality, plurality, as the different reports and barometers of what I have done are at the length of my exhibition; some media that, I repeat, are an area of professionalism, rigour, assurance of accurate information, plurality and truth and a model of success in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.257.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next is the return of Deputy David Pérez to make the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.258.0	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Counselor, when I say that it is a pointless thing, it is true that it has a presupposition, but it is that every two for three there are extraordinary contributions, that they must come out of the presupposition of the Generality in order to go, to say it in some way, to exhaust the deficit that it has, because they have not adjusted to the presupposition. "Well, it's VAT, it's staff, it's programming, it's, they said to me, "I want to compete in high definition with other channels..., and that represents punctual contributions about 30_million a year. That's why I'm saying it's a dead end. He said: "No, we adjust to the presupposition. No, don't adjust to the presupposition. The ACC says: "We are..., with the quality vote of the president of the ACC has approved a multitude of reports. But I insist, huh? , with the quality vote of the president of the ACC, with many representatives of the Audiovisual Council who say they disagree. They say: "No, there is a lot of pluralism on radio and on public television. I'm just setting an example. The ACC report to which you refer says: « Entities linked to political debate; presence at public radio: a 95_per_cent, entities linked to independence, and a 5_per_cent, entities not linked to independence. Is this plurality? Is that true? He said: "No, man, yes, they have all spoken. Home, yes, but proportionally not. Plurality is very good, but proportionality is also good. Does it seem normal to you that 95_per_cent– of entities linked to the political debate– have spoken to the radio and only 5_per_cent of those who are not? No, no, You can't assume that. You said, "No, it's the ACC that tells us that we're doing very well. But if you say that, the ACC, say that: 95 to 5. « TV3 is the first channel, to be informed. Actually, in the time of the tripartite 57_per_cent of the population was informed via TV3; now we are in 47_per_cent. Look, there's..., of the people who normally see Catalonia TV a 14_per_cent watch TV3, you're right. And that's a leading xifra. Most of them are independent. I'm not saying, I'm saying the reports you mentioned. Most of them are independent. And these independents are asked: « – How do you see the information that TV3 gives? "Ah, very good, very good, yes, perfect. - And how do you see plurality? – Ah, yes, very, very plurality, very good. The 14_percent of the people you see TV3, I insist, of which a 70_per_cent is independent. Are these data supposed to be, Counselor? I don't think so, do I? I don't think so. He hasn't answered absolutely the questions I've asked him about the insults he's making to public radio and television. The rota mandate is valid in this Parliament, for a reason – for a reason, he will advise – because in the current rota mandate there has been no program contract – there has been no program contract. We can't wait any longer for you to do the program contract. Do it at once. And the rota mandate is in effect until another one is made. I insist, Madam Counselor, that we cannot accept what you are saying, of a public radio and television that incompletes clearly the book of style by treating the public functions in the way that it treats them: illiterate, rabid and aggressive. "They are very aggressive, even angry, and most illiterate, in a public television program. They refer to the Mossos: "These bad guys who think they're going to protect you, but suddenly they turn around and border, and move, still worse, and shoot pilots with hunger. And that's where the eye comes back? And all this... it's not their fault, it's their fault, it's their fault. And there's a picture of a company of his, the inside counselor. Can you say this can't go out on public radio and television? [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And I don't say anything to him– I don't say anything to him– about the apology the program driver made, huh? , who said: "Well...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.259.0	You're out of here, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.260.0	... what they should do is apologize to them, because, of course, there are people who are hospitalized, detained or injured.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.261.0	Ahabi, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.262.0	Madam Counselor, you have the opportunity – I finish, Mr President – to depart from these words at a time. And I pressed – I pressed – as the BBC did at the very least. [[Don't worry, I'll give you some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.263.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the final reply the word "conseller" has the word "conseller".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.264.0	Thank you, Vice President. MPs, MPs..., look, I'll start at the end: obviously I don't like insults; insults, no one..., I think this country and our communication media should not be characterized, obviously, therefore, by these insults, and therefore, as it cannot be in any other way, condemn insults to public workers and workers and to any person who has been insulted by communication media. But, despite the fact that I do not like insults, I do not share with myself, as the President's adviser, to evaluate the contents of the public media, because, as the government, we cannot value the contents, the programs, and the professionals of our media. This isn't our competition, and you know it perfectly. And you know perfectly well why you can talk about it, you can ask for all kinds of explanations of the contents, of the professionals and of the programs, precisely, to the Catalan Corporation Control Commission of the Audiovisual Mitjans of this Parliament, to which they come to answer their questions, to those of all the deputies, the director of TV3, of Catalonia Radio and the president of the corporation. And, so, it's on the mark of this corporate control committee where all the deputies and all the deputies can do this job, huh? , and ask for the corresponding explanations and the corresponding responsibilities to the fact that you were denouncing. Therefore, let me say that, although my opinion, as it cannot be otherwise, is that I do not like or understand, therefore, that anyone should be insulted..., really, it is not for the Government to do these exercises which have these powers in the Parliament of Catalonia. Look, I, in my first intervention, Mr. Member, have given him many data; in fact, I have given him data that I think are objective, given that – allow'ml'expression – they are coughs to show us the reality of the Catalan Corporation of the communication mediums. Professionality, plurality and truthfulness are characteristics that identify our communication means. And I will also give you data from another survey, entitled "Consummation and perceptions of the audiovisual media in Catalonia 2019, of the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinio, and which has been in charge for the same CAC: TV3 is the television channel preferred for viewers to inform themselves, to entertain themselves, and has increased the number of viewers in the last two years. And I want to especially highlight this study because it's true that when we talk about communication media we focus very much on information and maybe the entertainment area doesn't seem as studied, and, in change, this study, as I said, also affirms TV3's preference of viewers, also in the entertainment area. And, therefore, hand in hand, allow me to defend, therefore, non-sectarianism and, therefore, plurality, another time, of public communication media. And, in fact, I have to say that in this sense I was surprised and worried that, in last week's debate of the candidates for the five state parties, precisely Mr. Pedro Sánchez presented a measure with which he said that he intended to end TV3's sectarianism; specifically, he said to amend the General Audiovisual Law because the administrative councils of all the public media were still approved with the support of two thirds of the autonomous parliaments. I don't know if by ignorance or demagogue... because if it's by magic, look, it costs me a lot to accept that a force that is said to be left and that is said to be progressive can become as irresponsible as was the case with Mr. Pedro Sánchez. And, if it's about ignorance, worrying too. But if this is the case, I hope that from his party we have already been able to speak to Mr. Pedro Sánchez and have explained to him exactly what... we can explain, that it is the approval now, a few days ago, of the reform of the law of the corporation, that it was unanimously adopted by this Parliament and that it contemplates the measurement of the two-thirds. And, besides, I hope you have explained that TV3 already teas, since 2012: a government council chosen by Parliament, mostly qualified by more than two-thirds. Now it's an obligation, and I think it's positive, but the current board already has a majority of that. We talk about plurality, we talk about controls and audiences, we talk about audiences, we talk about preference among spectators, we talk about increasing the number of spectators. In short, and despite the fact that everything is always better and that this is why we are, to help improve, our public media are a model of success and they are a model that we must preserve and, as I said, improve by taking us back...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.265.0	You're out of your mind, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.266.0	...as are consumer and digital communication spaces. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.267.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[David Pérez Ibáñez asks to speak.]] Tell me, Mr. Congressman, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.268.0	For a small contradiction, if I may, eh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.269.0	For contradictions, thirty-seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.270.0	Yeah. The counselor referred to a report explaining how well TV3 is doing. This report... the people who have analyzed each other, everyone, everyone doesn't reject TV3. The fact of not rejecting TV3 was the condition for being able to make the report. With these rules of the game, I also have some very nice data, ma'am. And, believe me, that would never make a president like Mr. Pedro Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.271.0	We then proceed to the 14th point of the order of the day. [[remorse of the voice]] – Silence... – which is the question to the Government about its support for the Assembly of Elected Carrecs of Catalonia, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. [[Question to the Government about its support for the Assembly of Elects of Catalonia]] [[300-00198/12]] To expose it has the word the deputy Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.272.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... I must admit that I already approach this question with scepticism, right? , why, after feeling the defense of the plurality of the public communication media of the Government of Catalonia, I already arrive with a lot of skepticism to pose this inquiry. But, well, we'll do exactly the same. Miri, I want to talk about four things that I want to locate geographically: Barcelona, Venice, Berlin and Cuba; four geographic places where there are four things that I think are important and worth talking about. Barcelona, 2018, concretely May 14, 2018, in this same Faristol, the president of the Generalitat, in the investiture debate, in the second investiture debate, made an affirmation..., in ugly many, eh? And since May 18th through November 19th, it's been a year and a year and we haven't given it much import and we're giving it to you now. He said many things, but among them he said, "There are three ways of republican political action, aren't there? The Council of the Republic, the Assembly of Elected Carrecs and the empowered, mobilized and involved citizenry constitute – well, an acronym of what the CDRs must be for the government, right? I understand that this must be it. So, the one who gave it to him, right? Under normal conditions, we would not give him much more importance than the anecdote, which is what I think we have given him during this year and year, to all this from the Assembly of Elects. What's going on is that... the opportunity of the inquiry is that it's been activated. The 30th of October has activated the Assembly of Elected Carrecs or this independentist lean of public salaries, because it is quite equivalent to all this, isn't it? And this is the opportunity of this inquiry. Clearly, and that's starting to worry us. The president said that at the investiture session and as well as the government program, and then this is materiality. And so, we understand that this mass, normal mass, we understand that it doesn't have to be, right? Because, for the president, this assembly has to be called upon to assume, he says, "a very important role, as now – he puts it at the same level – the Fake Government, named the "Council of the Republic" or who precisely called it "Citizenship, empowered, mobilized and involved in the process constitute, which are these commands that raise barricades and walls, to which I will also refer; I cannot stop doing so. And that's all on the sidelines of the legal order that regulates us and what we have democratically and jointly endowed ourselves with, isn't it? And this government, which is a government that presumes often – and today we've heard it many times, haven't we? – of the dialect, of the democrat, of the defender of the freedoms, with the fets remains the strength of everything that expresses. And it is important not only that the same President of the Generality and other members of the Government attend it, but also that the same President of this Parliament is doing it and that this Assembly is announced – "Assembly, "Go back, say as I say – as complement to the Government and Parliament; or, then, the Assembly of Elected Heads, complement to the Government and Parliament, with the absolutely complicit silence of all of you. And when I say all of you refer to the government, but obviously I also refer to the independenceist majority of the Bureau of Parliament, to which this appeal claims, in a way, to usurp functions. Do you know what that sounds like? Do you know what that sounds like? So I'm going to Venice, 2016: the opposition to the Chavism won a democratic election and is a majority in the Venice National Assembly. Immediate consequence: the dictator, Nicolás Maduro, cannot bear to have a legislative power that carries him the control and creates the Constituent National Assembly, which, very democratically, it is formed exclusively by Chavistas, and is an absolute counterpower to the National Assembly of Venezuela. And it is an assembly, this, recognized only and exclusively by great democracies – read'mla face d'ironia', by great world democracies, such as Bolivia, Cuba, Iran, Nicaragua, Russia and Syria. A magnificent exercise in democracy. A parallel assembly in which there is no opposition and those who manage can do what he likes, as he often gives me the impression that passes us in this Parliament. Is this the concept of democracy that this government has? I'm asking, Counselor. Is this the concept of democracy, really, that you have in this Parliament? If you have a bit of dignity and respect for the institutions of Catalonia, which are not just the independenceists, but they are all Catalans, not only have not been assisted, but you should not criticize the intention to usurp the authentic representativeness that the Government has and that has this very Parliament. But to you, we know, it bothers them to have opposition and many times it bothers them to feel it, to come here and feel that there is a part of Parliament that is a reflection of society. There's a part of Catalan society that doesn't share its partisan aims of raising walls. You don't like this. Yes, and I spoke of « raising walls: Berlin, 1989 ; fall of the wall and totalitarian communism in Europe. So here we have a government that congratulates and goes to raise us walls – yesterday itself, to the Jonquera. While Western democracies celebrate the fall of the wall, which symbolizes the freedom of millions of people, you raise walls – to Jonquera yesterday – or celebrate the mockery of democracy that meant the false referendum of November 2014. Yes, the commands act, and the government makes the organ, and the president, "press", "press". Clearly, it's the origin of the CDR. That they are the ones who are and have the origin where they have it: Cuba, 1960, just won the Castro revolution; it is created the committees of defense of the revolution in Cuba – oh chance, CDRs! – as well as political control and detachment groups to the Cuban barrel, to the dictatorship of the Communist Party. And you, who feed parapolitical bodies outside the legal order, like the Council of the Republic, of which you, feeling counsel, were part... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, you were part of it; you attended, as the Councillor..., you were a Councillor of the Presidency and you attended the meetings of this Council of the Republic, which did nothing other than pretend to usurp its functions, of the same Government of the Generality. Paradox quina! You participate in an organization or an entity, because you are an entity, that what you want is to usurp your own functions. And they use..., and from these bodies you take the actions of the commands, such as the gods, of the CDRs, and, in many cases, and we are looking badly at the last days, violent, of these groupings, right? And you come and repeat continuously that you are democrats and that you come to give classes of democracy. Look, the phone word for this inquiry... and I've already recognized it to the principle, surely naively, haven't I? But it's giving them the opportunity to break through these totalitarian tics, to untie themselves... Counselor, now you have the opportunity. You tell me: « I do not participate in the Council of the Republic. So disassociate 'not just you, disassociate the Government of the Council of the Republic, of the Assembly of Elects and of the Violence of the CDRs, because they are totally tics that you are demonstrating, and apostinate to respect the institutions of Catalonia, because, believe me, if you follow this path, those who do not end up paying the consequences..., may also be you, but in general those who pay the consequences we are the joint citizens of Catalonia, independentists or non-independentists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.273.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, for the reply, the speaker of the Presidency, Meritxell Budó, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.274.0	Thank you, Vice President. The honourable Member, this question is about the Assembly of Elects, but talking about this private entity and asking about the support of the Government for this association also means asking about the current political situation and very concretely about the reduction of individual and collective freedoms and fundamental rights especially in Catalonia, as also means asking about the intervention of the powers of the State over our institutions. To put it in a clear way: the secrecy on the part of the powers of the State of the popular will of the Catalan people expressed in the legislative capacity of our Parliament and in the executive capacity of our Government. But we're going for parts. The Assembly of Carrecs Electes of Catalonia is a platform driven by the Association of Municipalities for Independence and which was founded on October 26, 2016, and is formed by elected carrecs of our country. We are talking about mayors and mayors, directors, governors, deputies and deputies of the Parliament of Catalonia, deputies and deputies of the Congress, senators and MEPs. And actually, last October 30th held its constitution, because, as I said, it created 2016, but it had not been constituted until now the month of October. And yes, in this constitution of the Assembly of Elected Members, we will be attended by the President of the Generality, accompanied by the Government, as well as by the President and other members of this Parliament; an Assembly of Elected Members, which made a manifesto of rebuttal to the feeling that it violates civil and political rights; which calls for amnesty and calls for the release of political prisoners and political prisoners, for the return of exiles and for the purpose of repression; for the support of popular mobilization and defence of the sovereignty of Catalan institutions; for an Assembly to call upon the State, for the purpose of the resolution of a political debate, for the purpose of returning the conflict to politics; for the purpose of international mediation, for the purpose of achieving this objective; for the purpose of the resolution of a political assembly, for the purpose of the resolution of a political assembly, for the purpose of the resolution of the Assembly, for the purpose of the resolution of the Assembly, for the purpose of the resolution of the Assembly, for the purpose of the resolution of the Assembly, for the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the Assembly, for the resolution of the resolution of the Assembly, for the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the Assembly, for the resolution of the resolution of the Assembly, for the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the Assembly, for the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the resolution of the Assembly of the Assembly of the resolution of the resolution of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the resolution of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly Miri, one of the most remarkable sections of our country is organised civil society, the network of associations and foundations, which provide a guarantee for the cohesion of our country and one of the most powerful engines for its progress. Both the associations and the foundations in our home express a willingness to join efforts in a common or general cause of interest until today they are protagonists of activities with a great social impact and have a very high role to play on the side of the Administration at the time when we face the challenges our society faces. In fact, its appeal today means asking about the reduction of individual and collective freedoms and of the rights of the public, especially in Catalonia, and, therefore, around this common or general cause of interest, it is quite normal and says in favour of our society that associations, movements or platforms are articulated as the association of elected bodies. Because this is a fact and the facts cannot be denied. We could also talk about his biting law, we could talk about arbitrary arrests in the Spanish State, we could talk about abusive and unjust presumptive pressures as the same UN dictates, we could talk about attacks on freedom of expression already on a balcony or in the same parliament, we could talk about the digital repression that we have seen on the last few days at a time of decree, we could put up so many examples of this repression that involves a hard democratic setback... But I will not, I will also talk about data; I will talk about the data considered by the citizens of Catalonia about this reduction in freedoms and rights. And he says what he considers the city of Catalonia because, as you know, the studies show that it is not a matter of perception of only the independenceists; another thing, you, will be if you want to see or listen to data we have, but this is no longer my responsibility, it is yours. You're talking about Cuba and I don't know which countries; I'm talking about data from here. It turns out that, if we look at the data of the CEO's omnibus, both last year and this year, the results are very stable: 65_percent of the population believes that the freedoms and the fundamental rights of Catalonia have been reduced. But let's go a little bit into the detail of this, because, if we look at the people's response according to their identity position, which is considered only Spanish or is considered more Spanish than Catalan, a 35_per_cent agrees that we suffer a reduction in rights and freedoms. As you know and see, it's not just a question of Catalan independence; I think the 35_per_cent data is not a smaller one. And as it is not just a question of independence, I will also make a statement of the results classified according to the party that voted in the last elections to the Parliament of Catalonia. And, if we look among their voters, those of the People's Party, it turns out that up to 66,7_percent of their voters believe that their freedom and rights in Catalonia have been reduced. I repeat: 66,7_percent of its voters believe that freedom and rights in Catalonia have been reduced. In fact, this happens when the citizenry is clear. It is normal that this consideration is also passed on to its elects, because the political class cannot act out of the way to our citizens, and that is why the Assembly of Elected Carrecs. And so much so that it is not strange that today more than 85_percent of Catalan assemblies reject the Supreme Court's judgment, it is said, 814 of the 948 municipalities of Catalonia reject the Supreme's judgment; nor is it strange that our home is constituted, it is configured associations, assemblies, platforms or movements that fight for the defense of our rights and our freedoms. And I assure you that the Government of Catalonia's will is not to exercise inquisitory, but to the contrary: our will is to facilitate, accompany and recognize the task that the associations and foundations of our country are carrying out. Indeed, in this context, the Government of Catalonia is fighting and will fight for freedom, and recognizes and defends, as it cannot otherwise be, the right to association. Our institutions are compromised with the promotion of democracy, but at the moment I must also express my concern about our institutions, my concern about the lack of respect and recognition of our institutions; institutions that are patenting actions, persecution and repression that we remember in white and black but now we live them in color.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.275.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply has now the new word the deputy Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.276.0	Thank you, Counselor. Look, take advantage, to begin this second return, to express your agreement with the last expression that you have served: concern for the lack of respect for our institutions, absolute. Completely agree. But do you know who lacks respect for our institutions? You and your government. Yeah. You and your government. With a ho fan? Pushing this cliff to defend a private entity that usurps the functions of this Parliament. That is disrespecting the institutions of this country, that is disrespecting this Parliament, and that is what you have just done here today and now. I have already said, when I came out, that perhaps this inquiry was naive, because I intended to seek from you an act of reflection and rectification in relation to the support for what you yourself have named private entities. And are private entities the ones that have to save the institutions of Catalonia? You're wrong. They are you, the Government of the Government of Catalonia, the first to respect the institutions. And they're the first ones who don't. And the first, you. As a member of the Government of the Generality cannot participate in a parapolitical body such as the Council of the Republic. And you've been doing it. And his government is participating in an assembly organization in the Venetian style, such as the Assembly of Elects or the plethora of independents with public salaries and contributors of the exile of Puigdemont. Twelve euros to watch. We have to make the big box– we have to make the big box. And that's what you came to defend us here today. We've come to speak for the assembly. And he said to us: "Listen, the one that affects democracy, the one that is worrying, the one that... and has made us a relationship, that if the law bites, that if we arrest them, that if the attacks on freedom of expression, that if it digitally represses it. Do you know what they have in common all these facts that you report? That there are judicial powers that can arbitrate democracy and freedom from all these facts. From what you're doing at the Elects Assembly, there's nothing, because it's not democratic. And you're working on it. And that's the problem: you use it. An organism that has nothing to do with democracy, on the contrary. What they claim is to supplant democracy and the representativeness of what you so call defending: the will of the people of Catalonia. The will of the people of Catalonia is expressed here, and more so than here! And you can't participate in any other organization that you intend to supplant... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I know you don't have to shout, but when you talk down, you don't want to taste it, so I raise the veil. [[relays]] Well, let's see if this way, they get in better. [[Greetings.]] You're talking to me about the data from the CEO's inquiries. Look, I could also talk to him about the data on these questions. The one who happens to have the dignity not to do it. [[Rialles.]] Yes, I have the dignity not to. I did a survey at my house and I know the result. And I won't set it as an example. And you say to me, "It's just that the CEO said that two_of_every_three People's Party voters thought Catalonia would be vulnerable to rights and freedoms. Two of every three. No, no, Two of the three that the CEO found voting for the People's Party, because they only found three. So, they're, not two out of every three, no, two out of three. Matis is important – matis is important. And you praise us for the associated movement. Miri, I have to remind you... I don't know if you were there or weren't there or was following it or wasn't following it, but I have to remind you of the great meetings of infinity of associations that are meeting the Parliament of Catalonia in the Covenant for the Right to Decide. Yes, many entities, many associations. Some of them had to leave because, then, by court rulings, they could not assume the representativeness of the collection only in favour of a certain political option. So I'll just give him a sifra. Do you know what that cost him at the Catalan joint? EUR 62 million in grants to entities and organisations and associations participating in their Right to Decide Pact. Not so, counsel – not so. That's not democracy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.277.0	Thank you, Congressman. To make the reply, the counselor has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.278.0	Thank you, President. Miri, Mr. Deputy, the will of the people, do you know where he is, too? Prison and exile. [[Widow's remorse.]] Actually... [[Greetings.]] To prison and exile! And the first thing you should do is respect the election results, the results of the polls, huh? The European Union lawyer himself told you clearly and loudly, huh? The political and democratic rights of President Puigdemont, Vice-President Junqueras and Councillor Comín will be returned [[applause]] to become Euro MPs, because who gives them the Euro MP charge are the ballot boxes. And they're violating the political rights of President Puigdemont, Vice President Junqueras, and Councillor Comín, and more than two million voters who gave them the ballot box. But, look, let's go back to what this late question is. We come to talk about what concerns you so much, that the elect have decided to constitute themselves as an assembly. An assembly... that the first one to be made... [[Widow's remorse.]] Pardon me, the rights of the Catalan electorate to form an assembly. Because if we accept what is going on at home as normal, we are accepting what I said before: the democratic regression of the Spanish State. Miri, between Catalonia and Spain there is a political conflict that can be resolved from politics, not from repression. And, sadly – sadly – on the part of the Spanish State, before I recognize the political conflict and seek solutions, before my sister and speak – as I said in my intervention – before dialogue, what they are doing is sacrificing democracy. Because repression, regression in human, civic, political and social rights are not free, but they have a very high price, which is to carry democracy. You're carrying on democracy. Miri, the Kingdom of Spain only has to choose between two options: to be a state of law or to make an abuse of the State. And in spite of all the citizens, the independenceists and the non-independenceists, the Kingdom of Spain has so far chosen the second option: to abuse the State. And before this situation, before we need to find a space where we can define ourselves politically, before this context, is when the elected bodies decide to create a legitimate space, because we find ourselves at a time when the Spanish State does not let us do our institutions politics. Because the mere fact of opinion and political positioning bothers the powers of the State, and bothers them in such a way that they seem to want to return to legislation of other times, of Francoist times. Do they really want to return to Law 191 of 1964, of associations? Because if the answer is no, they hide it very well. In fact, as I said – as I said – our case, the mere fact of thinking, disturbs the powers of the State. And from here– from here– this coral, transversal and necessary response of the legitimate differences, which those enrolled in the Assembly of Elected Carrecs bear associated with their election. Because our greatest loyalty is to the citizen and citizens of Catalonia, with whom, every day, the elects close the compromise they have acquired at the polls. And I just did the same way I did in the first intervention. Our support for the initiative of the Assembly of Elected Carrecs, which, I repeat, is a democratic, legal area and which responds to the noble objective of the struggle for human, civil and political rights. Congressman, poor, free and self-determination. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.279.0	The next question to the government is about university. [[Asking the Government about university]] [[300-00191/12]] And the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs.Alícia Romero. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.280.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, councillors, councillors, deputies and deputies. You are well aware that this is not the first time that the Socialist Group and Units for Progress has been asking the government about universities. Since the year 2012, the university has been suffering from important details. In fact, it was the Government of Convergence and Union, collected by Esquerra Republicana, which made that 30_per_cent breakdown in the financing and increase of 66_per_cent of university fees. We have not failed to ask, from then on, the different governments that the Generality has had to reverse these details and reduce taxes. U, to maintain and strengthen the quality of our universities, both in teaching and in research, but we have also asked to maintain and strengthen the equality of opportunity and access to university, which should represent the university, this social elevator, which today is more difficult and more difficult to relax than in other decades. We have approved, moreover, various motions in this Parliament which go on this line, the line of increasing funding, but there is no way that the Government applies, approves that Parliament approves, and therefore, the will of Parliament, the will of the people which, quite often, is said in this Parliament. The public universities, moreover, through the ACUP, which is the Catalan Association of Public Universities, have asked it in different communications, in a very strong way: the strengthening of funding to the universities, for which they are patenting, in order to maintain this quality, but the truth is that they do not find themselves, do not have a positive response, in this sense. Finally, they came to make a joint act to the Paranimf of the UB, in which they approved a manifesto that asked the Government to 'listen and that in the proper assumptions are incorporated the 900_millions that here it is approved in July, due to a young man of the group that I represent. Surely, at some other time – I don't know about history – you could say that we all agree that knowledge is important, that it is necessary to make a bet for knowledge, to generate it at university, because this kind of social, economic progress, through innovation processes in sectors such as industry or health, but today I can't make this statement. And I don't know why we say things that aren't complete afterwards, and the government's inconsistency is very important in this sense. So I think we can say that today. We're hoping the government is doing what it's committed to, which is putting forward assumptions. He said before October 31st, today's the 12th, they haven't introduced him. But in this proposal to enter Parliament, there are these 900_million for the university. It would be the best example and the greatest realization that the university really concerns them, they want knowledge to be at the center of the economy and be an economic and social development engine of this country. That would be the gesture, the most important fact that would show what I was saying. But we have very little hope because, as I said, the government, Esquerra and Juntes for Catalonia, have dropped out of college. It's been a while since he was abandoned. And I say this with a certain sadness and concern – and I try not to raise the whole, which seems to be someone who doesn't like it – but I say so, because it's the feeling that they probably have the Rectors and Rectors of Catalonia, both for what they do to finance, as I say, and for what they have experienced in the past weeks on university campuses. Before – and you know it very well, because we have all seen it – some students who wanted to speak and protest against the judgment of the process, others wanted to develop their academic activity with all normality. There are two rights to be guaranteed, the right to protest and protest and, obviously, also the right to attend class and that the teacher can exercise his or her teaching activity. But this has not been guaranteed in the same way and it is true that these two rights have not occurred in the same way. In fact, in many cases, we have seen how many students have prevented the normal activity at the university of these students who wanted to develop their classes. And moreover, unfortunately, we have seen many students who have protested with their faces covered, using force to prevent other students from developing their activities. And it seems to me that this image of violence as a tool to achieve goals or to defend legitimate ideas is not the path. And it's not the path, surely, nor is it the image we want from our university. And we've had doubts, it's not a thought, huh? , to make this inquiry, because it is a difficult inquiry, because we, above all, respect university autonomy. But we read an article that was published by the Rector of the University of Barcelona, who, moreover, is the president of the Catalan Association of Public Universities, and he was very strong in this article that was published on October 31st, right? His title was: "The university isn't all that good. And I'd like to read some piece of it, which probably led us to move this anxiety and this concern of the rectors, of all the people who work at the university, in relation to what has happened, right? He says, to the article: "We have... – I say it in castle because it was so published – "We have been able to see images that produce a huge concern and must be commented on, basically because in university not everything is worth. Society expects a lot from university students because we can provide useful and effective solutions in many realities, because it is in the university where they acquire and teach skills that allow society itself to advance and reach high levels of development. Of course, university students are not the only professionals called to improve our society, the world, but of course they are a fundamental part of such an achievement. We would not all agree that the university should be a space of reflection, of dialogue, of respect, of tolerance, of coexistence; an autonomous space of political and economic power; a space of creation, of thought; a space where critical experience is encouraged, if you are convinced to doubt, to doubt that many times it is planted? This is what we all want, or believe, or grow at least, or believe from our group that should be the university, and not impose anything by force. We think the debate is one of the elements that I should be, that I should have more at the university. That is why we have suffered so much from these images that we have seen in many faculties, it has been forbidden by force that some students and some teachers may, therefore, develop their activity with a certain normality. I don't know if we should all promote the neutrality of an institution as plural as university, I also have doubts. And I think doubting is good. And I'm telling you why we've probably been critical at college that in a few moments of crisis it hasn't been positioned, many times, has it? And, therefore, if it's position it's no longer neutral. But maybe we should try to make sure that when you make positions you are the majority. And probably what the university has done in the past few weeks is just to make manifest or to make proclamations or positions on their part. Many closed petitions have been called by their members, but they have been approved manifests that they are not majority citizens, there has not been a debate in the entire university about some positions. And they clearly believe they're manifest on the side. And we wouldn't have to use the university unless we had to make the university a space for debate about different positions. That would be the smart one. We were more pleased to see students discussing different positions than non-students using force to prevent access to the classroom. We think this is what should have happened. But, as I said, we haven't seen, we haven't listened to the government all these weeks: not a reflection, not a comment, not a tweet, have we? We believe politics should not be done through tweets, but how they use it a lot, so we have not read a tweet either. Look, it's hard for us: the rectors of public universities, who are very important institutions, where they study and form, and generate knowledge, with a very important community, so they haven't had the call of President Torra to convey their concern. I am no longer saying it, therefore, for many other things, but I am sure as a minimum to convey their support, their ancestors or ask how they were living the situation. They haven't rejected these tricks. President Torra did not meet with the rectors of the universities. And, on the other hand, President Torra did find those five minutes or that half hour to meet some of the members of the cloister who pushed some manifestos on their side. We want a president of all. In fact, the president should be from all over the country. And, on the other hand, he was unable to call, to meet with the rectors of public universities to comment on the situation and certainly the anguish that they had suffered, and the concern, many rectors, as Rector Elias of the UB told us, but on the other hand he did find himself in the mood to meet with those who promoted manifestos that we believe are on the side, legitimate, but probably not to use the university with political objectives. We would like to have a president – we said in the previous question – of everyone, who is concerned about the welfare of everyone, and we believe, therefore, that this has not been done. We have prestigious universities, valued worldwide, well placed in the ranks, and we should try to keep this so that quality is rewarded, that quality is protected, more financially, as I said before, but also with more care and attention on the part of our governments and in this case also on the part of President Torra, who we believe has abandoned universities and those people who lead them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.281.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, Mr. Jordi Puignero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.282.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, very late. The truth is, I was already missing, huh? , debate with Congresswoman Romero, since the debates those for the external payments of public office. She had to go to Japan to look for investments and to do a lot of work for the country in order to have this opportunity. In any case, tell him that, in the first place..., and allow me, therefore, that today, on the subject of universities, I also spoke, therefore, of the great task that universities make in Catalonia, to situate this country as a referent of knowledge, eh? , and in addition to the knowledge of the 21st century, where the technological and digital knowledge becomes phonetic, and the first-hand knowledge. I don't think you can address this debate that you raised without hearing a little context, huh? , the political context that he saw at these times Catalonia and that you should know very well; a context of a political situation that is exceptional. We are in front of a feeling that has moved Catalan society, which many consider unfair – I regret that you do not consider it unfair–; putting a hundred years in prison for a whole government and for members of a government, but also for members of civil society, for having put ballots, for having defended democracy, I believe that I cannot leave anyone indifferent. And I'd like that Socialist Party, huh? Instead of seeing 'lsen the canto of the bank of Ciutadans and of the People's Party, lying in another bank, defending, therefore, what has been an absolutely unfair feeling for this country. Look, we're playing at these moments, not just the present, but the future of Catalonia. And like the future goes through young people, it's normal, huh? And I don't think anyone would be surprised that the students, that the university students, then, are the first to rise up, to protest, to steal changes. I don't understand how this surprises you, I can't hear it; it's part of the paper that you've always made young people in any political or social claim that has been made in this country. Why do they surprise them now that this is happening? In fact, the number of universities or universities we have seen these days is not exceptional; what is exceptional is the situation in this country. And to recognize it, to recognize that this is happening, would be the best to start giving solutions and answers precisely to what the origin of this problem has been. The facts of these days have to be framed, therefore, in respect of two rights. You mentioned one, which is the right to go to class, huh? But the right-of-the-way also has to defend him, huh? And I understand that finding balance in respect for these two rights is precisely what the university cloisters have done and are doing, as does this government, when they are produced in other areas of their society. We must be able to guarantee this right to freedom, which is obviously a constitutional right, which is also a right, which in this case guarantees an organic law of universities, and also the right to attend class. Look, we at universities don't give them guidelines, which we give them autonomy. And that, listen, that's what a law says, huh? ; in fact, as Article 4 of the Law of Universities of Catalonia says, we recognize precisely this principle of university autonomy. And that's why we've been doing this for these weeks, where these waves are happening on the part of students and university students. But, listen, this isn't just here in Catalonia. Miri, I'll show you something, which is today, exactly, huh? You say, "Listen, it's the political thing to do in the universities, it's the question of how the cloisters and... Miri, this is today: "Spanish rectors believe that not forming a government in Spain would be a genuine suicide. I didn't see you're complaining about this statement, huh? As, if you like, I also teach you the pronouncements that Brexit made to angled universities. Therefore, it is normal that the clauses, therefore, end up manifest for problems that arise in our society. In fact, I have the manifesto that has been signed by the group of Catalan universities, which you said was not a waste. Listen, do you not agree that expressing your support to all civil and peaceful mobilizations in favour of civil rights and for the freedom of persons convicted, prosecuted and deprived of their liberty? Don't you agree? That's what the manifesto said that they approved the Catalonian cloisters. Does he not agree with the rejection of repression and police violence, which has already caused heavy injuries to demonstrators, with the adversarial use of prohibited methods in different regulations, own and international; does he express the conviction, too, that in a democratic and mature culture there is no other way to resolve conflicts and political differences than dialogue, negotiation, respect for the democratic expression of popular will? Don't you agree with that, Mr. Romero? I think this manifesto... Go, I think it expresses, huh? , you'll feel the most in our country. And, in fact, so, the university, what is it, in the background? So it's the pulse of the country. So we can't be surprised that these days, so these events are happening. So, listen, the mission the government has is not to focus on the ordinary, daily work of a university, but above all to mark the strategic course of the country's knowledge ecosystem. This is the most important obligation a government has. And that's what we're dedicated to and what we're doing in this case, Constable Chacón, with the approval of the National Knowledge Society Pact. And so what is important from all sides is how this country positions this environment with respect to competition and international competitiveness. And if you weren't doing well and you weren't doing well the ones that preceded us, from the Andreu Mas-Colell..., or the former secretary of universities; so if you weren't doing well, listen, we wouldn't have these data as good at both national and global university levels. Catalonia has three universities among the 100 best European universities, including Austria. In the state domain, for the ninth consecutive edition, three Catalan universities encapsulate the ranquing: UPF, UAB and UB. In the area of the Spanish State, four Catalan public universities are among the eight best. Three universities between the one hundred and fifty million fifty of the world under fifty years of age: UPC, UPF and Ramon Llull. Listen, I could go on. Therefore, something must be doing well positioning as we are positioning the universities, these knowledge centers, the ecosystem, their technological centers. That's the important thing, anyway. Or, for example, an investment as important as that of the supercomputer, a determining infrastructure for which the future of knowledge must be in the digital realm of massive data. That's what they should be worried about. Therefore, we are speaking that our university system and our knowledge system is a success story – it is a success story – Mrs Romero. And, listen, it's true that there have been waves and that... what can't be is that there are waves that please them and waves that don't please them. I, listen, there were you... I'm sure you were the first to defend the students' waves for detail. I'm sure they liked them. Or surely they also agree with the waves that students make today, each diver, with Fridays for Future, for climate change. I'm sure they give them up, I'm sure this looks perfect. How can it be, then, that they do not agree with the waves of students claiming rights and freedoms, that there are no policies undertaken to put the ballot boxes? Is there first wave and second wave, Mrs. Romero? Is that what we're talking about? Miri, I don't like the waves in general; I respect them, huh? I don't like them, but I respect them. Because I think a vacancy is the frac of negotiation, it's the frac of politics. At the moment when the instrument of the wave is to be used, all other instruments have failed. And the waves you've had in college today are because politics in the Spanish State has failed, because you don't want to sit on a negotiating table. She said this before Councilwoman Budo: the slogan "sit and talk is not by chance; it is because from politics we can resolve this political conflict that exists today between Catalonia and Spain. And it's no concern, that if this conflict is resolved, these waves will end immediately. Therefore, I would like to ask the Socialist Party, with all due respect – now we will have, or will have, a new opportunity; it seems to be that there will be government, by the way, in Spain –, therefore, that this new legislature with this spirit, with this spirit of "sit and talk, to negotiate, to return to politics and to stop bringing to justice and to other institutions what we should be able to resolve politically our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.283.0	To make the answer is the return, again, of the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.314.0	[[Thank you, President. Buf, it's so "tired, this speech of self-completion, really, huh? It's that, look what I'm trying to get out here, make an intervention with a tone, try to be constructive, conciliatory, but it's that I don't get out with you – I don't get out with you.]] [[Then, the purists say: "She is indignant. Home, see how I don't have to be outraged! Go here and tell us that it's all collonut, that it's fantastic, the universities, to be... I've already said it myself – I've already said it. That's the point, that Catalan universities are prestigious and have a lot of quality and we're going out on the run, that's right. But he knows, he knows you're not listening? The one they don't care about. The rector of the UB came here, before the summer, to compare himself to the Commission of Enterprise and Knowledge as president of the ACUP, and he was very hard on the situation at the universities, they said they were in difficult danger – in difficult danger – of starting to get out of these troubles. Hardly brushed. But you didn't listen to it, you don't read appearances or it's the same, because you just create your own account and some lies. And it's good, it's good self-contained.]] [[Oh, listen, they made a manifesto and presented it to the paranimf of the UB asking for funding for the universities and you at the moment do not give an answer to this, despite the fact that it was approved in this Parliament in a motion: 900 million euros by 2020. See if we can see them. See if university and knowledge, and ecosystem, and research centers and technology are so important. Let's see if it's true – let's see if it's true – that we see 900 million euros and 100 million euros in reverse, that there are some of the academic and research spaces in some university centers.]] [[Follow him, self-contained. Can't we just say that there are things that go well and things that don't? Here we always look at the coin and always look at things from one perspective. And that's really "candid." And sometimes – and I said it this morning – I don't think they're listening enough – they're not listening enough.]] [[Because I did not say that there is only one right to be respected, I said that there are two rights, the one that is manifest, that is to be guaranteed, because it is a constitutionally recognized right, but this right cannot be met by the one who really wants to maintain a normalized doccent activity. And I'm not just saying it, it's what the UB rector said in this article he published. And he didn't respect himself, because we've seen in the rape classes, we've seen in the attitudes that can't be allowed in college. At the university we should..., that is, we should be seeing and "enjoying with debates about different positions, in relation to the process or many other things, and in a different way, we have not seen the cover, we have seen people forcing others to leave or enter the classroom and not allow the activity, and/or forcing the Rectors many times to cancel the academic activity. Home, this is a reality. If you don't want to see her, don't see her.]] [[And I don't say that you, or I or you don't have to empathize with one another, we can empathize with the two, with the two collections that think differently, with those who want to study, with those who don't, but what I asked or asked of this government is a certain concern for such important institutions in Catalonia, and a call from the president, to say, "Listen, Rector, how is it, how is it, how do you need our support? Souls. Go on, I don't know if it's so much to ask, if the president of Catalonia can't call the rectors to show solidarity and say, "Look, how did he go?; to Rector Casals, who suffered so much, one of the days. Home, it's that, honestly, if it's no longer up to a president, then turn it off and let's go, because I don't know what we're doing here anymore or anyone, honestly.]] [[And then, the use that is done – which the rector says and I want to read a sentence – the use that is done and how it is politicized what happens to the university. He said: "Let us not remain alone in university, it would not be fair, this article is also necessarily the responsibility of those politicians, whatever color they are, who have believed that they can find electoral revenue in the university situation we are living in right now, and are using it without thinking about the damage they can do to university.]] [[So it's true, using it from politics, but also from those who do politics in college, it's a mistake. And I'd agree, and we'd agree that there was a debate, that you have thought hard, listen to me, or raising your voice, you'd just miss it, but violence seems to me not to be a waste.]] [[To guarantee the two rights, we say so. He didn't give support to the rectors on this line, although it's true that they have autonomy and that on their campuses they are the ones who decide, but I think that a trick is not much more to stand next to him at these difficult times.]] [[And I'm also saying: I don't get to approve the cloisters, because among other things..., I don't know if it's going to happen to other groups of this chamber, but the cloisters, even though they're called in with more or fewer members, democratically approve some functions. I can agree with it more or less, but if democraticly I approve it, nothing to say; I will like it more or less – that we can say, obviously, no?, from our personal point of view – but I think we probably shouldn't have to carry the following five positions that generate a certain conflict. I already know in which world I live, but that's exactly why I think the university might have to boost the debate and not confront it through positions, because the confrontation has been, between all the academics.]] [[Therefore, listen to me, the university through the ACUP also made a manifesto that was positioned with a different situation, much more open, much more surely respectful, as the CRUE has done now, "that there is government, because there is already government, and so much good there is a government here that governs, that is not what happens. There's no government, but there's no government.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.315.0	[[Thank you, Congresswoman. (Whispering) Quiet. To make the answer is the counselor's turn. When he wants to.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.316.0	Finally, we must also be able to respect university autonomy. And as I have said before, the government, as its main mission, will understand, is to guarantee the ecosystem, to guarantee the financing of this ecosystem and to give absolute autonomy of centre to which it must be the resolution of the ordinary elements that happen in a university, from the systems of evaluation, as is the solution of the problem in a certain vagueness and, therefore, focusing the efforts above all in which I said to the beginning. And, in this sense, within university autonomy there are also elements and instruments of guarantee and quality in order to be able, precisely, to guarantee other elements that are more of a day-to-day, than they could be of the ordinary assessment of the day-to-day of the university. We are talking, therefore, about the Agency for the Quality of the University System of Catalonia, which has to do precisely this function and that since the government we have full confidence that currently the universities in Catalonia are guaranteeing these two rights. Therefore, it guarantees the right to those students who want and believe that they are playing the future of their country, that they are playing their social and economic future and, therefore, that they defend it as we do the rest of the city in those circles where we believe fit, also here in the Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.284.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the closure of universities imposed by violent]] [[300-00193/12]] The following question corresponds to the item set out in the order of the day and is the question to the Government on the closure of the universities imposed for the violent, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The question is made by Mr Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.285.0	Well, thank you very much, Mr. President. Deputies, deputies, public that accompany us today and that follow us through the networks and, obviously, good late to the two advisors present. Today Ciutadans, today we want to talk about freedom, freedom at university campus and, in this case, the unfortunate lack of freedom at university campus. An essential right at the university, a right that is now being violated at various university campuses in Catalonia, because we consider that freedom is absolutely necessary and we are seeing cases and examples continuously where it is missing. Therefore, from the utmost respect that you know... – at least the counselor with whom you usually know perfectly well – the maximum respect that we have for university autonomy and chair freedom, we would like to comment on a few examples that I see you have not deepened in the previous question and I would like to take advantage of. One of the images, for example, a faculty with four encapsulated – four, god, twelve, would say the same if they were much more, but they were few –, four encapsulated cowards boycotting, parapets at the entrance of a faculty. This is the image, this is the scene. Outside, five hundred students and teachers – some accompany us today in case you want to go deeper into this description, into this picture – trying to enter, asking textually: "We want to go to class. This image I imagine that you, as a counselor, before entering with this inquiry you will have reviewed it, you will have looked at it. It's a scene similar to that on other university campuses. We've had rectorate occupations, we've had rectorate occupations for days. We've had this on all Catalan campuses. We have seen threats of all kinds, insults, coercion, including assaults, shots, always obviously with absolute absence from anyone who guarantees the safety and freedom of these students who claim to be classy. If you were the Counsellor of Enterprise and University, to whom you asked when we did this to the Commission of Enterprise, I would ask you: "Counselor, do you share this rape? Now, certainly, this question right now falls apart have listened to you. Basically because, for example, I was thinking today, Mr. Torra, obro comets, textually: "Youth mobilized and compromised is a very precious value. Of course, as I say to you, if this violence seems good to you in the faculties, after seeing a president who is still animating and rewarding today and applauding that he can safely close the highway that connects us to France with the economic losses that this is entailing. Of course, you're not the business advisor, but I think the government's response could come to this. Clearly, the funny thing is that I travel strength by train– in fact, I do it every day–, and on the shared train, I have the pleasure of sharing many things, one of them is that I find myself the secretary of universities. If you were the counselor, I think I'd know him enough, because he'd be a person named for you. The days of rape, the days of extreme rape at the universities – I think they already know me a lot of you –, I came over and told them..., we're always talking about universities, this time I talked about the lack of freedom at the universities, and I said, "Do you see the pictures of what's going on on on campus right now, yesterday afternoon, this morning? In fact, I did, practically, for three days in a row, in direct time; sometimes I share with him the year and sometimes also the tornado. That was happening on campus. Do you know what he's gonna answer? – and you do; she said it, not you, yet it will look like it. "The exceptional is the political situation, not the protests. Do those words sound to you? You just told them, textually. I guess I'm off the hook, huh? , if it's exactly... – that coincides fully with what the secretary of universities thinks; or maybe it's that someone wrote it exactly who is the position, textual, that you should read. What's the matter with you? Because, look, you don't want a free university. You want it politicized; including – I correct – you want it politicized and independent. And we don't think there's enough magic thinking. We know, naturally – he's talking to the representative of the Universities that Ciutadans has – that we have good universities, no doubt. We know we have them in prestige, I don't doubt it. Here, I didn't doubt anyone. Now, you see that you have the tendency – you just did – to address the lack of freedom – that with images I think is obvious – with other things, such as university quality. If you were the advisor who asked him about university issues – they just explained it – you would know perfectly well... Here we also talked about shortcomings in university and that it seems that you, among this magical thought, systematically obliterate: the English B2, taxes, scholarships, the internationalization potential that can empower, the transfer of knowledge... They just said it! The last appearance we had at the Commission d'Empesa, where the representative of the Rectors came here to ask for help, so you don't help. Do not explain to us things of which you know perfectly well that you are far away. And all this is happening with his connivance, because the more I want to say it: to universities there is a reason. It's about rectors, it's about teachers, and it's about students who are with us today and those who are in the classroom, because they've seen these campuses locked up with pickets, with violence with hoods, and that, counselor, it's for. Because it's because he doesn't have rights and freedoms. Counselor, why do you need to be written by teachers on your desks to ask us for help because you – as political leaders, obviously – are not giving them there. You got it. They're probably teachers who don't normally talk to you or you don't meet them, but they don't. I'm talking to these students who ask you to be free, free to go to class. Has your government ever been asked, Mr. Torra, you – to the councilwoman I don't have the chance to ask 'there' today – how do these students feel, how do they feel about college? Something else that today has forgotten the socialist representative: the manifesto of the rectors to which you have alluded... Miri, the sentence is published, it is given to know the 14th of October, in the new and middle of the morning. The rectors sent a statement of reply to this sentence at 10.23. They did not need, the Rectors of Catalonia, of the Catalan public universities, nor sixty minutes, councillor, to read the five hundred fulls of the Sentence, to make an individual evaluation, to agree with the rest of the rectoral teams and to write a letter of reply. Don't scratch it, you, anything? Something, isn't it? Miri, the cloister, you were talking about the cloister. So I'll say more. Yes, yes, I know: the cloister will rise, it shows in favor of independence, of what he said, of prisoners, of the sentence..., yes, yes, you do so with the gesture. Now I'll tell you one more thing: to you grinyola – for a moment, huh? – that more than 50_per_cent of the cloister members did not appear in the cloister those days? [[Greetings.]] Anything grinyola her? Is it really this majority, is it this feeling that you want, here, to represent the cloister? More than 50 percent didn't go? You don't remember a little, that, why should I tell you? One of the chanting. Don't you scratch it...? I think..., I don't know if I know: I, before entering politics, was deputy delegate of the Faculty of Medicine and also devoted myself to implementing grades and assessing questions. Do you know how complicated it is to modify the academic evaluation process of teaching guides? You mentioned some of the things you need to do to change this. You don't grin anything, that when it's for an independentist cause, in a late, in a couple of hours, you can do all this, clearly violating academic norms? Don't you scratch anything? Let there be public lists in which the teachers tell the students: « Point out here. If you're good protestors for the cause, then we'll be clear, huh? , academic and evaluation needs regulated and we will make a new system. Doesn't that grind the counselor – or, in any case, the counselor, if she has given him any instructions – who makes regulations to facilitate chaos? Isn't that what you're grinning about, Counselor? Miri, from Ciutadans we believe that we must not give in to the violent; that we must guarantee university autonomy and freedom; that we must stop facilitating university politics. Because freedom is a fundamental pillar of democracy; because the fundamental rights are not negotiated, they are guaranteed; because there is not enough to banish violence, as they are doing. I'm not giving in to the chanting. And from here I want to thank all those teachers, students and NOT that you're defending freedom, because we'll always be with you. Not a step back, ever, defending freedom. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.286.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, has the word now the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, the advisor Lord Jordi Puigneró. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.287.0	President, Members, Member, well, in the first place, let me..., surely some of the arguments I have to repeat to you, to remind you what I have already told Mrs Romero, but I would, in the first place, like to remind you of a question, and it is the little parliamentary courtesy that your group has. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, that's it. You've taken advantage of it, haven't you? , take advantage of the councillor's absence to enter this inquiry, which was further demanded, therefore, that, if in any case it dealt with its scope, it could be done in a subsequent, said, full. Anyway, they don't even respect parliamentary courtesy anymore, huh? We know they don't respect many things, but they don't even respect parliamentary courtesy. Look, you've made a speech a lot of feelings, huh? You talked about why, didn't you? For a band, he talked about freedom. You have spoken to the citizens of Catalonia..., no, not to you, to the citizens who are living in Catalonia, who are obviously in a position to the antipodes of you and who today, to go to demonstrations, must pass, therefore, hours or days to the prison, if they have for or do not have for, simply why are they passing through there? Did you ask them? Has there been any attempt to empathize with a citizen of Catalonia who is patenting repression for part of a state and, therefore, is suffering for part of a state? Have you made any gestures, do anything to hear what you think, according to you, the other half of the country? Am I a fan? Because every time I come to this Parliament, I'm sure they don't make it. Maybe now, they've been smokin' them a little bit, there, electorally, so... [[Funnel veils]] "Smoker," "Smoker, yes, it is an expression that I serve, yes," they may now understand, eh? That maybe the path they were following, that path of confrontation in Catalonia, maybe not carrying them. And maybe you should start thinking that when you talk about feelings and how they say you feel... you think who caused all this. Miri, I'm just gonna say... various things. One: the first one they have to do is to hear what is the context we live in. You say sometimes: "No, it's that you live in Matrix, eh? But where do you live? Which country do you live in? [[Widow's remorse.]] Have they not agreed, that this country is in a process, for more than two years, in a democratic way, using Parliament, to try to achieve objectives that there is a state that systematically prevents, using all its instruments so that a majority of this country can continue to advance? It's more: it doesn't just do this, but, to exercise democracy, it sends a hundred years to prison. And that sounds like it to you, huh? which is freedom, as you used to say... this seems normal. Whether there are some protesters or there are some students who can't go to college or who can't go in one day because there's a spot in college, that's a big scandal. And, obviously, I respect that people can go to class, about this right, like that of manifestation. But you, for that matter... in a different way, it is not scandalized that, because there are political representatives of this Parliament who have put up a few ballot boxes, today they are sentenced to a hundred years in prison. Or because there are people who are going to demonstrations, they are currently in a jam. Or that terrible accusations of terrorism are made against people who – as he points out – have nothing to do with it. Therefore, I believe that in this sense the young people of this country, obviously, have seen after two years..., have risen... I am sure that..., perhaps not you, the Ciutadans may not, but here there are, therefore, a lot of people, in this Parliament, and certainly their parents, who have to fight and have to manifest themselves from universities in order to be able to claim the democracy that we have today. So the young people who are protesting today, if they are protesting, ask 'why are they doing it, why are they doing it, why are there so many people today mobilizing, protestant, including some of them carving communication lives. Why do you think people are doing this? Why do they think so? Why? Because they see that their future is at stake, that the future of this country is at stake. And so, if young people do, it's the most normal thing to be the first, and it's the universities where we've always seen the right to protest, to rise up, has been, to say the least, the first place where this happened along the history of this country and many countries. The university space – I'm going back to say, huh? – it's not something exceptional. You want to sell it as something exceptional. The reason they don't like them is the reason why they do not like them; that's the reason they don't like them. Because other waves surely seem fine to them. When every divender is manifested by the theme of the climate, surely there is no inconvenience here. Or when they do it for other reasons, for detail or whatever... so it turns out that it's only when it's early, huh? against the rights, in this case, and the freedoms of this country to decide its future. And, therefore, what is not exceptional is the situation in this country. And when I understand the situation in this country, they'll understand why things like these last few weeks are happening. They're doing this effort, please. Now that they've brought down two deputies, they're making the effort– they're making the effort– to understand and try to empathize with a lot of people in this country that they also..., and they're living with the repression that's being painted by this Spanish state that you're defending in a layer and spasm, and that they don't do a bit of self-criticism. Look, we, at universities, go back to saying it, we don't give them guidelines; what we give them is autonomy. And, therefore, these questions that you pose to us, of the clauses, of how to resolve the issue of assessments, are not questions in which the Government has to, to say so, give a concrete guideline. We have to make sure that the system of knowledge, the university system, which we have taken care of so much at the length of these years, and that we have here a secretary who has not been involved, of this good work, in this half-year, as also Councillor Andreu Mas-Colell and those who have preceded him... So this is what we dedicate to from the government, and that is why we believe it is fundamental, so that we can continue to improve our universities, to continue improving the system of knowledge, that this assumption is finally approved for 2020. This is a premise that will contemplate important improvements in the academic field... I look at them because I think they can be locked in this pocket; I know that the lords of Ciutadans..., go, we no longer expect anything. But in any case, if they really care about the university, as we do, if they really think we need to continue to improve the infrastructure and continue to be well positioned, as we are today... And, therefore, they don't make such a catastrophic speech. I said this before to Mrs Romero: we lead many of the ranks at the level not only of the State, but also that we are well positioned at the European level. So something must be doing good. What's to get better? Obviously. If we didn't suffer from the fiscal deficit we suffered in our country, we would certainly do much better. And that, which neither do you worry them... because at the end of the day we would have to lay on the table that worries the Lord of Ciutadans, beyond the unit of Spain, which worries them. You're a party that was born in Catalonia, and in turn you seem to be doing politics against Catalonia, against things that concern Catalans, and this is one. Therefore, please do not want to do anything unusual, when it is something that happens to our society in many different areas, and worry that our universities, our knowledge system is well equipped to finance, help us to descale and reduce this unbearable fiscal deficit that we suffer from on the part of the State and that would help resolve this situation immediately. And, in any case, how do I know that they would not give support to the assumption that we would properly present on behalf of the Government of Catalonia, as at least I have, therefore, the decency not to talk about for and freedom. Because the main ones we're kicking for Catalonia today are the majority of citizens in front of a state that doesn't stop repressing us. And that's it. Listen, we have people in prison, people in exile, people who are... you've been talking about rape. Listen, the violence that the Spanish police used in Catalonia in the last few years... – yes, yes, the violence that they used – this is the violence that you would have to report and that you haven't done yet. Because we're reporting all the rapes. If an incident has occurred at Catalan universities, we denounce it. We report all the rapes, you do the same. And, therefore, we don't give more sermons about what freedom is and what violence is in this country, because we know it very well because the patim, in the second case. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.288.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply has the word again the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.289.0	Well, thank you so much again, President. MPs and MPs, let me make three briefs quickly. The first is to ask him for immediate correction; you have commented on my lack of parliamentary courtesy, because I have not heard this question today. Since we have the President of the Parliament here, he has seen me here from early morning, you have seen me all late, and neither have you nor the President, asked me that I, by courtesy of Parliament, swallowed this, basically, because I was informed that you would be my adviser, answer this question, this late. In fact, also the parliamentary courtesy, if you have given me the option of asking the councillor and not you, because you do not read me what you read, only to be able to ask me what I really cared about, which was the lack of freedom on campus, believe me, I took advantage to do so. In fact, an exhibition of parliamentary courtesy, I don't think they said it either, today we have a Member here who made the inquiry because they asked her, out of parliamentary courtesy, to postpone her from the previous plenary, and so we did. Therefore, I ask you to rectify, because, to you, I don't know who said it, but they misinformed him. Second of all, you say if we go or don't go to college and if we talk or don't talk to the students, so it's obvious that, clearly, you don't know, so, who was talking to. Yes, obviously, if I'm..., like it's my competence to go to college and talk to the students, I invite you, if I want to, then, then talk to the people who are here, to talk to him... You're asking which country we live in. Well, like today I still have doubts as to whether you haven't heard, yes, yes, we live in Spain and we're in Spain. Thank you. (Applause.) But entering again into the axis of freedom, which is the interpellation that today wanted to do and wants to do Citizens, you have already seen what is happening today in Catalonia, here there is complicity of the Government, whether equidistantly when not with a clear support as we have also seen, either by action or by omission. Preventing freedom on campuses and facilitating violence, chaos and fear. Look how hard it is for you to condemn violence; I see it as very simple, but, of course, it is then that we see how you trample here, day by day, democracy and, paradoxically, then come here, stay so wide, and claim it. It's really amazing. Because what we have seen these days on university campuses is absolutely unquestionable: the image of hooded people – I doubt that even some were even students – threatening freedom to teachers, students and everyone who wants to study and teach and investigate freely. This is what we've seen. And since I don't want to use my words alone, I want to point out to a free person who is an ex-rector of the University of Lleida, former president of the CRUE, a person who obviously knows the subject and who now as a non-rector speaks freely, I'm going to read you three things. "The University, if it preserves neutrality, serves all citizens; if it takes sides, it serves only one part. The fundamental premise is that academic authorities are institutional representatives of all members of the university community and are not of any specific political choice, since they are not representative political positions. And that is precisely why, within the framework of a democratic society, it has the inexorable obligation to maintain the independence and institutional neutrality of the University as one of its main ethos. I recommend that, even if it isn't the university advisor, you read what the ex-rectors publish. Because I will be very clear: no to violence, enough to allow violence on campuses because we want freedom. From here, I want to send a message of thanks to all those who are defending freedom, courageous, for your courage in defending rights. Because we're going for a moment to support you – even if the counselor doesn't know it – but we're leaving and you're staying. You students defend the ability to go to class and we support you, because time passes fast and the students know that the time to take advantage of classes is now. You too, the teachers, defend giving the class free and from here count with all our support. That is why we say to you, once again: not a step back, not a step back in the defence of rights and freedoms. We will not give them, because they are our railway convictions, because fundamental rights are not negotiated, because freedom cannot be negotiated and, for all that, we want freedom to be able to study, with all the right, without violence on campuses, without threats, without fear of anyone or anything. Because, in short, we believe that freedom must always be guaranteed. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.290.0	To make the reply, it's up to the counselor again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.291.0	Yes, President. Congressman, listen, you're not the freedom, if you're the one to ban everything! If they wanted to, including, ban the camp that took place there at the University Square and had to get out the JEC to tell them they weren't right! These are you. It's that I don't understand how they can talk to us so joyfully about freedom when they're the ones who, I think, believe in less, or believe in their freedom, and not theirs, that could also be the other way to hear freedom. Look, young people need to be educated about how to think, but not what they need to think and, therefore, the universities... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, yes, and therefore, universities must be neutral spaces... [[applause]] , yes, yes, where exactly this freedom of thought is respected. And you cannot impose, as you would like, therefore, a certain position respecting what a manifesto has been. And here I want to congratulate the teachers' cloisters, which I understand have... to approve this manifesto, no one..., they haven't, say, forced by anyone, and I could read them the contents of the manifesto. It seems to me that these spaces... I want to congratulate them because these spaces that are for the exercise of democratic debate, that have done all the Catalan public universities, reflect what is Catalan society today, which you deny. You always talk about us being a minority, or that there are a minority of Catalans who want to keep moving forward. Well, maybe you don't read well what election results are, don't read well what the pulse of society is, but this is a country that, for years now, wants to exercise its democratic rights. You, on the other hand, want to impose a certain model, which is the model of the Spanish State, on a Catalonia that votes one time to the other that wants a different model. And you deny your sister in a table... you haven't gone to the Palau de la Généralita to talk to President Torra. How do you want to talk about dialog? Listen, the rest of the parties have done so, and the whole People's Party – and the whole People's Party – are the only ones who have refused to take part in a table with President Torra to talk about the future of this country. But how can they talk about freedom? How can we talk about dialog? If you are the ones who deny freedom and deny the dialog. All sides. Miri, the universities have absolutely democratic bodies and bodies to guarantee some of the rights that you say this week have been inculcated. I've already said before, I'm in the mood, obviously, I don't like them. I respect them, but I don't like them. What I don't do is differentiation, huh? And what I also know is that when we get there or get there, it's because the policy fails, the dialog fails, the negotiation fails. Ask yourself what responsibility it is for you today in Catalonia to be ahead of such a complex political situation, where clearly citizenship and, therefore, university students, students, young people in this country have decided to take action like they do, for a while, huh? , to claim what must be their future, the economic, social future, but also freedoms, and that you do everything possible, from your political party, to prevent us from watching over them, we can resolve this peacefully and democratically, without limits, that each can put its proposals on the table and that a negotiated option can emerge from here. You've denied this possibility since the first day. So they can't give us the rest of the political groups in this Parliament without a lesson, it's that they can't give it, I think, to the People's Party. Miri, we're on our way. I believe that, frankly, the results of this week's Spanish elections will make you reflect, I think they would agree, I think they will find in this reflection the solution to how to continue advancing and facing what is the backs of this country, and I hope that they will not do as their leader did, well, exligate already, that it was surely wrong to provoke some new elections to the Spanish State. Don't be mistaken and see that the future of this country goes by sitting down, talking and finding a solution among all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.292.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the increase in unemployment and the deceleration of economic activity]] [[300-00192/12]] The next question is about the increase in unemployment and the deceleration of economic activity, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose the inquiry, has the word the deputy Mr Martí Pachamé. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.293.0	President, councillors, deputies, deputies, the official speech of the Government of the Generalitat is that Catalonia is fine. This is surprising when we review some of the economic data of reference, and it shows that the presumptive model of success of the Catalan economy is not so great. Then I'll make a special reference. Before it has to be made a special point that, given that the government has been engaged in other things and has not devoted itself to managing, we just have to see the times that we have to extend the assumptions, the growth of these last years is exclusively due to the winds of the international economy. These winds have been the following: the reduction in the interest rate of the Eurozone, the expansion policy of the European Central Bank has been a bálsam for the Spanish economy and, therefore, for the Catalan one. He has allowed Spain to be financed at a number of preferential types and, again, Catalonia, via the FLA or the financial facilities, since this year's fever, I could also do it. This appeal, even though many of them are facsimile, is the only one the Generalitat has to finance itself, since the rating of the autonomous communities condemns it, if I want to go to the financed markets, to pay a lot higher risk premiums. I have to remember that the use of the facilities financed by Catalonia supposes, for itself, that it wants 32_percent of the total aid to the different autonomous communications. We also remember that the generality's debt was at the June of this year around 79,000_million euros, almost 100_million euros more than last year. We also need to remember that the generality's debt is at a peak of EUR 72,000 since 2015. So we can talk, without doubt, about an irresponsible management of the debt during the years of economic expansion, so now that we are probably ahead of a period that, in the best of cases, is of less growth, that is to say reduction of the receipts and increase of the expenses, we will have practically no capacity to indebtedness more than we are already. Another wind of which is the oil squandering. For whom I didn't remember, the Brent dropped the barrel by thirty-two at least in 2016. In having lower structural costs, we think of the extreme external dependence of the Spanish economy on oil and that it is a key factor in maintaining and increasing our export competitiveness, an activity that our economy is very dependent on; in concrete terms, 31.62_percent of Catalan GDP. The economy of our exports, the evolution of these exports in the face of the best economics of the rest of the countries of the European Union and the United States, have also been a key factor, and more to our community, to maintain growth for these five years. The easing of the requirements of the European Commission to reduce the deficit in Spain has also contributed to the fact that the requirement, in this respect, is reduced in respect of Catalonia, facilitating the use of resources to reverse the breakdowns to health, education and social policies. But, notwithstanding this, the Generality, with the same funding pattern as the rest of the autonomous communities, has been lagging behind in meeting the levels of reversal of the detail to the pre-eclamation situation of the economic crisis. Details that, as we have to remember, caused President Mas to become emboldened with the stellate as he resorted to escape the social protest that in Catalonia and the rest of Spain burst out of the 15-M of 2011. The last point can probably be considered the most important: the boom of tourism. The fact that our pre-relationships were strongly competitive and that different social conflicts of falling into violent affections without competing tourist destinations – does this sound like the subject? – caused an unprecedented increase in the tourist occupation in our home and converted Barcelona into a top-level tourist destination in the world. All the positive effects that had compensated for the absence of government in Catalonia have gone one after the other. The oil is currently contributing around sixty dollars, i.e., an increase of one hundred per cent in the prices of the raw material that the most influence can have on the prices. Our exports are facing progressive difficulties, because the economic environment is no longer so favourable. The following must be added to the internal uncertainty generated by the process: Brexit, the return of protectionism and trade and orange wars, which negatively affect the export sector, on which Catalonia is very dependent. Tourism has also been affected, because, apart from the recovery of alternative tourist destinations, we have the negative effect of the last resorts that, for example, have forced to change the port many of the places that had cost to carry and, moreover, the anti-tourism campaigns that we have suffered. By luck or by misfortune, the European Central Bank will maintain the lax policy in terms of type of interest, for which the high levels of debt will not pass us in an immediate way, but we must bear in mind that they continue to be a heavy burden for the Catalan families and for the economic growth of our community. What the Generality has done – and we're talking about what's affecting us now – during all these years of economic recovery is nothing. The Generalitat has not managed anything during all these years; it is more, it has not only managed nothing, but has dedicated itself to torpedoing the potential growth of the Catalan economy, with an attempt of a coup d'état that has ended with pens of sedition for its chapters. As you know – and if not, I explain it now – the perverse effects of decisions certainly do not materialize immediately; it produces what is known as temporary lakes. The negative effects of the terrible events of 2017 have not yet passed us the entire bill, even though they have already sent us some scrap. This is because, above all, there are business decisions that have been taken a long time before and that cannot be drawn back, because the costs arising from these serious decisions outweigh the benefits that may be gained; decisions, above all, linked to maintenance investments. It's not the same thing he does to productive investments, and they're the ones who have the capacity to work and wealth for all of society. These, in the best of cases, are frozen in the hope of events. If while an alternative location appears – and in a globalized world I can already tell you that who does not fly – I am sure that the reversal will definitely lose. We have to remember, unfortunately, how the Medicines Agency lost. Or, more recently, the Climate Summit was not held in Barcelona, which was joined by Madrid, because of the hard buildings that were collapsing Barcelona a few weeks ago, and which, once the elections passed, will once again break the way of life for our people, cities and caravans. Governments, in liberal economies, like ours, must allow economic agents to interact with each other with the greatest possible freedom within the legal framework we have given each other. Governments need to be facilitators; it can never be those who own interbanks and those who harm economic growth. They've gone out of more than five thousand businesses, and they didn't do anything because they're coming back. And I'm telling you, it's very simple, they just have to follow the constitutional order. They do this, and I promise they won't have to do much more; they'll make themselves alone, as they left alone when the constitutional order broke. They don't come with the usual excuse, it's not the fault of the Decree Law 15/2017. The decree allows, does not force, and if the companies see it clearly they would not have any problem to return. Decisions have been made about their respect for the organs of government, not external taxation. The same way stockholders' general meetings voted to leave, they could vote to return. If they don't, it's because they don't see it clearly. How do you want me to get back to business, if we've got organization right now under the leadership of the government members who cut down roadblocks? It is more, that they go personally with official car to cut them; that they cut the border steps and cause losses of millions of euros to entrepreneurs and workers in the transport sector; that they cut international communications lives to stop the circulation, to prevent people from going to their work, which is winning their newspaper. What do they tell these people? What's for a higher cause? Why do they have to sacrifice themselves, while the policies that they hire are calmly at home paying more than a hundred and a thousand euros in the year? Of what is always shown at times is of the rate of the twilight; but it is not that there is anything special. The economic structure of our community is highly cyclical, and when things go well with us, they go better, and when they go badly, too. The data from the second quarter show a deceleration of the rate of reduction of atur, while a rate of atur almost '11_per_cents has to be deeply concerned. Especially if we make a breakdown by age and sex, then we find ourselves with a striking fact: the rate of the youths of twenty-four years old and younger in Catalonia, even though better than the rest of Spain – a 23,7, respects a 31,6 – can not be satisfactory, especially if we compare it to the rest of Europe, where the differences are far-reaching. In the eurozone, the median is 15.4_per_cent, and in Germany, it is 5.5. Who are the differentials that explain this brutal difference? In our house there are three times as many young as in Germany, with a population eleven times larger. The youth unemployment rate in Catalonia is more than four times German. Where can we find the difference, the justification? To education. While Germany has an obvious interest in doing dual vocational training, which allows you to train young people and prepare them for your entry into my job, here we have an absolute decrease for this type of education. And the most obvious evidence is that this week the public contest for the management of Martorell's vocational training centre has just been declared a desert. The other collection most affected by the weather, and no less important, is that of women, who suffer an 11,48 compared to 10,31. Nor can we force long and long-lasting stops: one_of_each_four stops more than two years ago that I can't find work; nor that of unemployed people who don't get a job. We see, day and day too, news about corporate bonds, relocations and EROs. According to the chamber, Catalonia will end this year with 4,940 admissions. This represents an increase of 51,2_per_cent compared to last year's xifra and the highest amount since 2015. These accommodations affect the industrial sector in particular. We have examples to see, with General Cable, SADA Group, Nissan, Bayer, among others. The questions I'd like to ask you: what does the government intend to do to ensure economic growth and the reduction of the rate of growth? Will you suddenly abandon the policies of misrepresenting the resources of all the Catalans used to finance the structures of the process? When will the government start thinking about all the Catalans so that no one is left behind? Finally, when will they decide to give full support to vocational training as a disruptive tool to reduce the youth's mood? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.294.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, the advisor of Work, Social Affairs and Families, Mr. Chakir El Homrani. When he wants to. The Counselor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families ( Chakir El Homrani Lesfar ) Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, get started. First, we do a lawful exercise – each does as you want –: nothing is deserved, it's all guilt. It's an exercise a little... easy. In a multifactorial scener, placing "things is deserved, it's all guilt, in the end I think taking a little bit... doubting the intelligence of citizens and citizens, they are aware that not all factors are in your hands and that the scener is multifactorial. I make a statement to the totality around the first element of the speech; I think I have to do it. Just as I make a clear approach to it: you have defended an absolutely liberal speech about the economic and labour relations and the world of work. I'm telling you now that we don't share this view; it's already, it's nothing, but it's different visions: you defend an ultra liberalism, I don't defend it. I think these two elements are important at the time of planting. Even so, it has come to the point that the Catalan economy is dependent on the export sector. No, this is one of the strong points of the Catalan economy. This also means that there may be risks, but it is one of the strong points, the ability to export and the ability to generate export policy, benefits and export consumption in a globalized economy. And I think we have to take this into account. From here, he gave me a rest around this export logic, tourism..., he couldn't help but – I suppose it's inevitable – make a reference to a time of state, make a reference to the seditious... It's liquid politics; it's liquid politics that makes us explain that Bolivia doesn't have a time of state, but the army has invited a president to leave and that there is a time of state here. It's liquid politics, it's nothing, it's part of what we find every day. This defense of liberalism I think after..., I suppose it's an Iberian liberalism, and after the elections and the results of the elections I don't know if it's the answer that citizenry wants, Catalonia or the Spanish State, but they have every right to defend it. He gave me a glimpse of how the economy is, but explaining all the good that is not deserved and all the bad things that are going on are yours. Well, I'll tell you, we're in a context of deceleration, yes; the conjunction of Western economies are in that context. In the third quarter of 2019 Catalan GDP has increased by 0.4 inter-quarterly, and this is an element of deceleration. It is true to place it that even 2018 was more accused than 2019, curiously; 2019_has had a more stable trend. Set it up: in the area of services it is maintained with a robust growth; in the area of construction it has been encouraged, the pace has gone from a 4.4 to a 3.4, and in the industrial sector we have an alarm. I have said this publicly, I have said this on many occasions: we have – and this sees from the strength of the Catalan export system – an alarm. And in the tourism indicators we are positive, now we are positive, and even from a perspective around a debate in this society, which is: tourism must be sustainable. And I think that the most positive indicator around this debate that citizens and citizens have that tourism must be sustainable, that it cannot be a country that is only touristic, the most important, the most important indicator is that the expense of foreign tourism grows in an annual 4.3_per_cent at the end of August. In change, the percentage of foreign tourists who have arrived is 0.4_per_cent more. I think it's a good sign around an element that asks us for citizenship, that's the reflection on the tourist model and what tourist model we have. And yes, Catalonia is an open economy – it is an open economy. The 25,1_percent of exports made by the Spanish State makes them Catalonia. The 33,3_percent of the companies regularly exporting to the State are in Catalonia. Inflation has remained moderate; this has helped. But as soon as there's started to be a deceleration and we have a normal job_mark that's not protective... And I'll remember that especially around what I've been told about regulatory expedients, which have a reason, and the most clear reason is that in the Spanish State – and, unfortunately, also in Catalonia, because the standard labour market, the mark is state competence – it's free to close and it's free to make a regulatory expedient, which does not pass to other countries of the European Union mark. And that weakens us around this situation. Okay, we're in this element. From here on out, what are we doing and how do we work around what is the situation of work and the situation of the labour market? You've introduced me to the collection. In the young, he has already said of bonuses to firsts: "Data are better than state, but worse than Europeans. He said so, in young people he said that data is better than states and worse than Europeans; I mean, I listened to him, I do this exercise to listen to him. And, yes, and we've reduced the attic, and so much. And the slowing down of the ability to reduce the time we've experienced in the last quarter, yes; also because of a question you didn't say, that it's the growth of the active population. When the universe grows and the universe grows in such a great way, it decreases the ability to place people out of the dark. Why? Because we've activated a lot of people. And I think that in this situation it has to be said, because the job creation has been very powerful, and what has to be accelerated is the ability to take people out of the dark, because we've incorporated a lot of people into the activity, and I think that's a lot of good news. Just like that's a lot of good news about data around the long-lived twilight. The long-lasting weather has decreased a barbarity, since the fourth quarter of 2013 it is in continuous year-on-year reduction. We're in 2019 and that doesn't make us happy, because while there are 155,300 people in length of time we wouldn't be happy; it's clear that we wouldn't be happy, but we are: since the second quarter of 2009 there wasn't such a low number of people. Since the fourth quarter of 2013, it has been steadily falling, and this is also worthy of other things, which are active employment policies, and how we have focused on the most vulnerable collectivities, and one of the most vulnerable collectivities are the long-lived. And we'll keep doing it, we'll keep doing it because we think it's the job we have to do – that it's the job we have to do. With regard to these active employment policies, which ultimately represent, in terms of employment policies, EUR 737_million, with measures to stimulate and promote employment and economic development; EUR 330, through the SOC; EUR 406, in occupational programmes, with support for the insertion of the labour market, with programmes for people with disabilities, EUR 105_million, or with EUR 20_million – which for us are also important – in promoting the social economy, self-employment and self-employment, they are the measures that must enable us to accompany. And then it wasn't positive – and that's what I'm saying. The sectoral conference, to be held in April, this year was held on 31 July, which does not help. It's that when you criticize us by inaction, you criticize us by skills that you don't want us to have – because we ask them, but we don't have them, unfortunately – you criticize us for that, but you even forget to criticize other skills. What is one of the elements that clearly spreads the economy of this country? The price of energy. The price of energy is one of the key elements; if you are dedicated to talking to entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs will say so. Head word. Even so, they accept that it is a discriminatory model at the level of the State, because there are differences across territories. So, no word. On the Mediterranean corridor, cape parula; on those who have remained competent, cape parula, even though they have their support. I'm suddenly able to do that. And then he told me about professional training. And so, as long as we bet on dual vocational training and it's growing, again this year, and this year it has grown and will continue to grow, and we're working around the dual vocational training model that has to be there in this country. And we've been able to agree on this model with economic agents, employers and social workers, which is the way we understand we have to do it, with concertation skills. And dual vocational training in Catalonia will not be the same as German. And I was lucky enough to be in Germany to know vocational training – and not because of political issues, but because of professional issues – and it will be very different, and as long as it will be very different. Just like it's different from French, just like it's different from finesse. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , because they adapt to the situations of each country, to the context of each country. And here, the vast majority of our economic fabric is micro- and small business. And then, to the answer, I'll answer you about the regulation dispatchers, about the mechanisms that we're using...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.295.0	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.296.0	...to give support to these situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.297.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer is the return, again, of the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.298.0	Counselor, we're the opposition. I understand that something we have to criticize, when, moreover, there are things as obvious as what we are here, today, talking about, so, obviously, our position will not be adular; for this reason there are other groups in the chamber that already do so with much insistence. What we do is to manifest the things that are likely to be better and to advance towards a better society. And this is our pocket, it won't take it away from me. With regard to what you have commented, obviously, we pose the manifest things, the faults. You spoke about the export sector. The export sector is very important, I have already told you that it was very important, and it turns out that the latest developments are particularly affecting the export sector. The exporting sector is complaining that the roadblocks make that, for example, at SEAT, there are some delays, a stop of production that can put in danger the production and export of many units to foreign countries. All of these effects are produced not from an economic situation that comes from outside or from within, but from political actions that the Government is taking away and, in a way, giving it its support. And that's what we have as a manifesto. A sector that is especially important for our economy is affected in a very important way by political actions of the Government, and this we need to make manifest. He won't tell me I can't tell him, because it's not what I'm saying, they're telling the companies, I'm not. This morning the president of the SEAT went out and warned that the image of Catalonia will have important economic consequences – I do not say this – that it does not help the investor to 'facilitate the idea to bet for Catalonia. I didn't say that. It's clear, long-term vision, and stable. This very week, four investment funds – Permira, CVC, Apollo and Fidelity – have cancelled their road shows to bring potential investors here in Catalonia, and all this is potential growth that we have ceased to have. And that's what I was talking about. It is likely that the data we are enjoying now are the product of long-standing business decisions and that they continue, obviously, to be maintained, because companies do not cease to exist at a certain time; they must be maintained, because only the losses are much more important. Therefore, there is a reversal of maintenance, but the productive reversal..., this is over. Bayer, today... I'm sorry, these last few days he's introduced an ERE here in Catalonia, and, now, he's introduced the investments he's going to make in Spain. Bayer presents an expansion of the 30_per_cent of its plant in Madrid, will allocate 23_millions for all the plants it has in Spain ; 4_millions_i_mig will come here to Catalonia, yes, indeed, but to maintain. It turns out that where the R & D plant will be set will be in Alcalá de Henares, that it will invest 36_million euros and while here we make an ERE there will create work places. The truth is that these are the decisions that affect the productive economy and the future, in the long term, tomorrow, the future of our children. And with respect to vocational training, the truth is that all of your good wishes, which I do not doubt you have, happen to pass away when, at the time of putting into practice these wishes, we find ourselves with the case of the professional training of the center of Martorell, a center that makes years that are standing, that there are some facilities that are getting upset and that, one year more, in order not to listen to the sector, because the information there is that the councilor or the councillor has not listened to the sector, that prefers a location or a more public-private finance, a closer collaboration, and that the places of work do not continue to do what the SOC wants, but actually serves people in the field. It's these things I want to say to her. I know there are things that work well, I know, but it seems to me that our job is to detect and tell him, exactly, the things that could go better and that should go better if I don't have the head in other things. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.299.0	Thank you, Congressman. To do the second line is the counselor's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.300.0	I'd miss more than you can criticize what you want! I'm asking him – and he's the only one asking him – is a point of rigour around some criticisms, as if I'm even sure who's criticizing them. And then what I quote is that we have different views, but not only about the reality of this country and our right to have a collection project and to gain it in a democratic way, but we have different views about the economic system, about the labour market system. And I'm saying that because I think it's important that we find it. We have different sights and from here we argue, don't we? I also remind you of a question: the toughest editorial to the politics that his party has made around the situation in Catalonia is the editorial of the Financial Times; it is the toughest editorial that has been read and written about the politics that the Ciutadan Party has made respecting the situation in Catalonia, and it is an economic diary, and it has made a hard – very hard – editorial, make it also see, be aware, also, that they have a point of responsibility. Be aware that you have wanted to play a certain game.... And now you're going to put me five thousand businesses– we're going to be different, huh? , we have gone from three thousand to five thousand –, changes of its social, the conversion into movement, now, continue to represent more than 33 percent of the export capacity of the Spanish State, curiously. And you're talking to me about the regulatory dispatches, and I'm telling you, where is he? We do not have industrial policy from the workplace because the ability that is regulated has not been turned – and you have defended this model –, they have defended that there is no administrative authority of the regulators, they have defended it, like all the policies and policies of the boards, they have defended it. And what does that mean? That the regulatory expedients that have entered the industrial sector for these last few months, you know for what reason they are? For organizational reasons, they are not for economic reasons. Profitable plants, plants that have high levels of productivity, and that's what I explained. In a context where everyone is decelerating and everyone is taking him home, we have a work environment that doesn't protect any sense. And every regulatory expedient that is made, by reason of organizational or productive motius, and not economic motius, should fall into the consciousness of those who defend from liberalism that there is no type of regulation on the labor market. And this is where we have different visions. If you cried when there was-there was an interprofessional minimum wage boost! , and I, as a counselor, ask that the European Social Charter is fulfilled, that the Spanish State has never completed it, and that the minimum wage is 60_percent of the average wage, because, if not, we do not address a reality that is also a woman and that you have not said, that it is that of poor workers and workers. Why? Because the market is out of order. And you, at times, in defense of a liberal policy and in defense, at times, that there is no regulation. No, it's that the problem is liberal politics, the problem is liberal politics. What's he doing? He's doing things like the last few years. We have grown in quotes, in quotes; we have grown in quotes and we have decreased in quotes. Why? Because the working conditions have become poorer. And this has to do with the labor market, a labor market that you, when you've been supporting the government of the state, that's who's got the skills... And I want them, the skills, and defense, we have different models, but you have given support to this deregulation. And what he's close to with the regulators, to be able to act on these, is that he's back to administrative authority. Why? To avoid situations in which there are no economic reasons that can be pulled forward. And that's also complicated to manage for anyone, because that also means being aware that when there's a reason... And that's what inspectors and labour inspectors do. When there are reasonable reasons you will have to authorize them, but it gives you this management ability. And it is in this sense that I say that we start from different models, from different looks; surely, with nuances, but different looks. And when he gave the price of energy... because it's key. Did you go to see the chemical companies in the Tarragona camp? What's the key theme? The energy price. And they're multinationals, and it's the energy price, but you give support to this model of oligopolis that's been shaking blood between themselves, which is only reversed by those who already have it. And that's why we have the highest electricity bill, the second highest in Europe. I mean, after all, when you talked about General Cable... and you're not talking about General Cable, you're talking about Prysmian, who's doing the regulatory expedition to be concrete. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , one of the elements is that there is no reversal in the renewal of the network. Why? Because the people don't have to pay for it. This is the economic model that leads us to these weakened situations of our labor market and our economic model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.301.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[The Government's inquiry into male-female rapes]] [[300-00195/12]] Exhausted this point from the agenda, we now proceed to the split point, which is the government's inquiry into the masculinist rapes of the Republican Parliamentary Group. Mrs Jenn Díaz has the word to explain the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.302.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, well, I come to talk about male-based rapes, but we have always understood that male-based violence finds its peak of cruelty, perversity and injustice in feminicide, but on a few days we return to a November 25th, and what we would like, the Republican Group, is not to focus solely on feminicide; why is it true that you have – as I said, huh? – that it has its point of cruelty, but when we think about male violence, it is impossible not to simplify it to its maximum expression, that it is the murder of women in the hands of men; but it goes further, because it is a social, cultural, economic construction and, ultimately, it is a structural construction. And the question we're asking you today, counselor, speaks precisely of all those nuances and the intersection of violence and gender, which is all there is to it. During the celebration of the Parliament of the Dones, a few months ago, we were able to see a question that we already knew, and it is that the basis of social inequality, is donated for the genere. That in addition to other discriminations, already of class or origin, this discrimination, this social inequality, is accentuated. Thus, genere summated with racism; or genere and social class, or genere and adult centerism; or genere and capacitism, are the weak combination of society. That is why today we are talking about male-based violence; or better yet, just as we are talking about "feminisms, we are also pluralizing, "male-based rapes, because we can talk directly about guaranteeing the human rights of women, simply this: human rights of women, which is what we dealt with in the Women's Parliament in July. As I said, male violence has various forms and one of them is institutional violence. In fact, now that we have the law against male violence, one of the consensus of the Parliament of Women and of all entities working for equality in our country..., they have a consensus, that this law must be updated in order to introduce institutional violence. And I would like to speak, in this question, of how institutional violence ends up perpetuating and provoking all the symbolic, cultural, economic and social discriminations that we suffer from women, because they are women. I speak – and it seems to me that this is not the first time we talk about it and that it will not be the last time we talk about it – for example, the Foreign Law. Like a racist law, which denies even the right to vote, now that we come from an electoral contest, and therefore, denying that vote, nullifies the ability to decide the future, ends up punishing the migrant women twice. To put just one example of the Foreign Law, this racist state law, in this Parliament, a few months ago, we voted and approved that, in this Parliament, what we call the deputies and the deputies is that we see that the Foreign Law unprotects the migrated women; everyone, but above all the migrated women, and I start to move them through the màfies. And many of them end up being part of the very sad chain of exploitation and the trafficking of people for sexual purposes. But it's not the only law... and now there's a precord, is there? , and it seems that there will be government in Spain, and that they tell us that it will be progressive, it is not the only law, foreign, this racist law, which we will talk about in this inquiry, because we can also talk about the labor reform. Why are we talking about labour reform, the law of mordassa, housing policies, or foreign policies, in an inquiry that talks about masculinist rapes? Precisely, because we are talking about structural violence, and it is one of the great setbacks of the Spanish State, which does not want to address and govern the government, and now we see, in these points of the precord, that, again, labor reform, bite, housing or foreign policy do not form part of the priorities of this government, supposedly progressive. In this labour reform, we could start by talking about the wage gap, which fortunately we have already deepened in society in this concept, we have normalized. And I take this opportunity to say that, a few days ago, European women, for the sake of being women and for this salary, we will work for free a few days ago until the end of the year, respect the men, according to the salary, to make the same pocket. But not just with the wage bracket, because the symbolic discrimination I was talking about a while ago, it's so much more important. And symbolic rape, which ends up feeling more quickly an explicit rape in the day-to-day of working women, and that means mental, curative, maternity, paternalism, sexism, assimilation, precariousness, twilight, feminization of the poor... And the list, counselor, you know, it's forever. And we're talking about labor reform, and we're talking about the Foreign Law, and we're talking about housing policies, and we're talking about the biting law, precisely, because this intersection, which is one of the themes..., about the future challenges of the feminisms of this country, which they're showing us is that, as I say, more social discrimination than the kind that follows is implacable. And as we'll have two weeks on November 25 and talk about male-based violence, we don't want to focus, even though it's one of the toughest and cruelest rapes, which is feminicide, we don't want to put up with only feminicide; we want to go a little bit further. But we cannot forget the role of justice in male violence, another of these intersections, which go beyond femicide and explicit violence, murder and all the women who have died in the hands of their peers or men. Once and for all, once and for all, let's see how the victimology of male violence is not taken into account. It seems to Spain's justice that it is not interested to hear the motius that a woman undertakes to save her life instead of saving honor; I speak of honor, because it also forms part of one of these structural rapes, one of these male, cultural and social rapes. Because the desire, and because our bodies are also political objects of those who want us home, in silence and without the ability to decide on any aspect of our life, I speak of honor. That we prefer to save life before honor; because that also goes from how social constructions tell us that they are our bodies and how they can use them. Those who want us – as I said – without the power of decision, without the capacity to make decisions in our lives, are those who, thanks to them there is a great general irresponsibility: they have put a captivated red to the Congress of Deputies, because they enter all this race of people who are an atemptation against human rights, but also against the human rights of women. Those who banalize, whiten and give to the extreme right are the enemy of women, they are the enemy of equality, of feminism, but they are all of us, of all anti-fessists. And then we'll let them know. Counselor, to the turn of reply I assume that you have data on this institutional violence, on this structural violence, on labor reform, more explicitly. On the second word, we'll talk about sexual violence and also how the fact of bleaching fascism is a public danger to all of us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.303.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It has the word now, to answer the inquiry, the advisor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.304.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, MPs, MPs, MPs Díaz, is always complicated, because when you talk about male violence, you are aware that you are talking about one of the toughest realities, one of the most transversal realities, because in the same way that you explained very clearly that there is an intersection, that you are responsible for a labour market that is male, that you are responsible for a social structure that is male, we are also aware, that we are men, that masculinism is not ethnic, has not been, has not had any type of social class, is, basically, an evil masculinity in all spheres of life. And that always makes us look at the smallest part of the look that we can look at, the one that makes us aware of how it can be that 2019 a society like ours still has these levels of masculinist rapes, which start from inequalities that generate discrimination. And these discriminations generate more inequality and it's an absolutely pernicious wheel, that stopping it is very complicated. And I think it makes us all aware of this reality that we have to approach and that we have to approach in a much braver way. And also, those things that we're legitimizing in the same system. You were talking about the work environment: the work environment I think is very clear, it's very clear how we have a world of work that occupationally secretes women, and that explains the wage gap; it's occupational segregation. Which, at a time, starts from a vision that doesn't value the most feminized jobs. That, at a time – together, in some cases – doubles situations of discrimination, as in the case of the work of cures, one has the face of a woman, the face of a woman migrated, the face of a woman migrated in a situation of vulnerability, generated by a foreign law which it does is to place her in a situation of absolute vulnerability, which makes her the reserve army of that environment, in which it is absolutely necessary to work, but from an absolutely precarious perspective. And together... all possible elements of precariousness. As, at times, you have to the same foreign law, which ends up generating discrimination, is designed to generate even more discrimination because of being a woman, because of the social responsibilities associated with healing work, which we still have feminists, and it ends up generating that the gain surrounding family reunification the patient the women. And to women regrouped familiarly, they are given a residence permit and not a work permit. And then, you have to have a job offer of one year's duration per full day so you can have an initial work permit. And this, where's the door? As for the submerged economy, this submerged economy of cures, which is an element on which we end up basing our economy; because that is so, in the end, it is the same system that ends up feeding it back. And if you are aware, that in the first small studies that have come around, for example, sexual assimilation and sexual rapes in the realm of cures – the first studies, with very little universe, however – show that more than 40_percent of the women working at the cure have suffered sexual rape. More than 40_per_cent, for whom he hires them, even though it is irregular, but sometimes, for the person they heal. And when I feel this, and you're not aware, of this situation, I'm taking everything that's there. Even so – before we were discussing it – in this time, which is absolutely dangerous, of poor workers and workers..., in this too. Between men, a 10.5_per_cent; between women, a 13.1_per_cent. The rate of atur, higher: 11.5 respects 10.3. The rate of activity, in change, higher than that of men than that of women. Why? Because the submerged economy also forms part of the system of male repression, which we end up placing in the system. When it's not that, occupational segregation; what did we explain: how do we secrete? Occupancyally, therefore, basically. How can you donate a 23.3_per_cent salary in a country where there is collective bargaining that, in principle, ensures that there is the same salary for the same category? Because there is occupational segregation; because certainly categories, do not offer themselves to women. Material element: part-time work. More than 50_percent of women hired part-time, they are not by their own volition, but because they do not find full-time work. The land stuck and the glass floor, what we've been talking about so many times. And yet, the wage rate in the last year has fallen by 0.4_per_cent. Reflection: at 0.4_per_cent, plus 0.4_per_cent, we will triage decades to end the wage gap. Another very little known area, which we have to explain a lot more, which is sexual work placement: 20,300 women, with names and surnames, have suffered sexual work placement, and this is not visible; from emails with messages to some situations of intent to rape or rape directly. This is the reality of our day-to-day work market. And either we're much more rigorous about sexual and sex settlement protocols in the workplace, or we won't get out of it. Either we're much more rigorous in equality plans to fight the wage bracket, or we won't get out of it. Either we're tougher than the sea as a whole educated until we're big, or we won't get out of it. Or we are much more rigorous as society at the time of explaining to what we don't like... because the first element is to visualize, and the sexual assimilation to work is an invisible element, and, in the end, as you say, feminicides are the most visual element, the hardest, but we can't store all the rest of the elements of inequality, of economic capital, of social capital, of relational capital, of cultural capital, that beat the gifts for the sun made of being gifts. And if there are other elements, such as different origins, such as different abilities, the degrees of discrimination are higher and this leads to more inequality, and more inequality to more discrimination. And we're on this wheel that doesn't end. That's why it's also key to generate alliances; that's why it's also key to be able to generate those alliances from a very wide view. In this work I think we have to be all there, beyond many differences. The Women's Parliament was a very concrete example of a generation of alliances, but we need more. In the workplace, we need a clear alliance with economic and social agents. And this alliance we have been working on in the last few days with the approval of the Guide for the application of equal pay between men and women. Alliances in all spheres; alliances also in the realm of healing, of the situation of women working in healing. Introduce perspective into all senses. We have done an exercise that may be valued little, but that is absolutely necessary, that is to train all the counsellors and job guides in the perspective of gender and with the perspective of women who have suffered male violence or sexual assault, for their attention to the offices of work. It is to incorporate this perspective into everything, cross-sectionally, if not, we will not get out of it; in a clear – clear way. Also in the work inspection; we have formed specific teams of inspectors and inspectors in relation to situations of equal discrimination in the field of work, which is much more complex to demonstrate, which requires a very specific training, but which is the way in which we have to go introducing this perspective into all spheres, into any of the spheres of our responsibility, if not, we will not get out of it and keep looking at each other in the dark and in the dark before this reality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.305.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply has now the word, again, MP Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.306.0	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, Counselor. As I said, our intention is to talk about masculinist rapes and to do so means assuming that femicide is sustained by other masculinist rapes, perhaps less sorollos, but not less important. And one of these fights for the human rights of women is specifically the one that deals with sexual rape. Male rape works very differently socially than other rapes because we end up holding the victim responsible, which is one of the great perversions of male violence, of how we socialize male violence. And I take this opportunity to send all our support to the 14-year-old girl – but I say it well, my child – ours..., a company of Manresa who suffered a group rape. And again we talk about institutional violence, about male violence in the field of justice, and again we remember, we talk about the votes that we have made in this Parliament, that we voted and we approved that silence or inaction does not mean consent, and that when we talk about consent, today, we cannot do anything else, despite the fact that there is someone who believes that "it is only stupid, we cannot do anything but be redundant and talk about active consent, and talk about desire, and go further and talk about pleasure, and not just resignation before the end. And no, for us, there's no attenuating for rapists. Also to the bride of Manresa, yes, we also believe her as our companion of Pamplona. And say the feeling – and this fits with this institutional violence in the field of justice – that did not answer the victim's witnesses, and I quote, "not because we feel that the victim's statement is not true, but because, for what it did after the media, he knows nothing about his own perception. And here we would ask, if you please, expert, anything but expert; know well the victimology and how post-traumatic shock works after a rape, after an assault, after settlement. Because they only know this victimology and feel aware of who the consequences are and who is the answer of a woman before a group rape or sexual assault, who is, in the way that it is, the arrangement that is, in the way that it is, only know this victimology to be able to deal with masclistic rapes, which, as we say throughout the inquiry, is a structural and not concrete issue. And I agree with you that we may need to refocus all this focus on structural violence, and male violence, and how we socialize, well before, in prevention, which is from schools. And, counselor, finally, male violence in all its forms not only worries us, but it goes beyond that, it angers us, it makes us angry, it negates us. And in two weeks we'll go back and say, there, here, to the institutions, to the streets, to the streets, that we're together, that we don't want to be heroes, but we need public spaces that keep us safe. November 25th, yes, against male violence, of course. And it's true that male violence is more acute, that the rape of murder is based on other rapes that may be more daily and possibly more normal, but it's against all of them. And it's not just against femicide. We'll fight every day to get the women to viscose in full freedom. And because women are in full freedom, we need to be more alert than ever. And we said it today, in full 21st century, to 2019, we said it today, that we must be more alert than ever, and not repeat the historical mistakes of modern societies. We'll have memory, and with memory we voted down. The fascism has been bleached, passed through the institutions, uncomplicated, from the diumenge. Fascism is much more than fascism, because it's also racist, because it's also homophobic, because it's also masculist. But, in the same way, feminism will fight for this fascism. And like his companion Isaac Rosa, who is very necessary to us these past days, to fascism does not stop democracy, nor the Constitution, nor the European Union, to fascism not to the core of all this, to fight us. And the women there are, before fascism, the anti-fessistic women there, because we've always been there. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.307.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To close the point has the word the counselor again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.308.0	The first thing we all have to do, but especially everyone, is to become aware of our responsibility. It's an absolutely necessary exercise. Also from the realm of... [[Widow's remorse.]] What? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Time, Vice President. Don't worry, I won't be long, will I? [[Rialles.]] But... don't worry. I'll stay for 20 seconds. What I say to you, the first thing we have to do is to take absolute account of our responsibilities, that we are part of the system, and especially in the institutional sphere, where we sometimes do not do the whole process of accompanying the brave woman that is able to denounce. And then, if we don't go with the same institutions, we have a problem: we don't do all this exercise that's key at the time of placing one of the toughest aspects of having suffered a situation of violence, of settlement, that's accompanying, that's taking the courage to report and it's feeling that there are people who doubt your word. I think in this sense we have a lot of homework to do. And as you said, honourable Member, one of the aspects is also to take up knowledge, to the expert, to these multidisciplinary teams which are able to give answers, together with individual as well as collective, to the women who have suffered from this situation. That's why – since Parliament, on many occasions it's asked; the scale comes out of the call – it expands from the eight SIes that have..., four more, with the next call, we'll expand it even more around the bidding that we have, with multidisciplinary teams to give response to these situations. In the same way that we have a pending assignment, and with the restructuring that we have done today, which was approved today, from the department, we have created a specific sub-direction of struggle against male violence, in the area of the Secretariat of Equality, to have an overall view of all the services we give in this area from the department: from emergency services to women in a situation of male violence; that it supervises the management of resources, programs and services to approach, recovery and repair of victims, which I believe is important; a specific sub-direction for the design and implementation of actions, for the detection and prevention of these violations. And we have to go day after day, in all spheres. We need specialized inspectors and labour inspectors. We need the guidance and guidance of the SOC to have this knowledge. We need more multidisciplinary spaces for individual and collective follow-up. We need more political leadership. And especially we need more social leadership. Because in the end the whitewash that is made of any kind of violence, but especially of masculinist rapes, is a way to legitimize this violence. And I think we also need to be brave at the time of facing any reality. That's why we're also incorporating and we've generated programs to take into account all the diversity around the situations of women who suffer from this violence and children who suffer from this violence. That's why we've also created a new program to fight female genital mutilation, which is an aberrant form of male violence. And working specifically and very clearly with parents and mothers, specifically. Just as we have incorporated into this program also a struggle against forced marriages, which is another form of male violence. Just as we will continue to work with the representatives of the entities of migrant women working in the field of cures, for an element that is key and that the return to repeat: in the first studies, more than 40_percent of women working in cures, at the homes of our home, have suffered assimilation and sexual violence. It's a spherical fact. And we need to continue working around this element, and especially around another element that is key and that also forms part of the struggle against ultra-threat and fascism, that is to clearly accept that male violence has no age, no class, no age, has a poorly understood masculinity, and is certainly the most important challenge we have as men and as society, this poorly understood masculinity. Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.309.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the rise of ultra-rights to Europe and the impact of the Spanish State's repressive drift on European construction as a democratic community of shared rights]] [[300-00196/12]] The next item is the question to the Government about the rise of ultra-rights to Europe and the impact of the Spanish State's repressive drift on European construction as a democratic community of shared rights presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. To expose the inquiry has the words of the deputy Adriana Delgado.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.310.0	Thank you, Vice President. Welcome..., dear Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament – welcome, it is well that we are – counselors... Well, diumenge, the extreme right, the explicit Francoism, the uncomplicated fascism gained fifty-two Members and was converted into the third force of the Spanish Congress. Catalonia resisted the wave of fascism. While in the Spanish State Vox was the third force, in Catalonia it was the penultimate, only in front of Ciutadans. We are also concerned about the strength of the ultra-threat at European level. At the last European elections, this extreme right continued its slow erosion of European democracy: France, Italy, Hungary. In the Spanish State, he saw the danger of the extreme right, with the dependence of the Andalus Government, the PP and the City, with Vox, his break-in to the Congress with twenty-four escapes, with the accusations of Ortega Smith to the Supreme Court with the cognition of the prosecution and the State Advocate. Many denied our concerns. They tell us that the Spanish State was the exception to Europe and that the only totalitarians are us, independence, which has always been democratic, inclusive and open to everyone. Independence, which the State has criminalized, sending the police to pick up our young people and start our leaders. Independence, which they accused of being Salvini's friend, while this one congratulated Vox without any type of complex. Faced with a legitimate and democratic proposal that won votes and supported elections, the State has only opted for repression. Since October 1, 2017, in Catalonia, elections have not been held with full democratic guarantees, a perversion of democracy that has reached the paroxysm last week: the electoral interference I am commenting on against independence, therefore, culminated when the Supreme Court and the Electoral Board agreed to disable Oriol Junqueras with no legal basis and also to create citizens with more or fewer rights, depending on who votes. But, despite the repression, they couldn't stop the republican cave having all of Catalonia. The fight for repression has also plagued the European institutions. The head of the Supreme Court – because there is no other way to describe it –, preventing Vice President Oriol Junqueras from completing with the formalities to access his MEP's minutes, claiming that President Carles Puigdemont and Councillor Toni Comín annexed to Madrid to swear the Constitution and preventing Junqueras from coming out of prison, precisely, to do so. The lack of respect for the European institutions that supposes that the Supreme Court has dictated judgment before knowing if it had the prerogative to judge Junqueras. The barroera played to give to hear that he was disabled and, two weeks later, explain that this disqualification is suspended until the answer of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and, meanwhile, there are citizens who see their votes lost and their right, obviously, to vote. But, surprise – perhaps not expected – today, the General Counsel of the Court of Justice of the European Union has recognised Junqueras as an MEP, because he considers that this condition only depends on the voters' vote and not on the fact that he swears the Constitution and, consequently, he also had immunity when he was wrongfully sentenced. But while, as I said, votes in the European Parliament have been lost, without the votes of Junqueras, Puigdemont and Comín. The instrumentation of the Spanish State of the European institutions is a serious threat to the construction of a democratic Europe, of shared rights and freedoms. The Spanish State can secrete the European institutions, but they will only make them weaker before the fascism that comes back, and our companion Jenn Díaz was commenting on it a while ago. What is the moral authority of European foreign policy when Chinese propaganda agencies use images of charges in Barcelona to justify their own repression? How can the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy promote rights and freedom of speech, if he himself violates the presumption of innocence by publishing police envoys? I'm going back to the hygienist. Then we saw who the consequences of repression are. When the state makes repression its policy, the repression party grows. When the State makes the engagement of civil and political leaders, they earn more money than they want us all to do. When the State denies political solutions to political conflicts, they win those who do not want to do politics, but suppress it. When the State retails civil and political rights in the name of the unitary nation, fascism advances. The politicians Steven Levitsky and Daniel Ziblatt explain to us how democracies die that when democratic parties avoid normalizing the extreme right, they refuse to make alliances with them or reject to push policies that legitimize them, buying part of their speech, for example, they can help and defeat the extreme right. However, when it is time for their votes to form government, to hold majorities, to understand part of their speech and also to give up legitimate spaces – such as sharing demonstrations – the extreme right grows and strengthens. So, they're not so much to alienate the results of Vox, diumenge. Abascal could summarise his programme for Catalonia in the speech of the 3rd October king, and he could also appreciate the campaign that has set them up Grande-Marlaska and its police deployment, which was merely seeking to distort the reality to create a sense of alarmism and exceptionality. It is to be hoped that fascism will advance when the government of the impassive Roman PSOE, when the Madrid Assembly approves the illegalization of independent parties and wants to prosecute us criminally, when the members of the Bureau defend that in this Parliament it is possible to speak of everything. The Spanish State has been legitimizing Vox's policy for years, as it expels and exploits democrats, such as President Forcadell and the rest of the political prisoners and reprisals of Catalan republicanism. We find ourselves in a crux of Europe: defending democratic rights and freedoms or playing the game on the extreme right. Some have already sorted, the PSOE is still in time to rectify and we hope you do. Meanwhile, I need to get old so that the repression of the Spanish State does not further damage the European project. Despite the shortcomings, it is the most advanced country to guarantee the rights and freedoms that have been detailing the abuses of the states. But these perils when these citizens' votes are lost, when the European Commission's spokesman is shown to be indifferent before Vox's rise from the elections; when the Supreme Court makes master classes of authoritarian policies about how to suppress the European representation of dissident politicians; when the high representative of foreign policy makes comments about the dead in the Balkans, which are more threatening than not to reflect. For these reasons, counselor, to end, a pre-requisite rather than a question: we ask you not to cease your activity representing Catalonia in the world and denouncing the perverse effects of the repression of the Spanish State in Europe. Despite the legal threats, the abuse of resources with preventive suspension, espionage, diplomatic pressures, continue with determination working from compromise with democracy and fundamental rights, and with a Europe different from guaranteeing them, because there is democracy and freedom for us, which is not a small thing. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.311.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Alfred Bosch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.312.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Delgado, I can also assure you, in response to your prec, that this humble servant of the Government of Catalonia and of the Catalan society, and of the country in general, will not fail to do the work that has been done so far, in defence of the ethics and values that underpin the Europe we want. This Europe that emerges from two great catastrophes, from the two world wars, with the conviction that modern Europe must be founded on the pau, on democracy, on dialogue and on human rights. Therefore, we are in this, we are with this Europe. Today, precisely, the Government of Catalonia has approved the Pla Europe, which among many other things makes a defense clinging to this modern Europe, this Europe of pau, democracy and rights that we want to strengthen and that we want to improve in that which, doubtless, is still much better. Therefore, here, we make it very clear that this work will continue and that, indeed, one of the main problems for this Europe of rights and democracy is the violation of democracy, its wisdom and the violation of fundamental rights that, in its extreme case, leads us to ultra-rights and to situations that threaten many of these values and many of these fundamental rights. Therefore, here, the Government of Catalonia has a clear position and you will always find us, all of Europe and all of the world, with the defense of democracy, pau and the fundamental rights. The last few months, in relation to the conflict that the powers of the State, in Spain, have with Catalonia, we have seen an attitude every time more agrier and more vengeful on the part of the Spanish institutions, that is, the powers of the State. We have seen this, including the Spanish Government, and above all during a very tough election campaign, which we understand that many of the things that have come up and made democratic and justice throng across Europe. Highlighted examples, the Spanish Government has dedicated itself, has dedicated all efforts, or according to admits the Spanish Minister of Foreign Affairs, a_third of his time and of his inversion working to go against what is the necessary internationalization work, forced us from the department that I have the honour to lead, spying on the government delegations, spying on European citizens through public officials attached to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or Interior. Right now, the person responsible is also the imminent person responsible for the European Commission's foreign policy and, therefore, we find it particularly difficult that you have promoted all these actions. Edinburgh's very same consol, the Spanish consol in Edinburgh, which is not exactly a person with a political affiliation, said the other day, accused Minister Borrell of having forced him to take unconstitutional actions – according to this same consol said – in order to combat the legitimate aspirations of the Government of Catalonia representing Catalonia. Therefore, also add to it, sense of doubt, this shame of feeling, these hundred years of shame applied to nine political leaders, nine people who in their majority were part of the previous Government of the Generality, also were deputies in this Chamber, and who were condemned to give the view to the people of Catalonia, to all the people of Catalonia, so much so that they could vote that yes, like those who could vote that no to the proposal that is ugly; it could be said that yes, it could be said that no, and you may sometimes forget this little detail – not to say that no – because it could be done and a lot of people did it. So, listen, this is also a violation of the rights, the rights of voters, the rights of a whole people, and the legitimate right of representatives to represent the mandate entrusted to them. Moreover, the sentiments have come – and now we will also talk about Europe – and the sentiments have been dictated before the resolution to be taken by the Court of Justice of the European Union, and today, indeed, we have seen as the same general advocate of the European Union that Mr Junqueras, in concrete terms – and we will see the other cases – the case of Mr Junqueras is very clear and that he must be a Euro MP because he has been elected by the citizens of Europe and, therefore, he has all the right of the world to occupy his own escol and to enjoy the impunity enjoyed by the Euro MPs. Therefore, here too, on behalf of the Supreme Court, of the powers of the State, in its full extent, there is also a very clear lack of respect for the system of justice of the European Union, they anticipated a decision to come. Also the veto that the powers of the State have made, various, to the same European Parliament; yes, to the European Parliament, because three MEPs elected for more than two-million votes have not been able to occupy their seats, and that, indeed, has altered some votes. Therefore, it modifies even the whole political orientation that the citizens of Europe have given to the European Parliament, and therefore there has also been a very important violation of rights here. The essence of Europe, the values, the ethics of modern Europe that we want, are threatened to the Kingdom of Spain, with all these violations of rights. We also say that, with so much obsession with independence, huh? on behalf of the Spanish Government of Pedro Sánchez, there was an extremely irresponsible attitude, unworthy of a European leader, who believes in the European values of which we spoke. First, bring the citizens of the Kingdom of Spain to a few new elections because it did not want to sit on the dial table, and therefore challenging the principle of the dial, which is fundamental, is central to modern and current Europe. And that's how it went, huh? Then, too, in the campaign, so assuming the thesis of Spanish nationalism is tougher and even more so in some case of the extreme Spanish nationalist right, huh? I don't know what kind of election calculations it looks like they haven't just worked. The one that did – the one that did – is that you increase the ultrathreat in a dizzying way to the Spanish State. Mr. Sanchez has succeeded in this. And how did you get it? So approving, naturalizing, legitimizing the speech of repression, as you also said, MP, before. Because, listen, on the extreme right, you don't have to imitate it, you don't have to stand up; on the extreme right, you have to fight it: you have to fight fascism, you have to fight intolerance, you have to fight racism, you have to fight all these phenomena that threaten what are the positive values of today's Europe. And Pedro Sánchez, also, in the end, what has ended up, in a short time, in a few days or weeks, is to take out Franco del Valle de los Fallos' clothes and place her with fifty deputies to the Congress of Deputies. That's what Pedro Sánchez ended up getting. So, in this sense, there's a clear responsibility, huh? , of the president of the Spanish Government in functions for which it does not contain the extreme right; it is more, to feed it and to feed its principles and its vocation. That no one dares say – that no one dares say – that the extreme right grows in Spain because of Catalan independence [[remorse of the voice]] because that would be the same... that no one would ever say that, because that would be homologable... [[Widow's remorse.]] If they listen to me, they'll know what my argument is. [[the remorse of the voice persists]] If they listen to me and let me talk, because it's a very similar argument to saying that the rise of the extreme right is the fault of immigrants, or it's the fault of women who claim their rights, or of immigrants who claim their legitimate rights, or of the LGTBI collection, which also claims their legitimate rights. Citizens of Catalonia who want to vote claim a legitimate right, which is to rule on their future. This is not to be guilty of anything; it is to be guilty of those who want to prevent it and of those who are against this right of speech. So let no one say that this is the fault of Catalan independence. And if there's a senior official, then this senior official we have to look for him in the figure of the president of the Spanish government. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Even though I don't like them, that's it. We will never fail to fight for a fairer Europe, which respects the fundamental rights, which respects democracy, which respects the peace and all the values that bring us to today's Europe. And, listen, the best summary for what he does to Vox and the ultrathreat is what Rosalia has already done. So, here I leave it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-12-4201.313.0	Thank you, Counselor. You finish the interrogations, we suspend the plenary until tomorrow morning. Thank you very much.
