ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.1.0	Good morning, let's start the session. The list of questions to answer orally to the Ple is included in the folder of the same Ple. In accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning as the first item on the order of the day of this plenary session. Then I'll comment on some request for an orderly change of questions later. In any case, before I please welcome Congresswoman Raquel Sans, who is reinstated after her motherhood; well returned, Congresswoman [[applause]] Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, And also to comment that, according to Rule 95 of the Rules, the deputy Adriana Delgado, for reasons of motherhood, also delegate her vote to the deputy Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, and that the deputy Albert Batet, for reasons of fatherhood– and therefore we also take advantage to give her the honor [[applause]] –, he has delegated his vote, for this precise reason, for this plenary session in the deputy Eduard Pujol, deputy spokesman of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. Thus, the record that Oriol Junqueras and Raül Romeva also appointed Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, to exercise his parliamentary rights. The proposal, for another group, an alteration of the order of the day, according to the request made for the Government and the parliamentary groups, in accordance with Article 83.3 of the Rules, the proposal the following alteration of the order of the day, so that the question to the Government on the plan of government and political culture, which appears as point 6, can be substantiated after point 4, relating to the presentation of the report of the Synod of Greuges corresponding to 2018, that the record that will be substantiated tomorrow to the gods of the morning. So, too, the proposals that asked the government about the guarantee of freedom, effective equality and non-discrimination of LGBTI+ people, which is as at 11 am, is being substantiated tomorrow morning. And finally, that the motion subsequent to the question to the Government on the protection of children and adolescents at school, divided from the order of the day, is substantiated this half after point 3. Can this change, this alteration of the order of the day, be approved, by consent? [[Pause.]] Yeah? All right. So let's get to the questions. In this case, it was also called for an alteration... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't worry, Counselor? [[Pause.]] All right, then. Now tell me the counselor, who was the one who asked for this alteration, who didn't need it. So, we'll move on to the order we already had in mind to the questions... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Pardon me, it's true: not all the requests for changes affected the Health Counselor, there was also a question that affected the Education Counselor, which is specifically question 4, huh? ask that you can see at the end of the questions to the Government. Is there a problem? Can this change be approved for absenteeism? [[Pause.]] Therefore, Question No 4 would be seen or raised after Question 10, so the final question of oral questions to the Government. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Okay. [[Ask the Government about public employment policies for staff with intellectual disabilities in the workplace]] [[310-00130/12]] So let's go to the government's questions. The first is on public employment policies for staff with intellectual disabilities in the workplace. Formulated for the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, asks the question Mr Josep Maria Forné.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.2.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Puigneró, public office advisor, work is the activity that transforms the natural environment by taking mediums to cover the needs of humans. In our company, this activity covers two functions: entering renders that allow or should allow people to satisfy the needy and give felt to our lives. That's why all people have the right to work, to get coverage of needs and find a sense of existence. I said that everyone has right to work, whatever their abilities, intellectuals or physicists are. People with functional diversity or intellectual disability must also see their right. And, therefore, someone has to satisfy this right with a right, and this is the Administration. In Catalonia people with disabilities, according to us, today are 551,440, of whom they have an intellectual disability value 57,647. But even though you were a single person who exists with these characteristics, the right would continue to feel a duty for whom to lend it, that is, the Administration. For this reason, the legislation that obliges the compliment of this due, such as the LISMI, obliges entrepreneurs with fifty or more workers to reserve a 2_per_cent of work places for people with disabilities and other characteristics that the Administration does. In the same way, there are also special centers, which have to have a 70_per_cent template. There's work done and it's well oriented, but it's still to be done. The Administration also has an obligation not only to look for these conditions of the compliment of the deure, but also to look for work places. It is your responsibility to offer jobs to people with disabilities and to do it in exemplary form. Counselor Puigneró, people with intellectual disabilities can work in the Public Administration; there are temporary job offers that are given to meet the Generality's work offices. But administrations too can and must carry out restricted calls only for people with intellectual disabilities. From Junts to Catalunya we would like to know how the Government focuses, and in concrete terms its advice, public occupation for staff with intellectual disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.4.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, MPs, MPs. First of all, Congressman, let me tell you that my department, even though it doesn't seem like it, does social policies. In this sense tell him not only, huh? , getting the fiber optics is a great social policy of the country in the 21st century ; not only, also, promoting digital literacy programs for the citizen, and also for the workers, so to train them, it is doing social policies from this department ; not only reconciliation programs, and also the equality plans that we drive at the level of the Generality, it is doing social policies, but also in this sense from the department we drive initiatives for people with difficulties of labor integration. And in concrete terms, huh? , this specific program, which I must say is a pioneering program between the administrations of the State and of which I feel, therefore, especially proud, a program addressed to people with a minimum of 25_percent intellectual disability recognized, in order to be able, precisely, to access the work and work places in the General Administration with specific calls; this is very important, as you have very well highlighted. I think that's giving job placement opportunities to all people. In this sense, we're already going for the fifth call; now we're already staffed, huh? , more than one hundred workers with these disabilities, and our goal is, in view of 2020– therefore, the public employment offer that we launched in 2017 and that will come true during the next two years–, increase by one hundred and fifty places this offer. We have also set aside a work bag for these people, so that, at the moment when she is a vagina, so, in need of more workers, we already have them available. In any case, tell him that this is a government that thinks for all citizens, because he wants a country with job opportunities for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the creation of the Council of the Cultural Commonwealth]] [[310-00131/12]] The next question is about the creation of the Cultural Commonwealth. Asks the question, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Junts per Catalunya, the deputy Mònica Sales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.6.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, says Francesc Canosa, in his text« Culture, the present continuous, that a country is culture, and a culture is said to be fem; a culture is an explanation of life, and without life there is nothing, and without culture Catalonia is nothing. Culture is what is left, until today, until tomorrow. You know well, counselor, what these words mean, because years ago you say and do for culture, inexhaustibly. And, as you know, from the advice that encapsulates it has had to carry out various actions during these months in which it occupies the cargo. A few days ago, just on the 4th of March, a press round took a long time to present the Council of the Cultural Community of Catalonia, with the idea of continuing to drive culture as a priority eix, which allows us to work from the cooperation between administrations: the Generality of Catalonia, with the Department of Culture, and the four departments– Tarragona, Lleida, Girona and Barcelona. Organizing administrations that have skills in culture will be very useful to us, above all they understand that administrative divisions should never affect the results of actions due to end-use by administrations that share skills. The moment we live, marked by the usurpation of the Catalan institutions, take as inspiration the name of "the community has all the meaning, and do it more willingly to consolidate the tradition of self-government of Catalonia". Just yesterday was the end of the first meeting of this Council of the Cultural Community. And we would be interested to know, counsel, from Junts per Catalunya, some questions. What is the nature of this organ that combines the Department of Culture and the four parliaments? What are the functions to be achieved? What presuppositional impact will it have? Every time he gets together? Who are the first long-term actions agreed to yesterday? I'm sure he'll gladly and professionally answer what we're asking him, as he likes and professionally develops whatever task he's in charge of. And, if I may, I'll tell you, I'm doing a few lines of Josep Maria Capilla: I see her sleeping in sleepy hotels and I get the claus of not knowing which doors, but I do know, and I understand, because I know it's all a bridge to an origin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question has the word Culture Counsellor, Mrs. Laura Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.8.0	Thank you, President. President, Members..., Member, it is difficult to answer after these verses by Josep Maria Capilla and the presentation that he made of the trajectory that we have been aiming for from the end of the government. You know that this government has sought to work and work for, precisely, to establish a historical continuity with the process in which we were able to begin and recover this self-government. We have looked to iron out policies that engulf the policies of the Republican Generality, and in the matter of culture, specifically, thank you that you do..., allow me to explain what yesterday we materialized with this first meeting of the Council of the Cultural Commonwealth. We are just trying, from this creation of the Council of the Cultural Community, to recover what the Community tried to do between the years 1914 and 25, it is to say, to establish a policy with a real national perspective and to build and build infrastructures that were of this kind, with a national look. What's the use of this Commonwealth? To be more effective and to be more effective. And it will serve to work together the four members of Parliament and the Government of Catalonia in the field of culture, to make a cultural programming throughout the country, in the field of infrastructure and also with specific programming, which is solid, robust and which gives to the needs of all the citizens of the country. I ask you for the natural, the legal nature of this organ. And, indeed, in this sense, as an organ of cooperation, it has not assigned a legal function, it does not need a legal entity of its own, and therefore it has no associated assumption. It is a matter of making more effective the premise we have in the matter of culture to establish these links of coordinating efforts, optimizing resources and doing so in the matter of heritage, language, public reading system and the work of cultural associationism through the Ramon Muntaner Institute. That is why we will work together, working together, establishing these synergies that allow us to do our job in a more effective way, because it is our responsibility that does not affect the city these differences of administrative nature. Therefore, we can say that what we do and work from now on, because we are coordinating at the length of..., every four months there will be these meetings – and we did yesterday the first – will be and will be used to work republicanly, to do it together and to do it better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about actions related to endometriosis]] [[310-00135/12]] The next question is about actions related to endometriosis. The question is asked, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà, by Mrs Anna Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.10.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. It's two dives, March 8th, we went out another time on the street to claim the rights of women, a day of maximum sorority, to demand this longed-for equality of rights. Tanmateix, from the Republican Left we understand that this is not a one-day question, but it is simply a job to do every day of the year, with a 360-degree look. And this is a prec to your advice, a prec that we know will take very good grace: that every folder in the Health Counselorship bears the seal of this look of gender, because it's a different look, it's a look that looks in a different way, that looks in a different way and that finds solutions in a different way. These days we have seen many analytics, such as many times the disease, pathologies or symptomatology are studied from a masculinized perspective. We saw him attack the infarcts, as this after all has an impact on the mortality rate. We see, however, that projects such as the endometriosis care model have already been launched. We know it affects one of two people. He made us see that the pain may not be inherent in keeping the rule. He's made us know men and women as well that it's a disease; a disease that can affect a 30 or 50 percent, to lead to infertility for women who suffer from it. It is necessary to discover the feminist look in diseases that are of women, because really our anatomys are different. Here we'll get him to come up with our question. And we would ask him at what stage of execution is this model of attention to the endometriosis of Catalonia, which aims to pursue and what results are giving and what estimate of the future is being given. And let's hope this is the first step of a lot of work done in a genere key.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the words of the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.12.0	Thank you, President. President, counselors, counselors, deputies and deputies, let me begin by saying..., or add to the reflection that you respect the Day of the Dona, respect to include the perspective of gender in policies, in this case in policies of salvation. You know that it is one of the priorities and one of the pillars of this legislature that we have marked and that I have personally marked, also, as counsel, because a gender-neutral policy at the end is a blind policy to reality. This is what we have at these times. We do not want to be blind to a reality that exists in our country, we want to face it, and that is why we want to include the perspective of gender in the definition, in the deployment and in the evaluation, also, of our policies of salvation, with the cross-cuttingness that this calls for and requires of us. And with an important premise: that improving the salvation, in this case, of women is improving the salvation of all the people; it never goes to the detriment of the salvation of all the people. What have we done? So apart from insisting very much on the unit of full attention to sexual assaults, in the Health Survey of Catalonia this 2019 we have introduced the identity of non-binary genera, that is, not just the man-woman, but also the non-binary, into this question. Why? Because the new social concept of gender does not specifically imply an assignment to a specific gender of woman and man, because the different expressions of the gender must be included in our society and in our policies. Because, as it is well said, and I know how hard it is to be so radical with this phrase, a woman can have penises and a man can have vagina, because the problem is not in the body of people but in the eyes that look at them. That's it, and that's what we're trying to introduce, and that's why we're doing a wholesome genera strategy that includes differences and inequalities in health and in the system and includes giving abilities and instruments, but it also includes what I said, and it's actually in the endometriosis project. I am very pleased to have been able to give a video on women who have public visibility, explaining that it is endometriosis and I am very proud to be able to tell all the women of our country and all the men of our country that the rule...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.13.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.14.0	...it doesn't have to make an extreme pain, and that's why we have to... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.15.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about security policies]] [[310-00139/12]] The next question is about security policies. The question is raised, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs Esperança García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.16.0	Thank you, President. Bé, conseller..., look, since the beginning of the year I would like to know, the People's Party would like to know what measures its conseller has taken in relation to the different police zones and what coordinated police actions it has ordered from its conseller.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.17.0	To answer, the word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.18.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, it's very generic, the question that's asking me. I don't know if I can tell exactly what he wants to know, and I'll try to give him the detailed information. But generally throughout Catalonia the changes that have taken place..., get a lot, constantly get a lot, change, to try to age for the security of Catalans and Catalans. So, you can't ask me a sui generis question because I would need more than a minute or two minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.19.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.20.0	Thank you, President. Look, it's been a quarter, a quarter since 2018 home theft data was closed. The question is fundamentally focused on this, among other things because in this quarter, far from appearing to improve, it gets worse. So it's a reality we have on the table, isn't it? That is, in the end it gives the impression that you, who already have a tour, do not know that when a person is robbed at home at the end, even without violence, the victims of these thefts have a situation and an absolute feeling of defencelessness, which also causes them a certain anguish to know that they have been in their home, that they have removed all their intimate things, their photographs, their underwear, that they have not even learned that they have entered while they were inside, and that generates psychological damage that even makes them change their home, that makes them even organize themselves nearby. That's why I was asking you about the police areas, because neighborhood patrols have been created, brave neighbors who make police on the streets to cover your lack of seriousness about this matter. Look, I know the troops are who they are, I know the incidence is high, but you have to organize yourself. They have time, they have agents; they have the opportunity to coordinate with local police. If they still don't arrive, why don't they ask the National Police for help, which I would probably also be looking forward to helping? Because in the end the neighbors give exactly the same badge as the police officers who try to give them security in their homes, those who give them the peace of mind not to feel helpless by this government. Look, you've kept your arms crossed, both on that and on the issue of the police station in Plaza Catalunya, which has been closed for a year and a half on a terrorist alert 4, and with the robberies fired. You need to talk, talk to the collectives, create a structural bag of overtime for the cops and that you can improve that security. And last question: If the Central Electoral Board tells you to remove the bonds from the councils, will it order the Mossos to do so?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.21.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, again, the word has the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.22.0	Thank you, President. Member, allow me first of all to sympathise with your parliamentary group, with you. I know that they are not having a good time, after imposing a candidate to elect them to Madrid per Catalunya and that this candidate says that "if a gentleman is shooting shots it is easier to neutralize than when many people come out in a supposed and illegitimate vote in which they say democracy is voting. I must sympathize with you; I know you're having a hard time. Therefore, I count on my personal solidarity [[applause]] , because really, for a Democrat, when I hear that his head of the list in some elections says these barbarity..., I can do nothing but sympathize with you. Respect the data you gave me. Miri, the year 2018 we had 761,000 incidents; it was allocated 4 million hours to specific operating programs, among them that of housing. But concretely it was allocated 1 million hours to the prevention of the fight against terrorism; more than 1.1 million attestations were entered; 87,000 steps were taken; 29 criminal organizations and 82 criminal groups were dismantled. You're talking about the agents. So I, look, I understand that, with his speech to us now, it's a way of apologizing to the people of Catalonia because the People's Party Group banned us from hiring agents for eight years. So, if Catalonia has a few cops, it's because you decided we had a few cops. If we have more parties and we don't have enough police to be all over the country, then it's worth its politics to the head of the Congress, to the head of the Moncloa. And tell him one thing, if we've had a few cops and the police successes are on the table, it's thanks to 16,200 cops, men and women, who every day wear a uniform to defend Catalans, despite the policies you've followed. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the functioning of the health system]] [[310-00132/12]] The next question is about the functioning of the health system, presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar. The question is posed by the honourable Member Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.24.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. President Torra said on October 24 last: "On the waiting lists I wanted to say that we work in a decree that must allow us to move faster and forward in the solution. Now there's a couple of months ago the councillor also in this very council of the whole: "We're always looking at the data from the waiting lists, always looking where it can get better, and that's why we've proposed to make a decree law with all the intent of this department to continue working on the waiting lists. Counsel, we would like to know whether the decree exists, whether the government will approve it, whether it intends to seek consent and whether it has foreseen the needs that lie ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.25.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the words of the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.26.0	Thank you, President. Member, therefore, the lists of hope are always the priority of any of the governments that pass through here, to the Generalitat of Catalonia, and any of the Councillors and Councillors of Salvation, as it cannot otherwise be, in a system that we have with very good accessibility, with universal access to salvation that obviously generates from primary attention to surgical interventions, these lists and this management of how all the steps and all the levels of assistance are more accessible. A total of 373,699 interventions were made in 2018, i.e. 11,727 more, a 3,2_per_cent more than 2017. The intensity that arises and the economic effort that arises to reduce the waiting lists, after years of retailing, is incredible. The 94,1_per_cent of patients on the waiting list in December 2018 are within the established term. I'd like to reschedule this. And it is true that we have been working and still working with the goal of improving accessibility, because we said and explained that it is necessary to include, as a rule and by decree, clinical and social criteria for prioritizing waiting lists. Why? In order to guarantee a real equity, which does not mean the first that enters, the first that always emerges, only enter other criteria, apart from clinicians, apart from social and personal. And to prioritize the application in those procedures that we already have, that the data are transparent and that you also know where we have the most list of expectations, how morbid obedience can be, the raiders and allergy consults. Therefore, continue to improve the registers of waiting lists; do so absolutely transparently; continue these quality audits of waiting lists by giving us tools, not just diagnostics, but tools, to continue to improve them. And, by the way, the next week we'll be doing the pulse memory on the CatSalut Board of Directors to start processing for this standard of waiting lists. And to say that we maintain the time of guarantee and reference; they are set in the different orders we have in the Department of Health, and this we are following absolutely in our day-to-day. Therefore, the priority is highest, I mean a message to the citizenry: that we are working and always working, from all stages of the Department of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.27.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.28.0	President. Miri, Councillor of Salvation, we are before a government that does not rule, that its segell are the incompliments. A few months ago you signed agreements with the faculty after five days of travel and at this time you already have complaints for incompliment, especially for what you do in time for good attention. The decree of nursing prescription, which carries two years of delay, now we announce for the month of July. I can hear that with these precedents we have great doubts that we will come to see this decree. Counselor, I don't ask him or ask him for a government process or parliamentary validation. We demand that all the patients who are on the waiting list ask him: to put a thread in the needle, to stop saying what he will do and what he will do. You know as well as we do that waiting too long for specialized medical attention risks to health. We have information almost online, but the situation does not get better; on the contrary, it gets worse. We're not in good time. According to the latest data of 2018 in time of surgical waiting, Catalonia is at the cua, with 132 days, only exceeded for Castella - la Manxa. And in specialized consultation we are the last, only surpassed by Canàries. And it's not that the rest of Spain, when we look at data compared to Europe, is the best. We're patenting the most detailed binoculars of waiting, and we're running out of waiting times before the crisis. Do you ever think about the insecurities that patients have when they're stuck in a list hoping to be tickled? Listen, the public system's waiting lists are currently the main motivation of citizens to become mutual and have become the best advertising for the private sector. Allow me to doubt... not doubt, that I can say almost that I think it's all right...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.29.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.30.0	...this situation. In any case, we... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.31.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Ask the Government about nuclear power plants]] [[310-00133/12]] The next question is about nuclear power plants. The formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Forwarding, Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.32.0	Thank you, President. Madam Councillor, the Puigdemont and Torra governments have tried to pass points on the role of nuclear power plants in the Catalan energy system. 52 percent of the electricity production in Catalonia comes from nuclear energy, which at the same time demonstrates the government's little interest in boosting and implementing renewable energies. The Government of Spain has already presented Brussels with the Strategic Framework for Energy and Climate, on which, for the first time, the tanking schedule is fixed, as well as the Catalan nuclear power stations. How do you intend to replace this energy? And, what's more important, how will the affected areas reactivate economically?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, has the word "Consellera d'Empresa i Coneixement", the lady Maria Àngels Chacón.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.34.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. Indeed, there are now three nuclear power stations in operation, Ascó I, Ascó II and Vandellós II. According to my data, they satisfy 40_percent of the annual electricity demand, and we mark the target of closing the year 2027 the Climate Change Law, the Law 16/2017, and we are acting in three spheres. First, remember that nuclear activity is actually state-owned and in this sense there are three aspects in which we always insist, although we have to close them down, but, meanwhile, at the level of infrastructure there are more than obvious incompliments. Security plans are neither updated nor revised. And I repeat: it is the competence of the Spanish State. And also the tax that there was, therefore, is suspected to the Constitutional Court. Therefore, in these three aspects it would also be useful to insist. It's true, we have an important challenge. How are we acting? For the replacement of nuclear energy with renewables, I told you the other day about the creation, the constitution of the political table, the technical table; the impulse of the energy transition law, because if we have to replace all this energy we have to be renewables; the creation of the Catalan energy agency, and, obviously, encourage all this transition. And the last aspect for which you asked me: what will we do to...? – this activity is parallel – so from the Department of Industry we are already working on a reindustrialisation plan, not only for attracting investments, but also for studying training needs, the skills of people who are currently engaged in this activity and also how to supply the inputs that are now being generated from nuclear power plants. Therefore, answer: we are working, we will continue to push these consensual and cross-cutting agreements in which we also expect to count with you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.35.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.36.0	Miri, after listening to the Councilwoman, we think that they do not have an adequate energy policy, particularly in the districts of southern Catalonia. You will not complement renewable energy targets in electricity consumption by 2030. The data submitted for Icaen are insufficient to meet the objectives of the same fixed climate change law. And back to the nuclear power stations, the 2017 Tax Measures Act passed a new tax, you were talking about, a tax that affects nuclear power stations and their negative externalities. A 20_per_cent..., it is true, the law is appealed to the Constitutional, but the Constitutional Court has suspended its suspension and, therefore, is in force. About 20_percent of these entries should affect the territory, precisely for the economic reactivation of the areas affected by the closure. The Asco-Vandellós Nuclear Association is liquidating this tax, until 31 December the Generalitat has collected more than 17_million euros, approximately 3_million_i_mig set this 20_per_cent, which at these times are not destined to the territories with consensus with the assemblies. Therefore, we believe that if they explain to us what they intend to allocate these resources, they have not explained it to us. Looks like general expenses. We think it's a mistake, because the problems we have in the nuclear trades, because a time has come to decide on the timetable to start preparing the territory to get investments that will temper the possible economic impact. Other communities are already doing it. And what are you doing? Let them know, res. Counselor, it's time to set up a massive deployment of renewable energies, facilitate their processing and not stick to it as they have done so far. And how do they plan to meet the objectives set for the European Union, for the Law...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.37.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.38.0	... of climate change and how they intend to invest resources in the territory. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.39.0	It's the Councilwoman's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.40.0	Yes, sir, Congressman. Two days ago: I was telling him what we're working on to boost renewables and nuclear substitution, and, on the issue of attracting investments, I remind him, I don't know, that so badly they don't have to, because last week the prize for the best strategy of attracting investments has been recognized at international level, which he also – he recognizes, and very much – recognizes the policies that we are making out of the territories, not just the metropolitan area. Exactly in this, the day you want, with all the calm and quiet...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.41.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.42.0	...I'll explain... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments. Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.43.0	The next question is... [[Ask the Government about racist attacks on child protection centres]] [[310-00134/12]] ... on racist attacks on child protection centres, formulated by the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem. The question is asked by Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.44.0	Thank you, President. A previa: to regret, on behalf of my parliamentary group, a new case of a woman who committed suicide when she was about to be denouncing herself in Catalonia, when she was to be denouncing herself at home. Well, counselor, we obviously fully share the condemnation of the heavy racist attacks that have taken place at child protection centres where young and unaccompanied adolescents and young migrants are living and we share the condemnation of any attempt to make this speech of hatred or falsehoods attributed to these young or young presumed increases in crime that do not correspond to reality. But we are in a control session with the government, and it is their responsibility, their department and their government's, the guarantee of the rights of these vulnerable children and young people, the protection of this vulnerable child. And that can't be done in any way. It was hard, but finally the government heard, after a lot of insistence and a very important crisis the past year, that this is a country issue, that can not be addressed only from the Directorate General of Child Welfare, and that does not address it as it puts at risk the rights of these young people, but also the same system of protection to childhood, that does not go through its best time precisely. It was understood, a process was opened to elaborate a country strategy, presented by the past generation, but at this hour this strategy continues to feel a nice full road, but not executed. At the motion of my parliamentary group approved at the end of February it was approved that a timetable and presuppositional plan of action had to be delivered in one month. When will you deliver it, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.45.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, has the word the Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Family, is Mr. Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.46.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, the first thought I'd want to do is the gravity of what happened to Canet and Castelldefels. And I exercise that we have to do this whole chamber of, for what it does to racist attacks, to be blunt, not to use them partisanly and to be able to generate consensus. I think it's key – I think it's key – if not, we won't get out of it. And I'm doing this thinking; we have to do it all. Because the first..., the first basis of racist thinking is to talk about individuals as if they were all a collective, to deny diversity, to deny and to dehumanize people. And to these children and adolescents and young people, under the category of "menas, if'lsha dehumanized, we have forgotten that they have names and surnames, that they have vital projects and that they have some very important needs. And I did want to do this before I went around this element. From here, we are working and working specifically in a dimension, which is the dimension we see most clearly: the way to fight racism, to fight xenophobia is from interaction, knowledge and recognition of people. It's the key element. We're... we've already calendared the strategy, and we're seeing how we have it presupposedly in a situation of presuppositional prorogatory that we're all aware that right now...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.47.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.48.0	Counselor, totally agree: the best way to fight racism is interrelationship, mutual knowledge and recognition of rights. And, therefore, under his responsibility is that they do not continue to have the discoordination that exists with the assemblies. Because the best way to work on this mutual knowledge, this recognition of rights with the community is to use all the Community resources that depend on the gatherings. Therefore, they deploy, execute this strategy worked with everyone: the joints, with the other administrations, with the staff of the DGAIA, with the associations that work with this collection. Deploy and make sure... – as it now seems that they want to make the syndic's case – they take into account the more than one hundred recommendations of the syndic's respect for this topic; they take into account the syndic's constant recommendation in all his childhood reports of the deployment of the Law of Rights of Childhood, of the LDOIA, which is 2010 and is not yet deployed. We fight racism together...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.49.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.50.0	...and misinformation, but do it with a good... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.51.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.52.0	Thank you, President. Do they know what kind of danger we have? Sweetener. Do they know what kind of danger we have? Keep curtains. When two heads of week advanced twenty-five hooded people, entered a youth center and attacked the infants, attacked educators and educators, attacked security personnel, attacked the people of the entity who managed it, the worst we can do is set up smoke curtains. I believe that with this reality we must be very clear. From here we have to disconnect... because, if not, we'll end up entering the mental mark...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.53.0	Counselor, time is running out. [[Ask the Government about the lack of impartiality in the action of the Department of Justice]] [[310-00137/12]] The next question is about the lack of impartiality in the action of the Department of Justice, formulated for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. She asks the question, in her name, Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.54.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mrs. Capella, can you tell me what are the axes of your political action as a Justice Advisor?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.55.0	To answer, the word has the counselor of Justicia, the lady Esther Capella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.56.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Lorraine, my axes... if you were at my appearance, the first appearance that I did as the counselor, may perfectly well know which are the axes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.57.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.58.0	Yes, Mrs. Capella, I was at that appearance, what happens is that it doesn't fit what you said with what you're doing, because you, in this year of government, have dedicated yourself to favoring your nationalist friends, who have skipped the law, have dedicated yourself to questioning the work of the judges and, by the way, also to abandoning the officials. And to the facts I refer, Mrs. Capella. I have already asked you a thousand times about visits to the trial prisoners while in your custody, and you have systematically denied me this information. We have the cover of the Bureau, we have the cover of the lawyers of this house, but you continue to hide this information. What do you have to cover, Mrs. Capella? But I'm still here. These days we have also known that you intend to grant the third degree to Oriol Pujol, that gentleman who is condemned for cohecho, for documentary falsehood and for traffic in influences, a gentleman sentenced to two and a half years in prison, of whom he has completed the cold – note the irony – of fifty_and_seven_days; fifty_and_seven_days of two and a half years, but you decide that he can already leave. Of course, they don't hide a little bit. To answer the questions I ask you, you don't have time. But, hey, to favor and give permission to the trial friends, that's what you're flying for. Do you know what you might be in the same hurry? In condemning the harassment and the remark suffered by the judicial secretary of Judgement No. 13 of Barcelona, by the radical separatists. Your data has been filtered, your photograph, where to locate it. Where did this data come from, Mrs. Capella? Have you initiated any kind of investigation? Have you opened any files? This is the fear with which officials in Catalonia live that they do not commune with their ideas. I am not going to repeat here the barbarities that the separatist radicals have dedicated to the judicial secretary these days, but it is that they have threatened her, insulted her, vexed her, wished her, Mrs. Capella, a group rape with a cane chipped. You a few days ago inaugurated the Catalan Observatory of Justice in Machist Violence. Well, do you know what I'm saying? That you can already start investigating around here and I hope you will. You are the antithesis of what is expected of a Justice Advisor. You are dedicated to criticizing justice. You ignore the staff's claims, you have the prisons and the courts that literally fall to pieces, but the only thing you are worried about is that Mr. Oriol Pujol, that gentleman who is convicted of bringing him warmed up in the case of ITV, will go home as soon as possible. It's outrageous and it's embarrassing, like everything they do. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.59.0	To answer the word you have the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.60.0	Mrs. Roldán, it's so predictable, you, when you ask the questions, so predictable... Miri, I'm giving you a strong answer. Neither right nor right for anyone, and therefore this applies to Mr Oriol Pujol or to any person who is deprived of liberty. [[Greetings.]] Is Li clear, Mrs. Roldán? And that's a basic premise that you should also be clear about, because if you've studied right you know perfectly well that everyone is the same before the law. And what does that mean? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I'm telling you. Miri, when you speak of Mr. Pujol, I have already said to him: no more right or less right. And what does that mean? That this gentleman has the same right as anyone else to be classified. And what does that mean? So that the treatment board of the penitentiary center has the obligation that when a person enters a prison center is observed and classified, and the classification proposal does the treatment board, that you should know... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No... that you should know... that's two months ago, two months ago. The classification proposal has to do with the qualification they make and the qualification and the interviews that the members of the treatment board do, which has nothing to do with the councillor or the executive team of the councillor: it has to do with specialists, it has to do with social workers, with psychologists, etc. The one that passes, that you want to generate a mental_mark. And I insist on one thing: no more right and no less right for everyone. That's the premise of the Justice Council, and that's what we'll do. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.61.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the government about the right not to manipulate elections with party symbols in public buildings]] [[310-00138/12]] The next question is about the right not to manipulate elections with party symbols in public buildings. Formulated for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, asks the question Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.62.0	Good morning, Mr. Bosch. The Catalans and the whole of Spain are amazed now that they know that President Torra does not intend to respect neither the cleanliness of the elections nor his highest arbitrator, the electoral board. As a Transparency Adviser and as the highest responsible for electoral processes, what do you intend to do about it, Mr Bosch?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.63.0	To answer the words of the Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Alfred Bosch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.64.0	Mr. Carrizosa, yesterday the government spokesman was very clear and very precise: we are waiting for a report from the Greuges Synod; depending on this report... – it is not rigour from the Greuges Synod – depending on this report [[applause]] It will take a decision on what is at the front of the Palau de la Generalitat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.65.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.66.0	Mr. Bosch, do citizens, before paying taxes, ask the syndic for advice, or what? [[Greetings.]] I asked you: what will you do to fulfil your duty and ensure that the elections will be fair and that the neutrality of the institutions will be respected? Look, you sit next to Mr. Buch, this counselor who will have to answer to justice for camouflaging an alleged advisor, who is actually an escort from a fugitive. Ask Mr. Buch if he intends to do his duty and to put the Mossos d'Esquadra, as a state security force, to do what the electoral board says. And ask him already in passing, as you are next door, whether the dome of the Mossos is warning you that you must comply with what the electoral board tells you and you plan to do so. Because then we find out about the judgments that the dome warns politicians that they are in breach of the law. And I would also ask you to ask, in order to guarantee a clean election, Mr Buch if you intend to investigate the fascist attacks that we suffer at night in the seats some parties, that break the crystals and clean the seats for us, while some deputies here are jealous of those fascist lords of Arran... Tell him that not protecting the political parties during the elections is like sending the brown shirts to the opposition to drown them. Also talk to the President's Counsellor and ask her if you intend to use TV3 to air the Generalitat Government's theses. You, as responsible for the clean-up of the elections..., how is it possible that you do not see that you cannot use TV3, public buildings, the Interior Council, to stifle the opposition? What are you going to explain when you go to Europe, Mr Bosch? Will he explain that he refuses to comply with the law, that he asks the syndic for advice to do so, that he will not organize an election...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.67.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.68.0	...democratic? Do your duty. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.69.0	To answer the word the counselor has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.70.0	Mr. Carrizosa, do you want to know what electoral manipulation is? Electoral manipulation: on a day of reflection, carried to the ABC newspaper. [[Greetings.]] Do you know this cover? [[The counselor shows it.]] It's recognizable, Mrs. Rimadas, is it recognizable? That's electoral manipulation. [[The applause continues.]] Did they report it? - Did they report it? They didn't report it. You're just reporting what they're interested in. And I can explain to them a lot more about what you ask in this question, which is electoral manipulation. Miri, news to the Diari Public, June 7, 2018: "Citizens, the party that commits the most irregularities in their accounts. Citizens had registered as donations in kind the payment by third parties of electoral invoices. [[Greetings.]] ABC, March 11, 2019: « Puppet in Citizens. Igea wins the primary after the vote count. The country, March 14th: "Citizens silenced fraud in primary schools until critics threatened to go to court. The World, March 17, 2019: « They denounce a possible punch in the Citizens primary in Cantabria, with twenty votes in the same IP. And you have the bar to talk about electoral fraud? [[Greetings.]] But if you're the fraud! The fraud is you! He's got a PhD. He's a fraud. And today I've been forced to go to the copy shop, too. [[relays]] to prove that you – yours – have this problem. And they have a hard problem – they have a hard problem – which is said to be electoral elections. And so, that's why they raise the issue, that's why they need to throw fire at things like deep loops. You know perfectly well, Mr. Carrizosa: the deep ties will no longer be the day when we have no political exiles and exiles, no political prisoners and no political prisoners. [[Greetings.]] Do you want to reconcile with the dark color? Mr. Carrizosa, do you want to reconcile with the dark color? Do you want to overcome this trauma you have with the dark color? Listen, so I'll return the exiles and the exiles, and release the prisoner and the political prisoners, and they'll reconcile. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.71.0	Thank you, Counselor. Before I continue with the questions, let me remind the public that they must refrain from demonstrations, and also applaud. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the Covenant against School Segregation]] [[310-00136/12]] The next question, as we initially agreed, was the fourth question, which is the question about the Covenant against School Segregation. Formulated for the Republican Parliamentary Group, asks the question Mr Bernat Solé.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.72.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, the Bofill Foundation has been a few months now that a segregated school network, where schools have distinctly different profiles of students, is at the socio-economic, academic or ethnic level, a network that compromises the equal opportunities function of education. As a result, this leads to an increase in educational inequality and a reduction in the overall effectiveness of the network. On the other hand, a reduction in school segregation favours equity in educational outcomes and, at the same time, a more efficient management of the material and human resources of the centres. This past day, at the instigation of the syndic and with the support of the Department of Education, with a good part of the educational community, of the parliamentary arch, and together with almost all the municipalities of more than two thousand inhabitants and the municipalist entities, was signed in this very Parliament the Pact against School Segregation, a document that clearly exemplifies the broad consensus in the armoring of the education system of Catalonia, as a guarantee of equal opportunities. Objects of this magnitude require an effort of all parts. The diverse society in which we live unfortunately does not everyone start walking from the same exit line, and that is why administrations, political representatives and educational community in general have the obligation and responsibility to work coordinatedly because this exit line is the same for everyone. For all these reasons, counselor, and with reference to the content of this pact, which initiatives are due to the end of the department and which initiatives have planned to implement the Department of Education to address school segregation in the educational centres and thus ensure equal opportunities for all students in the public education system of our country?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.73.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, the education advisor, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.74.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament... as you have said, the signature of the Pact against Segregation, which has become in this Palau del Parlament, is very important. It's very important because it puts us on the table to fight decisively and jointly against school segregation and, therefore, to make a decisive, absolute, radical, firm bet for fairness at school. And it is very important not only because there were historical representatives of the pedagogical thinking of our home, such as the Association Rosa Sensat; not only because there were representatives of the first line of battle against school segregation, such as the representatives of the MPAs of the high and most complex centers, but because there was all the local world, there were all the municipalities of more than two thousand inhabitants. They took the word, representing this absolute transversality of the local world, the Mayor of Salt, the Mayor of Montcada and Reixac, the Mayor of Vic, the Mayor of Hospitallet and the Mayor of Sabadell. Just what we're doing more forcefully and more forcefully is, from the hands of the local world, reactivating the municipal school offices, reactivating the contents of the mixed tables and working to sign agreements between the department and these assemblies. We are working to sign with Granollers, with Prat, with Badalona, with Santa Coloma de Gramenet, and we already have them, because what it is about is precisely: who knows more about the reality of the municipality, with whom it is the educational authority, to make joint decisions to work in a way, as I said, firm and decided. The department, for its song, has the obligation of the decree of admission it is making, but, I insist, it is this joint work department-assemblies that will be the most important line of struggle against school segregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.75.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the President of the Generality about the lack of priority in the compliment and the establishment of measures related to the conservation of the environment and the natural benefits and the fight against climate change]] [[317-00076/12]] Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. The first question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy lady Natialia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.76.0	Good morning, President. Did you know that the last month of February the Spanish State agreed with IBEX 35's electrical companies to extend the life of nuclear power plants to the territories? Did you know that a few months ago three projects of mining investigations in the Pyrenees came to light in an area declared a natural park? President, do you know that in Cadaqués, in the area of Sa Guarda, they intend to build one hundred_four houses and a luxury hotel on a land near the Cap de Creus Natural Park? Do you know that right now there are diggers destroying dry stone walls while we're here? President, do you have any knowledge of the gravity of the uncontrolled increase in swine and aus in Catalonia for human consumption? Do you know the hard consequences of contamination of the aquifers, 41% of which is already contaminated by nitrates? Do you know that the inauguration of the five terminal of creuers to the spring on the port of Barcelona..., in only six months has a new record of creuerists, more than 3_million in Barcelona, with the increase of contaminant emissions and gases of winter effect that entails and that contradict the will of the Law of Climate Change? President, are you aware that the governments of the Generality, with the aim of protecting the automotive industry, have systematically incomplete the maximum levels of air pollution recommended for the WHO, and that this implies 3,500 premature deaths every year only in the metropolitan area of Barcelona? President, who are the reasons why your government prioritizes the interest of a few operators, the interests of a few companies, going beyond the preservation and conservation of the environment, the natural benefits and the health and well-being of people, which is the general interest of the majority?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.77.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.78.0	Thank you. Thank you, Congresswoman. Actually, there are many, let's say, notes that you have placed on the table. What I want to say to you is that for us environmental, sustainability and territorial balance policies are an absolute priority of this Government, and of this councillor, absolute, in the journeys I take, in the hundred and twenty trips I have made from the territory, to the High Land, to the Pyrenees, to central Catalonia or to the Costa Brava, is an absolute priority. And then I'll prove it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.79.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.80.0	Certainly, President, I have raised many questions. The previous legislature gave us a Catalan law of climate change, a pioneer in Europe. Two years later, the main elements of this law have not developed. Councillor Josep Rull has committed himself to developing the emission rate of the economic activity, the nitrogen dioxide emission rate, large vessels and cages, but Councillor Damià Calvet, his advisor who says he prioritizes these issues, has decided that it is not a priority. The Catalan law of climate change, without these measures, is full paper. And they show us a little more, with this immobiliistic attitude, that you, who fill your mouth, as you have just done, with speeches of environmental sustainability, only respond to the economic and political interests of capitalism, and, therefore, ignore the writing of thousands of people and above all the young people who came out on March 15th in the street to demand a worthy future, a dignified life and urgent measures to stop the climate change. President, your government is doing nothing about climate change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.81.0	Congresswoman, time's up. [[Pause.]] To answer, again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.82.0	Congresswoman, I'm sorry, but it's not true – it's not true. That you and we have different country models, that's obvious. Okay? And that we prioritize a country of opportunity for everyone, but a country of progress for everyone, that, I think, is also true. Their models are completely different. But we are the government that has applied a moratorium – a moratorium – to the Costa Brava, in two terms of the Costa Brava. We are a government that, when it came to the High Land, said that this government was against the red Riba-batter, we said it, and we told the people who were there. We're a government that, in the end, we pulled back into the Empordad watermelons... we pulled back into the Empordad watermelons some policies that hurt the territory. Miri, I don't know if you're traveling like I'm from the territory, but I assure you I'm in this country. And if anything bothers me, if anything bothers me about this country, do you know what it is? Depopulation; that our pages, that our fishermen have all the opportunities and can do the work with all dignity. Look, this week I came to see the Pages Union. And we had a very interesting conversation where they put me on the table the problem with the CAP, the problem of family estates in agricultural enterprises. This is very worrying to me, because I don't want an empty country; I want a country full of life, I want a country where the page is able to win its future and the future of its children, and I have all the opportunities. And that goes to a sustainable country, a balanced country. And this is the policy we're pursuing, helping the economic engines out there. Of course I do! Also this same week we visited the port of Tarragona, an economic motor phone. So I'll be at the side of the port of Tarragona. And he's gonna hold me against the red Riba's buffooner. In this country it is possible to reconcile economic activity with respect to the environment, progress and future...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.83.0	President, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.84.0	...for the page, it's possible. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.85.0	Thank you. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the government's inaction in the fight against climate change]] [[317-00078/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Ms.Jéssica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.86.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, like you, we've already listened to him, he likes to talk about life, and I also want to ask him about the fight against climate change. We have until 2030 to put an end to the disaster and to Catalonia we carry more than a decade of time. The sale, thousands of young people in Catalonia and the world went out to give an alert cry, because it's already a matter of survival and because if anyone thinks that climate change is not a real problem for the citizenry they will only have to wait two years and they will be. In fact, it is not a problem of the future, it is our responsibility to present: what we do or stop doing will affect our lives, our daughters and our grandchildren. President, at this point in time when institutions have to decide what they are, whether they are on the cost of life, progress and climate justice, or whether they are in favor of the privileges of a few who promote a predatory system, do you think your government is on the rise?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.87.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.88.0	This government is on the rise, and it's on the rise of this front, of course, as much on the rise as its greatest ambition can be. We're right there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.89.0	Thank you, President. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.90.0	Yeah. President, we're tired, people are tired of their good words and zero actions. Catalonia had a commitment to reach 2020 with 20_percent of renewable energy, to reach 2030 with 50_percent of renewable energy, and do you know where we are? We're at a quarter of the targets. And do you know what your government did in a year of high school? I'll tell you, he's done nothing. Ara – ara – says: "Well, we want to invest 1_million euros in photovoltaic plates. Now we want to finish the year with twenty more points of electric charging. Now we want to keep seeing the coupons to decarbonize the industry... Do you know how many taxes your government's been promoting because of who's accounting for it? I'll tell you what: boss, boss, boss, green tax. Because you are the government of promises, of commitments, of reprehenses, of volition, but it is that they do not do anything, they do nothing, they are the government of inaction. I ask them to listen to the young man who went out to the streets, to listen to the Greta Thunberg and to act, to do the favor of acting, because the feminist movement and the movement for climate justice are the two expansive ones that are going through our societies to change everything, and because they have come to stay, because we need a world and a country where the rights, all the rights, and the media rights are shielded. And it has to be done with dialogue, with alliances and with courage. Because in the fight against climate change, president, you don't need a green transition for the rich and an ecological disaster for the poor. The answer must be shared and agreed. So governments, and they act or they don't do it, bring in a question of trust, because this country can no longer bear its inaction anymore. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.91.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.92.0	Miri, this government rules, among other things, why, if you don't rule, and rule, huh? And, therefore, we want to be the ones who govern ourselves. I am fully aware of the demonstration that took place there and of Fridays for Future; it is more, I encourage all our young Catalans to continue fighting, as does the Swedish of seven years, Mrs Greta Thunberg, and who is coming out of the world. It's as unstoppable as the 8-M, yes, sir. Feminism and climate are two unstoppable ones. And we must be on his side; of course we must be on his side. I would like to recall what was the first law approved by President Puigdemont, the government of President Puigdemont: the Climate Change Law– the Climate Change Law–, Mrs Albiach, approved with broad consent, pioneer in southern Europe; a law which, like the rest of the most risky and advanced laws socially approved by the Parliament, was, oh surprise, appealed to the former Spanish Government before the Constitutional Court. What are we doing and how are we working? Deploying this Climate Change Law, and especially the Climate Fons. We will properly process the decree for establishing the composition and the rules of operation of the Interdepartmental Commission on Climate Change and the functioning of the Climate Fund, as well as the functioning of the Social Table on Climate Change. And that's what I can do today, through environmental taxes, you know perfectly well: the commercial aircraft, the radioactive elements, which are already in force, these two, or the carbon dioxide emissions of mechanical traction vehicles, which are in processing. You asked me about the taxes; these are the three taxes we have. What else are we doing, from the government? – and Councilman Calvet knows very well. All the electricity that you use Railways of the Generalitat from 2019 will be of renewable origin. Is that what Renfe's doing? Is that what you're doing? Our railroads are doing it. Pushing help to buy net cars, as one of the measures that sets the Pla of better quality of the urban conurbation area; reinforcing public transport; putting in march nine stations of the L9, as we did this week... I think, like other polemics, that the fight against climate change would not put it in the political Tableau, because I think that all together we must be able to find the great consensus of the country. This is a subject of great country consensus. I hope we're all following. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.93.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the value attached to him in the public opinion barometer of the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinion and about the government's lack of action]] [[317-00075/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mr. Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.94.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Very honorable President of the Generality, we have only recently known the results of the barometer of the Generality's Centre for the Study of Opinion. Of the many data he has provided, I want to highlight one. You're the president who got the lowest rating in the second barometer of the mandate: Carles Puigdemont, 5.1; José Montilla, 5.4; Arthur Mas, 5.8; and you, 4.3. Have you given any thought to these data? Who do you think the causes of this low value can be?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.95.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.96.0	Look, I think about it every day, because as president of all Catalans, I try to serve the best I can for all Catalans. And so, obviously, I don't like this cup, but we're still ruling, we're still here. And you know what I'm saying? This poor government, this weak government, has already seen two presidents of the Spanish government pass through its front. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.97.0	I've got the word the deputy again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.98.0	Yeah. Probably his answer shows why it will not improve the future appreciation. [[Greetings.]] But I would like to tell you that we do have an explanation: you are only looking at my country and you have abandoned government action. I'll give you some examples. Parliament approves a mandate to lower the price of university subjects and to equate the price of masters with degrees, and you do not do so. Parliament approves that the Generalitat is again committed to the financing of municipal schools, and you do not do so. Parliament approves that the working conditions and equipment of police officers and firefighters are better, and you do not. You've committed to updating the School House Order, and you haven't. They had to deploy the Children's Law, and they didn't. They had to pass a law of accessibility to reduce waiting lists, and they didn't. They had undertaken to approve the Tourism Regulation, among other things, to regulate tourist accommodation, and they did not do so. They committed themselves to bringing a science bill to Parliament, and they didn't. You yourself had to bear the names of the members of the National Council of Culture and Arts, and you didn't. In order not to do so, they have not even approved the draft assumptions for 2019, which seems that, yes, they have, they have stuck it to the web and they have commented to the government. We have asked him to take him to Parliament, but you say to us, "We don't have a majority to do this. Look, President, if you really want to rule for the Catalans, to improve the value that the same Generality's inquiries bring to you, we suggest that you govern, we suggest you bring to Parliament the draft assumptions, and, if you don't like to do so, we suggest you present a question of trust or summon elections. Catalonia cannot afford more years without government, more years without direction, more years of weakness. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.99.0	To answer, again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.100.0	Yes; these are also days of reflection. I'll be sure to make an appointment about this book of the Emile Zola, the Jo Accused! But I also read the book of Mr. Pedro Sánchez, a book of a resistant. There is a very interesting phrase, by Mr Sánchez, in this book; he says: "During the whole crisis – it is a reference to the crisis of the year 2017, the October one – « I realized that Rajoy did not want to apply the 155; he resisted, but suffered internal pressures. I'd say, "Hey, here's the PSOE." I'd invite him to use us if he needed it. It's fantastic, isn't it? "Hey, here's the PSOE, huh? Count on me. [[Some applause.]] That's kind of the problem, you know? This is a bit of a problem, Mr.Iceta: that the PP always counts on the PSOE; that you voted 155. And I want to remind you, because this week it will be one year – this week a year ago – that Councillor Jordi Turull presented, in his investiture speech, his plan of government – he presented it there; it was a year ago – one of the moments, I think, when all the Members of Parliament must feel more ashamed of having been in this Parliament just as all of our fellow Members from abroad would be imprisoned. There's these deep loops out there, and before that, there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... And I remember that the weekend, the weekend of the investiture session of Mr. Jordi Turull, that there was his family, we asked them all for a applause of solidarity with his family. And I remember very well who got up and who didn't get up that day. I remember very well, Mr. Iceta. Miri, you tell me we don't rule. Do you want me to tell you only the social measures that we have prepared this March? Social measures... we have approved the decree of urgent measures to improve access to housing. We have set up a new L10 station, « Provençana, at the Hospital of Llobregat. We have presented the project of the new Joan XXIII hospital, one in a first phase we will invest 50_million euros, to be executed between the years 2020 and 2023. We have inaugurated the Angeleta Ferrer school of Mataró. And we plan to start soon the proceedings of the new Institut Les Five Senies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.101.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.102.0	All of this. That's all... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.103.0	The next question... [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the value it makes of the March 16 demonstration in Madrid about the right of self-determination]] [[317-00079/12]] ...the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.104.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President. This disband, as I have said, will make a year of the unjust and shameful impression of President Forcadell, of the Constellera Bassa, of the Constellers Romeva, Turull and Rull. He will make, dissabte, a year of the unjust exile of Marta Rovira, our general secretary. We'll add a week more to the ignominious engagement of friends and companies Junqueras, Forn, Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez; a week more of justice to democracy, of a trial against everyone and against everyone. And a little more – and already many – we have come back to the streets, massively, peacefully protesting, proud of the longings that unite us. Sovereignism has come out on the street again. This time in Madrid, for the first time in Madrid, accompanied by you that we appreciate feeling clean, holding them close, of this Madrid solidarity and commitment in a struggle that is of all. It's all because the violation of Catalan rights puts all the freedoms of the Spanish State on hold. The game, therefore, president, is not only ours; not only, because the threat is against everyone. Social, political, civil rights and freedoms are at stake for all, in a state that has already taught us its worst version. Today's armoring our rights implies, as we so often remember, Culturalism..., I mean, more than ever, sharing struggles, making our peaceful and democratic struggle a sign for everyone I engage fraternally. We want a country that is better, fairer, more social, freer and more grateful to see people accompanying us in this fight. And this week's demonstration in Madrid is just that: building alliances also on self-determination. Because self-determination is not a crime, but a right. Today, we have an unjust feeling, and we only want it, we can only hear it absolute. When we arrive, a strong government will warm us up, we will have committed advisors, a united and firm parliamentary majority, republican assemblies to give response to the new repressive wave representing these sentiments. And with the institutions in the front, reworking accomplices with whom you see, in our struggle, the struggle for the republic, a way to overflow the State, to overcome limitations and, above all, to win rights for everyone. And re-vote and re-win. In any case, President, I would like to ask you what your appreciation of this week's event in Madrid is.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.105.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.106.0	Yes, Congressman, with you, I was also at this event, and in the first place I would like to sincerely thank the organizers of this event, so once more..., the organizers, the volunteers, to organize a demonstration in Madrid I imagine it has to be complicated. To them, to the volunteers, my thanks, because once again all that we went to that demonstration we demonstrated what we have always known and what precisely this judgment intends to deny us: that the independence movement is a democratic movement, it is a peaceful, non-violent movement, and that simply, with all determination and until the last consequences, it wants to exercise its right to self-determination. I dared to make the Maragallian solution, in the sense of grabbing, counselor, of your avi, the idea of ''listen, Spain. It is clear that that demonstration was a cry to Spain, a cry for freedom. It was to say: "Listen, Spain, listen to this cry of freedom from all these people, who represented all these millions of Catalans who want to exercise their right to self-determination and who are determined to do so. To insist on it – before I told the deputy, Mr Iceta –: we saw the two presidents of the Spanish Government pass by because they did not want to talk about the right to self-determination in Catalonia. You can't rule against Catalonia. And this seems to me to be also one of the great expressions and conclusions of the Madrid demonstration. I think more about – and allow me to – the reactions that there were to this manifestation: that the PP, Vox and Citizen come out criminalizing even the whole fact that we manifest ourselves, well, it starts to be already an obvious and, therefore, can not waste much time on it; but that President Sánchez, immediately went out saying, denying, right? : "The independence of Catalonia is never going to be possible under my mandate, denying the possibility of voting another time, the possibility, eh? , which is what we are claiming and in all the negotiations I have made with President Sánchez was the same: "Listen, I have claimed the exercise of the right to self-determination. I said, "Let's put it in a paper. We put it in a paper which is the Catalan position, and you put it in a paper which is the Spanish position. And that there is a rapporteur who somehow vaguely expresses how we are moving forward. This has always been the Catalan position. And this is always being denied, permanently, by the Spanish government. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Always, yes, that of the Government of Catalonia. And so, that's what I think at this demonstration we were back to show the Catalans we went to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.107.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.108.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.109.0	The next question is the formula... [[Question to the President of the Generality about Spanish democracy and the banalization and frivolization of fascism]] [[317-00077/12]] ...on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Deputy Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.110.0	President Torra, good morning. Since October 1, 2017, there is a recurring question: Is Spain a democracy? Is it a democracy understood in a full sense, as we have always understood Western democracies, built up in values and attitudes of respect, fraternal and civic? But now that no one is alienated, seeing the trial of political prisoners is normal to ask questions. They see the game of remarkable fish memory opponents; they see ex-governments of selective memory; they see men of state threatening everyone and yet and now you see that they don't know anything about it; they see Mr. Rajoy or Soraya Saenz of Four Houses there is who is wondering if Spain is a democracy. It's logical. Civilian guards that only remember to the card; the denial of the judge to see images of what happened; the game of a state that before a political problem, you know, comes out on the ground. See all this, there's who holds that Spain is a democracy but a democracy in Spain. So for the bad guys, in Catalan, democracy is respect, it's voting and it's also manifesting itself, as Congressman Sabria said now. That is why we disbanded more than a hundred thousand Catalans and we mobilized in Madrid to defend the right to independence and to defend the same democracy. A democracy that with repression has experienced stress; a democracy that has for many months deserved a warning from political Europe. But, of course, when the President of the European Parliament, Mr Tajani, says that Mussolini did good things, such as doing cartoons, man, he does for. At my head, President, all people swallowed up, with moustache, explaining that Franco made pantans and that thanks to his clairvoyance came the holidays, the fridge and the Six-cents. Tajani knows he's skated and he knows the Germans don't talk about Hitler in the leugera. In fact Tajani apologized to the style, like the father of the king of 155, who after a hunt said: "I'm sorry, I was wrong; it will not happen again. President, how do we respond, how do we respond before the banalization of evil that Hannah Arendt so timely denounced? As we can put up with the frivolization of the past, the past that should never come back.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.111.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.112.0	Thank you, Congressman. So we have to act accused. This Catalan translation just came out of the famous articles by Emile Zola gathered as the accused Jo, the truth in the march. There is a very nice phrase about the whole Dreyfus case, etc., that says Zola: "The truth is on the move and nothing will stop it. I think the independence process has done just that, put the truth in the way. And it has begun to situate concepts such as Spanish democracy, such as judicial independence, such as the separation of powers, such as the neutrality of Spanish institutions, the Constitutional Court, the Central Electoral Board, etc., in question. And we've seen a no state. We have seen a state completely stripped before this political crisis that is based on the defense of rights, human rights and civil rights, social rights and the right to self-determination that at these times Catalonia represents; and it represents as the tip of the line and that it should be a pride for all the Democrats of the State not only here. And we have agreed that at the end of the Spanish democracy..., questioned including at international level – and I do not say so, I say the Elcano report, where, really, in a very important inquiry of different European countries, there is the concern that in many European countries there was about this Spanish democracy. I think that the best phrase that represents what the Spanish State means today is what the President of the Supreme Court said in September 2017, Mr Lesmes, when he said: "The unity of the Spanish nation is a direct mandate for the judges, no democratic principle can defend or legitimize that a party has everything at its disposal. I mean, we find ourselves before a state based intrinsically on the unity of the Spanish nation, huh? This is the unity of destiny in the universal world. It is, therefore, to point out that we are ahead of a democracy of imposition and not of a democracy of adherence that involves citizens, which considers that their rights of freedom of expression, of protest, of participation are right to safeguard. This is the authoritarian state we face. I thank you for just today's time in question. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.113.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the presence of deep and stelades in public buildings and the request of the Central Electoral Board to withdraw them]] [[317-00074/12]] The next question, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, is the formula of Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.114.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Torra, have you personally read the writing of the Central Electoral Board that forces you to remove party symbols from public buildings?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.115.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.116.0	From start to finish, and I answered him, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.117.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.118.0	I'm asking if you've read it to him because either you haven't read it to him or you haven't understood it, that it may be, or you think you can do whatever you want. I ask you what part of withdrawing separatist propaganda you have not understood, Mr. Torra. [[Widow's remorse.]] It is believed that you can do whatever you want, whatever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.119.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.120.0	Don't get nervous – don't get nervous – who here are very chickens and then in front of the judges don't see how they come down, huh? [[Widow's remorse.]] What it was thought meant to be a ruler, that you could do what you wanted and what you wanted. You really think that you can force citizens to pay taxes, to comply with the rules or to obey the judges and then you are here doing whatever you want, charging a pastry, as you all do, and above that you raise your salary. You have filled the public buildings of all the Catalans with ties that you use, of the stellates that you claim, of the faces of the candidates of the separatist parties to which you represent. [[The oratora shows some photographs to the chamber.]] To give you an example, for example, this type of banner is in any type of building or this type of separatist propaganda. I ask you a question, Mr Torra, what do you say to the citizens who have to go to these public buildings, their buildings, to make some management, to stand up, to shut up, to swallow? What do you say to officials who are not separatists who have to go to work here, who are quiet and who also stand up, who are not Catalans? Look, this is a shame at any time of the year, but it is a shame even more during the election period, because administrations have to be neutral. We already know that you like illegal referendums, elected electoral unions here by finger, but don't hide behind the counselors and counselors, Mr. Torra, don't hide behind the major processor of the kingdom, who is the syndic of heaviness – probably the best paid – because citizens before paying taxes can't go to the syndic of Greuges, Mr. Torra; neither can you. You think you're cheating on someone with this? Do you really think this is going to do you any good? I say it..., I repeat it again, that then in front of the judges you come down, you throw the dead to each other, don't remember, it was symbolic... I just tell you not to think that Sánchez is like half of Catalonia that you don't represent and that already enough separatist propaganda in public buildings.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.121.0	Congresswoman, time's up. [[Pause. Greetings.]] To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.122.0	Yeah. Mrs. Arrimadas, we'll be missing your smile and your posters. [[Give me the applause.]] The truth is that it is hard for me to know that the head of the opposition, that it is supposed to lead the change to the government, so they're going to Madrid. It tastes hard, doesn't it? And above all, because we will not have the opportunity to enjoy these performances that you, therefore, each session of control offer us free of charge. If you consider these deep links and these stars to be political symbols, you are accepting that we have political prisoners. [[Greetings.]] They're accepting this. First thing. So listen to me: I will never forbid anything, I am in favour of freedom of speech, and more freedom of speech and more democracy. So you'll always find me here. And I don't love anything; I've taken the decisions I think I've had to take. I said: I read the resolution and I answered it, Mrs. Arrimadas, and I didn't really feel like anything. As I have also denounced that on this Central Electoral Board, do you know who is there? Read the resumes of the people there and the magistrates... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, jutges. For example, two Supreme Court courts that are judging our companies, that are allowing in that court to act as the popular Vox accusation, which is the party with which you – you – agreed in Andalusia. [[Greetings.]] But it's the same. While you present resources and quarrels and fan electoralism, that's what you do [[Funnel veils]] – no, no; the resources and the quarrels present them to you–, I visited one hundred and fifty assemblies and forty Catalan communities, I met with the deputies in order to be able to pull the optical fiber forward and to pull forward the Cultural Community. While you bring politics to justice – all you do is judicialize politics – we carry the country's policy. And I've visited the four Pyrenees, the Pallars Justa, the Pallars Will Sobire, the High Reign and the Aran, and we've made an executed council to the Aran. While you are not listening to the people, we are on the side of the country, listening to all the demands of the entrepreneurs, the pages – I met with the Union of Pages – from the Third Sector Table, which came here to the 155th Commission, and what did you say to them? , which had been enormously counterproductive...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.123.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.124.0	...for the interests of the third sector 155. You listen to people and you do... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.125.0	Finished... thank you. After the control session, let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the totality debate on the Bill for equal treatment and non-discrimination. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules of Procedure... [[Maria Sirvent I write asking to speak.]] Yes; why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.126.0	To ask that the application of Article 239 is remembered, is to say, in breach of the Rules, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.127.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.128.0	Well, we understand that he expressed it« you are very chickens, but in front of the judges you come down [[applause]] It is an expression that must not be allowed in this Parliament. And we ask both the President and the Bureau to reconsider putting a warning or a warning to the Member in relation to that expression. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.129.0	Member, there was no call to order, but in any case we will collect your complaint and deal with it in a timely manner at the Bureau. Thank you. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.130.0	Yes, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.131.0	Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.132.0	Yes; for contradictions. [[Pause.]] The same deputy who now intends to give us style lessons yesterday was flaunting the fascist attacks...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.133.0	That, Mr. Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.134.0	...of Arran, in the commission [[applause]] Yesterday, I was throwing them away...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.135.0	That's not because of contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.136.0	...the attacks...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.137.0	You don't have the word, Congressman, you don't have the word, because that's no contradiction, no. [[Pause.]] Thank you. It's clear, Congresswoman. We collect the complaint and we will deal with it in a timely manner at the Bureau. Thank you. [[Bill for equal treatment and non-discrimination (totality debate)]] [[200-00006/12]] We continue, as we say, with the debate of totality on the Bill for equal treatment and non-discrimination. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules, the initiative is presented by the Councillor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, Mr. Chakir El Homrani. [[Long break.]] When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.138.0	President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members who remain in the Chamber, I think it is very relevant to present today the principle of the parliamentary procedure of the Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination Act after what we are seeing and what we are living, what we are seeing in Europe, what we are seeing in the State and what we are seeing in our country. We see as parties that promote masclism, racism, LGBTIphobia achieve protagonists and electoral spaces, condition the political and public agenda. They're movements that today get a lot of media attention. Also in a situation where equality and non-discrimination are questioned in a reactionary way. Moreover, we are seeing an increase in attacks – and we must say with that name: attacks – by racist motives, or by sexual orientation, or by gender identity. Even when these cases are given, we all have very clear that we need to act on the criminal front, under the umbrella of hate crimes – that's hate crimes – these situations are not giving alone, and before there have been many other situations and discrimination crimes. For every attack, for every action the criminal figure of hate crime can take, there are hundreds of discriminations. And that's what we need to address. Failure to act on these discriminations that do not come to the crime of hatred or other criminal figures leaves us to unprotected citizenship and administrations with a hand connected to the scale at the time of acting on these discriminatory actions. An insult to gender discrimination, sexual orientation, ethnic origin, religion, is the first step before an attack. The various biases that may exist in many activities for orientation, appearance, gender or ethnicity also have elements of discrimination in which we must be able to influence. This law gives us and must give us a tool to deal with these discriminations: on the one hand, we make a preventive task that can stop other actions that can have criminal character, all that can be prevented is much better than what is pal·liatiu; on the other hand, we can act at levels of discrimination where the current Criminal Code does not allow it. The principle of the parliamentary procedure of the law, of the preliminary draft law, which we present today is that the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination by reason of religion or belief, capacity, disability, age, ethnic origin, sex or sexual orientation or gender identity, or any other social or personal condition, should be exercised in order to promote the eradication of racism and of any form of persecution by religious, xenophobic, homophobic and any other expression other than against the equality and dignity of persons. We must remember today the first article of the Declaration of Human Rights: "We are all the same. And this is the first element of dignity. The rule establishes obligations for the different socio-economic spheres to guarantee the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination, and defines as violations of these rights direct or indirect discrimination, by association or by mistake, multiple discrimination, denial of reasonable adjustments, settlement, induction, order or instruction to discriminate, reprisals, failure to fulfil positive action measures arising from normative or conventional obligations. Before the arrival in Parliament, this text went through a participatory process where the councils attached to the Generality, such as the Taula for Citizenship and Immigration, the Consell de la Gent Gran de Catalunya, the Consell Nacional LGTBI, the Consell Nacional de los Dones and the Consell Nacional de la Joventut, as well as the entities and the associated world of the country, have intervened, but we are sure that in the parliamentary process of this law we will finish fitting all this will, the better, and this is the work that I am sure that you, together with parliamentary groups, want to pull forward. The law provides for measures to protect against discrimination, with the obligation to apply methods and instruments for the detection of violations of rights, to equal treatment and non-discrimination, as well as the adoption of preventive measures and for the cessation of discriminatory situations. The right to equal treatment and non-discrimination will count on the support of its promotion by the public authorities, which must adopt measures to promote this right, and businesses and other organisations, which can apply economic, commercial, labour and welfare measures. There's a will of transversality around this law. Thus, the project also provides for the establishment of a system of infringements and sanctions that guarantees basic conditions in terms of equal treatment and non-discrimination, which can be developed from the regulation. This rule must be complementary and substitutes around the sanctioning rule set out in Law 11/2014, in order to guarantee the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersexual and to eradicate homophobia, it must complement it, must be complementary tools. The new rule provides for the impulse of a national plan for equal treatment and non-discrimination, a document that determines the axes, strategic lines, objectives and measures to prevent, eliminate and correct all forms of discrimination because of the causes established by the same law. The national plan has a quadrennial character and corresponds to the department competent for reasons of matter its preparation, follow-up and evaluation. Thus, the participation of organisations representing the social interests affected in each of these phases must be guaranteed. The approval of the national plan corresponds to the Government of the Generality. This national plan incorporates, as a matter of priority, the basic principles of non-discrimination, measures aimed at preventing, eliminating and correcting all forms of discrimination, measures of special attention to multiple discrimination, which, for their own natural nature, entail a more severe attack on the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination, measures aimed at information, awareness and training in equal treatment and non-discrimination. The fact that this national plan exists opens up flexibility that allows for broad consensus to be built on the adoption of the law's guiding principles. The principles of non-discrimination, I'm sure they're shared throughout the room. The number of policies emanating from the law can be drawn up every four years, according to the majority of Parliaments. We create a law that has the ability not to be a shirt of eleven, because we are all aware that forms of discrimination can vary and vary over time. The other aspect I want to highlight from the law is the mediator and sanctioner organ. The Government will designate a specific organ for equal treatment and non-discrimination. Among other functions, this organ will resolve requests, act as mediator and work in coordination with the heavyweight syndicate, the Ministry of Public Prosecutions and institutions and public bodies. In concrete terms, the law provides that this organ may give support to those who may have suffered discrimination in the handling of their complaints and complaints, mediate and reconcile between the parties with their consent, namely that they have employment or criminal content; then they go to the bodies of the labor authority or the judicial authority. I believe that this element of mediation is important, because, as I said before, in the response to government control, the only way to truly eradicate any type of discrimination and from the point of view of others is interaction, is knowledge and mutual recognition between people. This organ will also be able to initiate offices, and third-party institutions, investigations into discrimination, outside of criminal nature, and will require power of initiation, inspection, instruction and punishment. It will also promote the adoption of good practice codes in the fight against discrimination. This law is addressed to all public institutions, physical or legal persons of private character, and has a wide scope of application. Thus, among others, it applies to work and labour relations, to the statutory rules of public administration staff, and to professional, cultural, sports, education in law or social, economic or political participation organisations. Also to education, social protection, benefits and social services, civic and social participation, sanitation, access, supply and sub-administration of goods and services to the public, advertising – another important element – and communication media. We need to be able to work together to avoid stigma, to avoid stereotyping. Sanitation, housing, access and stay in establishments or public spaces, immigration and development of inclusive and first-time policies, as well as the formation of adult close-ups, associations and foundations, cooperatives and the social economy, and culture, as cannot be in any other way. In the background, we have to go to a company that has zero tolerance for any discrimination. And that is why I am sure that the parliamentary groups that are part of this Parliament, that the Members and Members who are still present can do an exercise that is always necessary in a preliminary draft of the law: debate, improve it and, what is more important, help us to have a tool that today, 2019, is every time more necessary. If there is an area in which we need consensus, it is in the area of discrimination and equal treatment. If there is one area where it is absolutely imperative that we have the capacity for consensus, it is to be aware that we are a different society, that this diversity is a beneficial element for our society and that we must take care of all citizens because at all times there is a real equal opportunity, there can be no discrimination and equal treatment is inherent in any area of this society. Members and Members, Councillors and Councillors, believe that we are all aware that we are taking steps around elements that were absolutely consensual as to society: freedom around sexual orientation, gender identity, the ability not to treat a person from the stereotype of his or her community, the ability to understand that feminism does not divide, that feminism makes us aware that we are a male society, the ability of many aspects that it does fifteen, have not been thought of for years. And we're not an island, Catalonia is not an island in the world. That's what happens. Pass to the State, and we're seeing it. Pass to Europe with Salvini, with Orbán, with Marine Le Pen, with European elections that will surely bring an increase of the extreme right. It also goes all over the world: we see it in America Llatina, Brazil. We see it in many respects, we are not one, but we are also responsible for generating those instruments that allow us to ensure an element that must be of consensus: equal treatment and non-discrimination. I encourage them that throughout the law's parliamentary process, they can improve it, they can talk to more agents and give us this tool to deal with situations that we want to pull back. Thank you very much, Members of Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.139.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then, as long as no totality papers have been submitted, we will now proceed to open a turn of interventions to fix the positioning of the groups, for a maximum time for each group of two and five minutes, obviously, for the parliamentary subgroups. It has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Naomi's deputy on the street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.140.0	Good afternoon to everyone. Today the Government brings back to us a bill that has already been introduced in the last legislature, which hardly liked anyone, which received much criticism from the collectives, because it is an empty law, and which in the current situation obliges us to ask them many questions. The first question, which could also be addressed to Minister Calvo, is: have you read the Spanish Constitution? Because this Spanish Constitution, if instead of burning some of you read it, you would realize the ridiculousness of presenting this law. This Constitution has not only guaranteed our rights, stopping the coup d'état and preventing Catalonia from becoming a totalitarian regime, but it also guarantees the equality of all Spaniards, without any discrimination on the grounds of birth, race, sex, religion, opinion or any other personal or social condition or circumstance – is article 14. Because you come here and present this law to us as if you had discovered the Mediterranean or garlic soup, but it is that these rights already exist and are contained in other higher laws, such as the Constitution, the Statute of Self-Government – that which they repealed in their transitory laws – the Sports Act, the Basic Statute of the Public Employee, the Organic Law on Religious Freedom, to give some examples. The second question: have they resorted to the Rincón del Vago to rescue this law without having changed a single coma, so that they can say that they have passed something in a legislature where they have not stuck a stick to the water? Because they could have cured him a little bit more, I don't know, change something, paying attention to the recommendations of the entities... This law doesn't have a general anti-discrimination clause, it doesn't take the duty of professionals to intervene, nor does it provide for restorative justice, which is most important, because without restorative justice that repairs human rights we won't transform society. And let's state the nonsense of this law, that the additional and transitional provisions refer to the sanctioning regime of the LGTBI Act, whose decree has not yet been adopted. And we'll talk about it tomorrow at the interpellation. Third question: What's the point? Why do they bring us an empty law, which brings nothing new? Because you don't want to put in a law obligations that you would then have to fulfill. Because if you were really committed to equal treatment, you would have included specific articles that would oblige you to take action to promote culture, tolerance and non-discrimination, you would have put in place specific measures to support victims who would force the administration to give real and effective care, including advice, assistance, especially health and psychological care, and especially social measures to facilitate their recovery. But no, this law doesn't say, it doesn't bring anything new. And I ask you to do the exercise of reading if it is only an article of the law, for example the 17, which speaks of culture, which says so – it is very short –: "The Catalan public administrations must guarantee in the access and enjoyment of culture the absence of any form of discrimination on the grounds provided for by this law; totally agree, but it is that these rights are already contained in other higher laws, and what you have as your obligation is to guarantee those, but not to put them back in writing in a law, but working, for example, on the regulation of the Accessibility Act, which is approved in 2014 and four years later has no regulation. Do they want certain groups to have access to culture? Well, put in the means to make it accessible. Article 6; they speak of occupation and public service. Is equality and non-discrimination guaranteed in Catalonia when Puignero says that October 12 is a working day, and the workers who do not attend the holiday on that day are pointed out? Is non-discrimination guaranteed when Lluís Llach says that officials who do not comply with the Transitional Act will suffer? Is non-discrimination guaranteed when they attack the private home of Judge Llarena and have to be anonymous citizens who clean it up days later, without the Administration having moved a single finger? Do they want to fight discrimination? Put in a useful article and commit to act if someone is discriminated against. But you have not, because you are the first to discriminate. Article 9; they speak of civic and social participation. Is non-discrimination guaranteed when Torra answers that if we do not like the independence celebration of September 11th, let us mount one of us? Do we not have the right of non-independence Catalans to celebrate the feast of our community? Why does the government exclude a part of society? Is civic and social participation guaranteed when a councilman of ours is cut off by walking through Torroella and the mayor of his party municipality says he is proud of what has happened? [[Greetings.]] Is civic and social participation guaranteed when we clean the soil lightly? Is that not hatred and discrimination? [[Greetings.]] Is civic and social participation guaranteed when people from this half of the House are declared ungrateful in municipalities governed by you, or when an expression from this Parliament sends every two by three to the leader of the party most voted in Catalonia back to Cadiz? Today, you are the first to encourage discrimination to a part of society. Will they stop doing that? Do you not realize the exercise of cynicism and hypocrisy involved in presenting this law with its background? Article 10: Education. Here my partner Sonia Sierra would have for a week, but I will be brief, because there are many articles. Attention should only be paid to the study that has been made of language projects in schools, where it has been shown that Spanish is discriminated against. Are you going to do something? Article 13: care for children, adolescents, youth, persons with disabilities and the elderly. Here you have dispatched several risk groups in one article. And as this is where you least do, because we are queued in attention to dependency, with high rates of child poverty, with the Accessibility Act in a drawer, because instead of including an article where the Administration is forced and compromised, what they do is that entities and people have to ensure that there are no discriminatory situations. And the Administration what? You're not gonna do anything? Those who have to ensure that discriminatory situations do not occur are the Administration, and you centrifuge that responsibility towards the citizens and resign from your responsibilities. You are a government that neither governs nor wants to govern. Do you want to do something for your childhood? Deploy the 2010 Children's Act, which is there, without being fully deployed. Do you want to do something for people with disabilities? To implement the Convention on Human Rights for persons with disabilities. Article 16: Media. Why do they not ensure that public television is not teleprocesses, so that Catalans who are not independentists stop being literally expelled from a television that we all pay for? Why do they not ensure that there are no haters on public television constantly insulting constitutionalists, such as Pilar Rahola, Mr. Toni Soler or Jair Domínguez? Do you need a law to do that? Will they do so after this law? Will they stop insulting us on public television? I don't see any articles where they commit to it. Article 17: culture – that article so naïve that I have read before. Will they guarantee access to culture and subsidies to writers and artists using the Spanish language or, as always, will the Catalan culture written in Spanish be discriminated against? Now that the Councillor of Culture is gone, who considers us to be linguistic colonizers, they have the opportunity to prove that they are really against discrimination. We have not tabled an amendment in its entirety because we believe that this law, which does not bring anything new at the moment, could be useful if, as we go through the presentation phase, the work that the Government has not done is done, introducing articles that oblige the Administration to offer comprehensive, real and effective protection to the victims, as well as the right to free legal aid. Personally, I have no hope of a government that has made a president of the Generalitat someone who has written things like "there is a risk that the nation will crumble like a sugar in a glass of milk, tied to the immigration avalanche, the monster of fiscal spolio. And, look, to achieve equality, commitment and perseverance are needed in the defense of the universal principles of people's equality and rejection of gregarious instincts. And that commitment is not found, as I said, in a government that has made a president someone who has also written: "Now look at your country and see the beasts speak again. But they are of another kind: scoundrels, vipers, hyenas, beasts with human form, however, that sip hate. Disturbed, nauseating hatred, as dentures postulates with mold, against all that the tongue represents. They're here, between us... – Yes, yes, you laugh, counselor, it doesn't make me any fun. He continues: "They are here, among us. They disgust any expression of catalanity, it's a sick phobia, there's something Freudian in these beasts, a small patch in their DNA chain. Telita. You, who have made someone like that president, you, who allow and lead many of the discriminations that take place in Catalonia, have no credibility when you talk about equality and non-discrimination. And since it seems that they have copied the law that proposed Movement against Intolerance, which ended up taking to Congress, I will end up quoting its president, Esteban Ibarra, in the introduction of this notebook where he publishes the sketch of the law in which you have been inspired and in which the law that was presented to Congress was also inspired. And it would be good for them to hear it and reflect. Like him, I want a real transformation that closes the way to intolerance, to the old and new racism, to those who believe that there are higher collectives or those who believe that the difference deprives the status of equality in rights or dignity, and that closes the way to fanaticism, fundamentalism or exclusionary nationalism, to all those expressions that push the human being at the time of the Cainite fights. And before you copy anything, read the author's motivations, because it may be that you copy a tool designed to fight you. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.141.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Marta Moreta has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.142.0	Good morning, councillors, councillors, deputies and deputies. As you well know, because the companies have just commented on this before, today we are re-starting the totality debate of the equal treatment and non-discrimination law. We're going back, because last year's legislature ended and the project went down. A law that was introduced at the beginning of 2017 and accepted to be processed by emergency procedure. We were late then, we're still there now. With everything, Members and Members, we worked hard to fill it up and we wanted to make all the appearances that were asked for, as well as the presentation of all the papers proposed for the various parliamentary groups. Since the beginning of the 2018 generation, a year and three months have passed, and today, finally – today – we can start this debate of totality, and indeed we rejoice. Because it's a law that's really very necessary. It starts very late, and is incomplete from the minute or the fourth additional provision of Law 11/2014, to guarantee the rights of lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgenderes, intersexuals and to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia. And why do I say it's incomplete? So, look, the fourth provision of the law, known as the LGTBI, clearly says that the Government, in a term of eight months, must count..., on the date of publication of this law, must transmit to Parliament a draft law of non-discrimination – at the end of eight months. Do you know how much this is? So, no more or less, the law was approved by October 2014 and the new law should have been processed by June 2015. Therefore, the present government is neither more nor less than three years and nine months later, as in many other issues that seem not to give them the importance they deserve. That is to say, almost to round up, four years without an essential law for all the people of Catalonia – essential for all the people of Catalonia. The object of this law is to achieve the right of equal treatment and non-discrimination by reason of sex, nationality, origin, religion, conviction, opinion, age, disability, orientation, sexual identity, physical or mental illness or any other personal or social condition or circumstance. In short, I promote the eradication of all discrimination by reason of some of these causes that I have just cited. And now more than ever, they're going to realize that this law should have been in force for years. The latest events at the centre of minor wards, which curiously the councillor in ugly reference makes a ston, Castelldefels, which suffered various racist attacks on behalf of designs of hoods, which attacked the minor immigrants who were staying in the centre, are intolerable. Or also the incident starring in a man who threatened young children with a hand-to-hand glove, in Canet de Mar, must also be remembered. We can't admit any kind of action of this type, we can't allow it, because many of them have been organized with a clearly xenophobic and racist character. Discriminatory acts that are often associated with hate crimes or hate crimes or violence; forms of intolerance such as racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, sexism, homophobia, transphobia or a wide-ranging etc. For all this is so important that this bill of law..., because we must find all the basic guarantees that allow us to achieve real and effective protection of citizens in order to enjoy human rights and fundamental freedoms without discrimination, ensuring coexistence, social cohesion through the recognition of the person and the dignity of these people. Counselor, it would be very..., more sincere, in fact, not very sincere, but more sincere and more credible than acknowledging that they have not done so well, that they have touched the law uprooted; uprooted in a dungeon, stuck, tell it to themselves; that there have been no gains or mechanisms to pull this law forward. And that shows the fact that there is still no sanctioning decree at this time, which we have so much claimed in this chamber, from Law 11/2014. This government's repeated failure has become a common theme. But we won't stop saying it and let alone normalize it. Unfortunately, we are accustomed to hearing many grandiose speeches, announcements, piladas, speeches full of all, headlines, but reality shines by its absence: approval of few laws, few parliamentary actions that enhance the life of the citizenry. In 2015 the Government made statements to the media of communication and goddess – 2015, eh? –: "The Government approves the Law Project for equal treatment, headlines that were left in this, in headlines, because the deputies and deputies that we were in this chamber did not see a single line, from that front project – nor one. At the beginning of my intervention I explained that this law seeks non-discrimination by reason of sex, nationality, origin, religion... Unfortunately, women suffer discrimination, in many areas, in many sectors, in many social spaces and also here in Parliament. In this room, just over a week ago, the Institutional Declaration in support of the International Day of Donations is now under way. I don't know if you can remember the image of the Bureau of Parliament, this Bureau of Parliament, but in case anyone doesn't remember it, they were all men. We lack much recourse to achieve full equality, of all, of women and men, despite each legislature in this hemisphere we count every time with more women. Today is fifty-nine, but they're seventy-six. They are encouraged, therefore, to work truly on this bill and not to rake it as they have done so far. And I wouldn't want to end up without talking about school bullying that kids and girls suffer for their sexual orientation. Unfortunately, the complaints of this topic occupy one of the first places in the data offered to us by the Observer against Homophobia. We can't put the guard down on this subject. The Socialists and Forward Units Group will work to make it possible for this Parliament to adopt this law which must become the great umbrella for equal treatment and non-discrimination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.143.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú Puem, Ms Susanna Segovia has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.144.0	Well, good morning, deputies, deputies, councillors, councillors, presidency of Parliament. As you all know, and we have not already spoken, the 10th of March a center of minor wards in Castelldefels was the object of two racist attacks by twenty-five encapsulated. At the end of the race, Barcelona's LGTBI centre was attacked in the morning with hate-painting. The same genere Diego Martos suffered a strong homophobic attack on the Barcelona metro where they told him: "You are not a man, you are a faggot. The Observer against Homophobia warned of the thirty-five complaints that have been made to Catalonia in just what we are wearing in 2019, twice as much as last year, and of the alarming number of teenagers who, every time more, are the ones perpetrating these attacks. One_of_each_five people without llar has suffered attacks, most in the presence of witnesses who have done nothing. In fact, it is said that there are not enough complaints registered, because in reality the apophobic is so extensive, that victims normalize the situation and do not report it. Cases are so many that we wouldn't have time to emininate them, because hate crimes and discrimination don't stop increasing, because they're imbuing institutions and because they're viralizing social networks. We have to feel barbaric, as the Electoral Board intended, that it intended to discriminate against people with disabilities, reviewing their vote. Luckily, they seem to be rectifying. Or as the fact that giving a child into adoption, a person without papers, can extend his/her stay in the country and give him/her a little more rights, whenever he/she puts his/her child in the service of the country. As the xenophobic statements of Mr. García Albiol to the Roman gypsy community; as his attempt to ban public celebration of Ramada, or the constant criminalization that makes families who see themselves forced to punch the light or occupy empty floors in order to live with a minimum of dignity. This law, this draft law for equal treatment and non-discrimination is necessary; it is necessary and urgent. But not this law and not this; it's not enough. We're late, as we've already said, but it's more of a short one. What matters is a brave law; a brave law that comes to make structural changes and, above all, that I sanction. And what's presented today isn't. It's not brave enough, it's not strong enough, it doesn't create structural changes to actually reverse a society that discriminates against the most vulnerable. There is a European mandate, in particular there is a report from the Council of Europe, which says that there is a lack of general awareness on the part of the judicial and security authorities. Because as much as we have a constitution that says what you say, it is not true that institutions, neither the Spanish State nor Catalonia, are making policies that really combat discrimination. There is a specific anti-discrimination legislation, which talks about inclusive societies, where it is thought that institutions and policies are the real ones responsible for increasing diversity is perceived as a resource, as an enhancement, as a pride and not as a weakness or as a threat. This same report states that a series of groups experience social exclusion and discrimination, and that this can also contribute to the development of parallel societies, which can be the cause of some of the outbreaks of extremism that we are experiencing. While efforts have been made in terms of public policies to combat racism and discrimination, many EU Member States do not have comprehensive and specific legislation against this issue. The European Commission, in particular, points out that Spain does not have a national law dealing in general with equal treatment and non-discrimination, we insist, however much the Constitution of the Spanish State says. But neither does Catalunya tea. It's been said before, let's be late. And how the government of Torra-Aragonès instead of governing and making policies that vagrant in the defense of diversity and inclusiveness is dedicated to not governing and blocking and doing symbolic actions, so we haven't just recovered the lost time. We have laws; we have laws that are very powerful, that have worked in this Parliament, that have made themselves from consensus. It called for the consent of the parliamentary groups to address these issues. Consent will serve if the laws are decided and if the laws are courageous and if the laws go from words and speeches to policies and facts, to concrete facts. The proposal presented today has also been strongly questioned by entities working for non-discrimination and working against discrimination suffered by vulnerable persons; it is not very strong, it does not establish sanctions. That's why we'll work because this is a brave law; a brave law that I sanction, because there are no issuing sanctioners or it's done with counters. For example, in the framework of equality laws or LGTBI, legislative proposals are generated but then they do not apply, have no resources and do not sanction. It is a law that must promote prevention in education, a law that must not speak only of the absence of discrimination, but must guarantee the promotion and control of equal treatment from the smallest childhood of our society; a law that must contemplate areas of hate crime, related to hate crimes and discrimination, such as now the police and the penitentiary, which are a direct competence of the Administration; a law that goes beyond formal equality and guarantees material and real equality. Through this law we also have to question the privileges and we have to see that discrimination is structural, that aggressions are not done alone. Therefore, without measures that question this structure that sustains inequalities, we will not get there, to material equality. The factors of social vulnerability place inequalities in all people who are not part of the normative imposed by the capitalist and heteropatriarchal system; it is to say, to be outside the patterns imposed by liberal merit means to suffer discrimination. That's why, and we've said it other times too, we don't share these ideas of liberal feminism, because they perpetuate liberal democracy, because they put the rights of some over the rights of most, the most vulnerable. The current model of society in which we live benefits from creating exclusion mechanisms to maintain the privileges of a dominant class. Racism, masculinism, the LGTBifóbia, classism, are expressions linked to the present social order that we live and require profound and structural changes to eradicate them, require courageous legislation, with meaning, that sanction, with resources, with measures that can be applied and with a responsibility, and that really believe, of the government that has to implement them, that prioritizes them and that puts them forward. And this hasn't happened so far, it's not happening. This proposal distributes obligations among the citizenry, but where the Government of the Generality does not establish the protection mechanisms, the measures do not materialise; they share responsibilities, but they do not assume their own responsibilities. It also takes into account people in an irregular situation as a factor of discrimination. It would be a key opportunity to force bodies such as the Mosses and other security bodies not to commit acts of discrimination such as racial identifications, which have been widely denounced by entities such as SOS Racism or Amnesty International. SOS Racisme also denounced that behind the complaints that he is a fan of discrimination are the police bodies. This also has to be faced with this law. And also one important thing: to ensure that this law preserves the sanctioning power of the assemblies. Barcelona has it for the municipal charter, but it must be ensured that the assemblies, those that are closest to the people they have and suffer from these discriminations, have sanctioning power. Because so far we have seen that if you do not exercise it with the strength that would be needed. Municipalism is not about small policies; it is the municipalities that have a direct relationship with the territory and the people, and they must maintain this ability to exercise their full power to fight and combat discrimination. We'll work on it in the law. We think we're late, we think it's short, but we think it can get better and it can get richer, and we'll ask for an extensive participation of entities and movements working on this issue. We will insist on introducing the police and penitentiary. We also propose to complete the recognition of situations of vulnerability in the administrative situation or in the socioeconomic situation or deprivation of liberty. We will propose a specific recognition of the measures to address these discriminations, and in particular those addressed to people over whom there are multiple discriminations. We must go further than punishing individual or individualizable acts of discrimination; we must also eliminate the structural conditions that allow such discrimination. Just as we went out on March 8th on the street demanding a feminism for all, a feminist society, we also want an inclusive society for the hundred, where we all have the same opportunities and ensure above all the right to dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.145.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is the turn, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of the MP Natalia Sánchez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.146.0	Good morning. It is obvious, as has been said, that we think that it could be opportune, in a context of constant growth of LGBTI attacks, to speak of this law; it is opportune to take into account the Police Identification and Ethnic Profile Report in Catalonia, which tells us that racially and with foreign nationality are more up to date for the police than white people or with Spanish passport; it is opportune and necessary to speak of this law after the racist attacks of Canet, Castelldefels and also of New Zealand. To do so, however, it is necessary to assume the patriarchal and capitalist racist system that prevails in our society. But we have serious doubts about the political context in which we are presented or represented by this law and that there is a real will to complete all the processes to have a truly useful law. Maybe we'd be doing a cosmetic debate? Will this serve to punish, for example, the specific discriminations that institutions carry out? We will raise some questions and reflections on the legislative text. The first, which is known to all of you: in the previous parliamentary term, the Eleventh, the CUP - Creed Constituent proposed in the same debate of this law, the one we are talking about today, a proposal of comprehensive law against all forms of hatred and discrimination; a law that we agreed to deal with jointly and which was due after the dissolution of the Parliament by Mariano Rajoy and the allies of 155. In that law, the CUP - Creed Constituent we laid down from where we understand the work against hatred and all forms of discrimination. We share the criteria of the European Commission of Human Rights against Racism and Intolerance. And we understand discrimination as any distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on certain reasons such as race, color, gender, idiom, religion, national or social origin, which has the object or result of nullifying or undermining the recognition, enjoyment or exercise in conditions of equality of human rights and the freedom of speech of all persons. And this has a lot to do with the analysis that we make of the text proposed to us by the counselor, because from the outset we consider that when we talk about discrimination we need to do it from a specific logic, that it takes away the false grounds of neutrality; a focus that in no case is reflected in the text of the Government, we said in its moment. On one side, because the text has no concrete attributions, and that would mean that it is not thought of as an agile instrument, and, therefore, it could have very little incidence, as the previous Members who have spoken have already said, posing, for example, the question of the regulation and the lack of implementation of Law 11/2014. The lack of credibility that awakens your government's initiatives has to do with this. One time. The Observers against Homofòbia recorded during 2018 100_dotze LGTBifòbic incidences, during 2018, said, and during the first quarter of 2019, thirty-nine, twice as much as the first quarter of 2018. And do you know how many sanctions have been applied since the Law passed on homophobia four and a half years ago? Nine, exclusively new sanctions. This is what we mean when we say that we fear that it is so abstract, so little concrete, that it may have little influence. The concepts of discrimination that we described at first, which the CUP defined with much detail in our law, are materialized on the basis of fundamental concepts that are exposed with detention in the text that we have proposed and that we will use to work on this law: racism, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, anti-Egyptism, xenophobia, gender discrimination, feminicides, sensoryism and apophobicism. These are the real names when we talk about discrimination, and we need to talk about that. If the definitions are vague, it is complicated the complaint capacity and, therefore, the ability to repair and justice. Also if we talk about opinions and convictions, if we talk about freedom of expression, that is another of the concepts that is articulated in the law, we cannot spread..., we find that we cannot spread ideas that advocate genera or pedophilia, for example. The expression of supremacist ideas that attack minority groups must not have formal recognition and protection. Freedom of speech can never protect the spread of hate speech and supremacists. It may banish the idea of "extremities are touched, which is built to deny and plug the anti-feixist discourse, preventing you from making a profound critique of the links between feixism, bourgeoisie and capitalism. Therefore, neither the thesis of extremes is valid, because it puts at the same level discriminatory values with values of defence of equality, nor is the thesis of neutral contexts valid. It is necessary to address the discriminations of the concrete thing that allows you to place in a key of oppression and privileges, and this is essential. We will participate in this law, however, as Montse Santolino said in an article published this week in La Directa, we must not tolerate intolerants but not fight fanatics with fanaticism or those who hate with hatred. And how we know the limitations of the institution to generate measures for social transformation [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] It'll be hot to bite a lot of rock...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.147.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.148.0	...and we'll continue to weave anti-fessist alliances on the street like this weekend's head...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.149.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.150.0	... March 23rd, with the demonstration – I end, president – called for Unit against Feixism for a world without racism and feixism. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.151.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is the turn, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of the MP Esperança García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.152.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Do you know why I laugh? Because I read the draft and I say, "Let us, I say, fix ourselves," but if you have developed constitutional law and European law, let us go, almost to perfection. I say almost, huh? It's amazing that you've had a tic of constitutional loyalty and institutional responsibility by bringing this law here, isn't it? But, well, finally, we are faced with this... And I'm also saying this to you with a certain sorrow, because in the end you read this project and you say: "Well, if this is practically Article 14 of the Spanish Constitution, it is an almost perfect reflection, isn't it? The Spaniards are equal before the law without any discrimination on the grounds of birth, race, sex, religion, opinion or any other personal or social condition. If you look at how they develop legislatively, we also see that they comply perfectly with article 9.2 of the Constitution, which says that the public authorities will promote and guarantee equal opportunities between men and women... They also comply with article 35 of the Constitution. Comply with the Statue – a miracle! Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! – Well, well, welcome; welcome, isn't it? , institutional normality and government responsibility. Now, is it necessary? Is this law strictly necessary? I'm not going to tell you it's not necessary. I'm not gonna tell you because I'm not. It is welcome – it is welcome – it is necessary; I do not know if essential, because we already had that guarantee – fixed, a constitution voted in referendum of the real, who supported 90_per_cent of Catalans – we have the general Community framework and we have the specific laws. But, well, that's fine; it's good for you to present it. We have always opted for a general, not segmented regulation, haven't we? And that's why throughout history we've made oppositions to certain laws that dealt with equality basically because they invented so much reality that they unprotected in the end, right? In this case let's see if you don't make us like in the last legislature and in paper we reconvert a law supposedly to protect people who suffer discrimination in a new affront against Spain, because that already did us in the last legislature with the Law on equality between men and women. Let's see – let's see – whether this is serious or simply to mark if a party point. I want to think that yes, because in the end the best way to defend rights, equal opportunities between men, women and different groups is to do so with actions of government, with determination. I am going to make a small criticism: not only with sanctions – not only with sanctions – but also with incentives; doing the far and away from the party revenue next door, right? , because the partisan revenue ends up contaminating; being loyal to the institutions and not using it, as I said before, as an affront, because in the end the data in Catalonia... – sometimes we talk in generic terms but we do not go down to concrete detail, right? – data in Catalonia are worrying, very worrying. The wage gap in Catalonia, according to a report from you, is exactly 23,4_per_cent; we are even above the Spanish average, which is 22,3, which is much the same, eh? The wage gap, in addition, of female workers in Catalonia is still increasing further in cases of lower average wages; that is, the less women earn, the more..., is the wage gap between men and women. We need to promote conciliation. We need to spread co-responsibility, tax subsidies, regulate telework... look, we've done it. When we govern, we raise pensions to 15_per_cent, of the women who had children. We have proposed a plan for nationalization and reconciliation and rationalization of timetables. You can – you can. Commitment. The People's Party is going to have it, because we did it when we ruled. Now, let's see what commitment you have in the paper and whether you are able to use this bill with this magnificent title of ‘fight for equal treatment and non-discrimination to do what you should do as a government. They have a lot of tools, try not to contaminate it, and there they will find us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.153.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Deputy Najat Driuech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.154.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselors. Counselor, counselor, MPs, MPs, the people who are with us today also accompany us to the hemicicle, before starting would want to have a record and condemn the Islamophobic attack of New Zealand and from here to move the whole escalph to their families. Well, today we thank Councilman El Homrani who returned to Parliament this bill that was left pending from the last legislature, and also thank all the Members who worked tirelessly in the text, in a very special way to Montse Palau, who gave it to one of the rapporteurs. Since my group gave it a lot of importance, and that is why I myself, in the name of the Republican Group, asked in the control session about how this bill of law was going on last November. As Councillor El Homrani explained, it is a law that must guarantee the rights of all people, regardless of their condition, and at the same time must generate the necessary instruments that promote positive measures of respect for diversity; a law that seems to give response to all discriminations. The proof of the need for a law of these characteristics is the consensus that awakens in this chamber, the lack of utterances to the totality, which is why today we start the process of this law and with a large and transversal agreement, even though, after hearing the interventions of other companies, it is difficult for me to keep this sentence. Well, in this chamber, we have followed many times pioneers at the time of writing laws in favor of diverse rights, and today we are starting again the way to a new law, of which, I'm not sure, we would end up feeling very proud and, without any doubt, to be referents. The main objective, as you know, is to achieve equal treatment and non-discrimination rights in any case, whether because of religion or belief, ability, disability, age, racial or ethnic origin, sex or sexual orientation, or any other social or personal condition. But not only do we remain on the declaratory side of this right, but this text must be the tool that provides instruments to help us eradicate threats such as racism, Islamophobia or homophobia, which are now elevated by some political forces. With the crisis of values that we are living and having political forces that are present in the elections, they are the flag of the violation of the most fundamental rights, so that we shield ourselves and fight any expression that attempts against the equality and dignity of people. That's why this bill of law can't be here any better. I, for the sake of proving how important this law is, want to set out some examples, some concrete cases that show that we still have a long way to go, to go back like society. Do you remember the case of that woman who was cremated alive in an automatic box? Friends of the defendants, before the court, stated that it was not the first time, that it had been done to other people without a break and that it had been etched with their mobile devices. A company from the same school ensured that poor people were less likely. This, companies and companies, is discrimination. Most of you sure know that within the Ciutadella Park there is a gloriette bearing the name of Sonia Rescalvo, a transsexual woman murdered by a group of neofeixists. This, companies and companies, is also discrimination. And were they on the case of racist aggression by Renfe's security people last year? That's discrimination, too. In 2017, in a pub in the city of Lleida, a group of young people with Down syndrome was denied access and a hotel in Vinaròs cancelled the reservation to a group of the same collection. That's discrimination, too. Mr. Manuel Valls ordered to expel five thousand people from gypsy ethnicity to France. That's discrimination, too. For our streets, he tried to drive the Hazte Oir bus on two occasions, once with the motto against transsexuality and other, against feminism. That's discrimination, too. Are the rights guaranteed to equality, Congresswoman of the Street? I don't think so. These cases are the most dramatic examples, the tip of the iceberg. It's a very trifling simile, but there's no picture of you explaining better all these factors and causes that get stuck and point to other headlines. We need to work to melt the deep iceberg, and with this we put the needle wire to follow it firmly. As I said, there are many other questions that, as in the case of gender inequality, have become a part of our day-to-day, we have normalized, but in reality they are practice of discrimination, as when at my job as a technical occupation I found many companies that were pulling candidates and candidates that fit perfectly into the professional profile required for the fact – and I quote literally – to ‘not have a national name; or those students of the certificate of professionality that the companies did not want to hold as students in practice because, say – and I quote literally – "I do not need neither blacks, nor blacks, nor sweats. And, like these cases, I'd need days and days and I wouldn't just explain everything. This Nadal has put a look in front of us with another example of discrimination, something that seems innocent but that helps to set up a cosmosvisión that is not innocent people: the phenomenon of blackface. Who has never heard expressions like « Runs like a girl, « Looks like a faggot, with this lead, « Aneu made a few gypsies, « Work like a black, « Marc today is a driver, « Toni is a black man? This menu of phrases is part of our daily routine and we serve them without being aware that we help consolidate stereotypes involving discrimination. That's what we're fighting it, too. Therefore, we need to have this law, not just for the reasons I explained to you before, but to bring us closer to European standards. That the law guarantees that administrations cannot be neutral before these discriminations. From now on, they won't be able to look any further. This law, however, does not intend to replace the possible specific laws that need to be made, but it is an umbrella law, the guarantee that it will fight any type of discrimination, and will work to establish the necessary instruments to do so. One of the examples of specific laws that need to be made is the anti-anti-Gypsy law, to which Vice President Aragonès has already committed at the meeting that he made with the different representatives of the Gypsy people in Viladecans. Certainly, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on your recent fatherhood and to say that I am very happy, that I preach by example and you are exercising your right at the bottom of your fatherhood. We promise not to make a sign to announce the vice president's coming back. Finally, I would like to end by saying that our struggle for a fairer society does not end here and that we will continue to work for a more egalitarian, more inclusive society, where no one is left out. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.155.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Finally, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, has the words of MP Saloua Laouaji.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.156.0	Hello, good morning to everyone, president, deputies, deputies, councillor, counselors, workers and workers and entities and guests. It is up to me today to address the position of our group, Together for Catalonia, in relation to the totality debate of the Law Project for equal treatment and non-discrimination. First of all, I thank my parliamentary group for delegating to me this subject, which touched me at the length of my life: at the personal level, as the woman, as the exiled person emigrated, as the person of Amazonian origin, as the person of Muslim tradition, and at the professional level, because I brought many years working on the subject. And on a personal level, I don't have to tell you that I had to wait for 20 years to become a national, and that's a patience and it's discrimination connected to the Foreign Law. At the professional level, I worked for many years at the UNESCO Centre in Catalonia, through research projects, training and awareness-raising in the framework of UNESCO, the European Commission, the Department of Interior, in which I did many trainings to the police units in Catalonia; I coordinated the Stepss project, which is a project linked to police identifications. That means we've done a lot of work and we've been working for many years. And also as a consultant for the Barcelona Assembly, in the march of..., linked to the theme. And with reference to this, I would like to comment that in 2004 UNESCO began to promote an initiative, which I was part of, of its steering committee, which is called the Coalition of Cities against Racism, with the argument of concern that unfortunately there is again the most initial practices of discrimination that humanity has suffered and that has gone through for many years of its history. And it is necessary to put in place the mechanisms, the instruments, the appropriate plans to deal with the situation of hardship and barbarity that will affect us. And it is essential that the issue be addressed and eradicated from the different organs of government and local politics, and not just from civil society. And according to the message of this year by Mrs Audrey Azoulay, the director of UNESCO, with the motto of the International Day of Discrimination, the lady says: "Discrimination continues without being confined to the books of history. This unbridled form of exclusion and intolerance is continuing to manifest in many quarters, such as the sporty lands, some communication media, the street, the schools, the place of work, including in the passes of power. In the following years since the entry into force, 1969, of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, many of the most pernicious racial laws present throughout the world have been eliminated and slavery and apartheid have been abolished. Unfortunately, the infamous facets of discrimination are once again presented before us in the public discourse. For this reason, the theme chosen this year for the celebration of the International Day for the Elimination of Discrimination is to placate and put up with the rise of nationalist populism and extremist supremacist ideologies. That said, on February 8, 2017, it was held in this plenary, already, the debate of totality on the Bill for equal treatment and non-discrimination. And Constable Bassa began her intervention with a phrase: "All human beings are free and equal in dignity and in rights. The phrase assigned to the councillor – which we would like you to have been among us today – is how the first article of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, proclaimed by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 10 December 1948, begins. It's been a few years, but I still need to remember it intensely. And unfortunately, to claim it with vehemence; discriminations, inequalities, continue to be very present in our societies. He also appointed the Constellera Bassa, as the standard mark, the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy, which provided that: "Public powers must promote conditions for the freedom and equality of the individual and of the groups in which they are integrated to be real and effective. That the participation of all people in political, economic, cultural and social life must be facilitated. And that the public authorities must strive for dignity, security, full protection of people, especially the most vulnerable. In this framework the bill was then in place, and in this framework we are again in this parliamentary initiative. The purpose of the rule we are dealing with is to guarantee the right of all persons, regardless of their condition. And to do it, and to achieve it, it takes the participation and compromise of all. Of all those who have participated in the development of the project, of all those who participate in their processing, and of all those who remain compromised and compromised in their application and development. This type of law requires consensus, involvement, common sense, joint and cross-cutting work. A bill of law, in our opinion, very necessary and urgent, but we are aware that it has been delayed. It was already about the same year 2014 and 2015. As a matter of principle, the last legislature passed the bill, the 10th generation of 2017, and it started and followed its processing until the legislature ended with the arbitrary application, unfortunately, of 155 and the call for elections. The whole debate was held, the hearings were held and the papers were presented to the joint. We hope that this time will be the final one and we can count on an indispensable instrument, which we want, and we will work to make it useful and effective, with the aim of eradicating discrimination. It is a standard text that seeks to enforce the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination by reason of religion, belief, creation, capacity, age, cultural or ethnic origin, sex, sexual orientation or any other social or personal condition. And they claim, at the same time, therefore, to put an end to racism, xenophobia, homophobia, anti-Semitism, and Islamophobia, and any other expression that attempts against the equality of persons in their dignity. They intend to repair victims and protect rights, enable their effective exercise, sanction, prevent and prevent conducts or actions against them. The project foresees that as many public authorities as companies or organisations will have to adopt protective measures before possible discrimination; measures to prevent discrimination, and cessation of discriminatory actions. The bill has an integral character, it is a global law, which includes all types of discrimination and will be susceptible to application in all spheres of life. Faced with discrimination, injustice, violations of rights, they cannot be neutral or indifferent. We shouldn't be neutral. No one should be neutral or indifferent, indifference and neutrality are complicity, which translates into discrimination and racism. It is necessary to act against any kind of discrimination, against injustice, against the violation of rights. With this legislative proposal, we want to place Catalonia among the most advanced states in this matter. And as I said, to do so, it's true that we're cheating, but it's also true that what matters, above all, is to do things better and better. As I said, we are aware that we are late, that the law, apart from being approved, must also be developed, must be established a regime of violations, sanctions and a proper regulation. We need a proper and firm standard, which ensures that everyone can develop, live in full, without any limitations or restrictions that discriminate. Discrimination affects self-esteem, dignity and also mental salvation, and does not allow people to have their potential and creative ability, and does not allow them to contribute to social progress. The discriminations are manifest in many ways: imposing limits and obstacles to the enjoyment of the fundamental rights. We must be aware that ignorance, prejudice, stereotypes and rumours are sources that lead us to discrimination and, basically, racism. We cannot say that our society is discriminatory or racist, but neither can we deny that there are many attitudes, views and policies and speeches that are discriminatory and xenophobic, that are to be worked with pedagogy and without demagoguery. We believe that this bill of law is a considerable and indispensable adventure on this path. We cannot allow ourselves to lower our guard in this matter, and less, at this moment when the extreme right and radicalisms of violent ideological and confessional character are coming out forcefully. And, unfortunately, with some inopportune accomplices. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.157.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The debate is over, and here's... [[Marta Vilalta and Torres ask to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Vilalta, why do I ask...? [[Perlongats applause.]] Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.158.0	Yes; in contradiction, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.159.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.160.0	Yes, thank you very much. It's just that something has been said that's not true. Congresswoman Moreta of the PSC said that the Bureau of Parliament is made up of only men, and that's not it. And, therefore, we wanted to make this acclaim. In fact, the Republican Group, of which I am a part, we were the only group of this chamber that made an equal proposal to the Bureau, of two people, of two places close to us, a man and a woman. Some people who were, in the first place, therefore, the current councillor, Alba Vergés ; and currently who forms part of this table is Adriana Delgado, who is precisely low per motherhood, complementing her right..., and exercising her right to be able to make a sea, and at once, compatible with it..., and also dedicate themselves to politics. And, in fact, forget about this, the fact that there is currently no Adriana Delgado at the table today, it is also a masculist view of the institutions of our society, and we want you to be aware of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.161.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Marta Moreta Rovira asks to speak.]] Mrs. Moreta...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.162.0	Excuse me. For contradictions. [[Pause.]] I said that the day he did the reading was all men. I said this, I didn't say another thing, I said: "The day you did the reading was all men. And if you think that the Bureau of Parliament, that it's six men and there's one woman... that's to say, it's a match, it's a mistake.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.163.0	All right. As I said, once the debate is over, and since there are no totality items in this project, we move on to the order of the day. [[Proposal for the Protection of Monumental Olives Law (totality debate)]] [[202-00023/12]] Let's move on to the next point, which is the whole debate on the proposed monumental olive law. In accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar has the words "to present this legislative initiative".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.164.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, councillors, deputies, deputies, olive groves are the millenary tree of saviosa and pau, they are rich and fed by the millennis. The history of olive groves has its roots in time, up to the very origin of agriculture and in the first civilizations of the Mediterranean. All the peoples that have occupied the Mediterranean have brought culture, regality and other technologies to the cultivation of olive oil and olive oil extraction, making it a common product of use and a main commodity in commercial exchanges of all ages. In Catalonia, the use of oil has formed part of the culture of the country of time immemorial; it is neither conceived nor cooked without a generous oil. Also for its environmental and historical characteristics, olive groves have formed part of our conreus and the landscape of our peoples. All these facts have facilitated that in the natural agricultural environment, but also urban, there are groups and specimens of monumental olive trees and olive groves, centennials and millennials. This rich landscape, from my point of view, constitutes an environmental, agricultural, cultural, social, historical and economic heritage, which is also the heritage of Catalonia. And, therefore, of obvious public interest his preservation and his preservation. These olive trees, which respond to these characteristics, are debtors of human effort in their healing and maintenance centuries. Olive trees have been saved from frost, plagues, wars, evens, for almost two thousand years. The Farga de l'Arion, in Ulldecona, is estimated to be more than 1,700 years old. In historical terms, it was planted when the Roman emperor was Constanti I. Therefore, they are living monuments in development and production. Many of these spaces are now in danger for various causes. Dissortedly, in the past decades, Catalan landscapes and agricultural areas have suffered processes of degradation and banalization, as recognized by the Law of Protection, Management and Ordering of Landscape. In order to stop and prevent the degradation and disappearance of this heritage, we believe that mechanisms and planning instruments must be established to ensure that it is properly managed and maintained in the place where it has seen its development, explicitly prohibiting its extraction, transplantation and commercialization of these specimens. In fact, the community... the Government of the Valencian General, has already done so. This law that we present, this proposition of law, do not intend to regulate in a comprehensive manner all the elements that influence the production and transformation of the landscape. We believe that, if this law passes the parliamentary procedure today and finally approves, it will have to be supplemented or articulated with the sectoral laws that have to regulate the landscape impact of urban activities and also the most productive sectoral laws. Therefore, the object of this law is the protection, in its current environment, of these monumental olive groves and the olive groves that acquit them. Monumental olive groves – and we did not mean millennia, because we believe that there are also hundreds of copies that can be preserved, if they are in the measures that the text proposes – are owned by both public and private owners, and the law must recognize them the paper they have held in their preservation, but it must also recognize the paper they have to hold in the future management. And what are we talking about? So we're talking about a little more than five thousand monumental olive groves – millenaries, in this case – inventories all over the territory of Senia; half of these, in Montsia. And precisely this heritage, now approximately five, six_months ago, has been recognized and catalogued for the Organization of the United Nations for Agriculture and Food, FAO, as the important system of world agricultural heritage. Therefore, the FAO already recognizes, thus, the landscapes... in this case, our landscape, which is an aesthetically impressive landscape, I invite, to all the deputies and all the deputies to lie down in the territory of Senia in order to enjoy these trees, as we did months back with Congresswoman Rosa Maria Ibarra. I say again that it recognizes these impressive landscapes, that combine agrarian biodiversity with resilient ecosystems and, more importantly, a value like cultural heritage. Previously there had already been international recognitions, but it was included in the SIPAM by the FAO is the recognition and reward for a joint work of institutions, political institutions, economic, social institutions, the Mancommunate of the Taula del Senia, also of plataforms– the Mancommunate of the Taula del Senia which is formed by 27 Valencian, Catalan and Aragonese municipalities. And it came to this point that I would like to take advantage of to greet Mr. Javier Ferrer, who is Mayor of Traiguera, who is in the region of the Master, who is the President of the Taula del Senia; Mrs. Núria Ventura, who is Mayor of Ulldecona, and who, at his stage as the Member of this Parliament, a partner of escho already spoke to us about the need to preserve these olive groves, right? , of the territory of which she was a Member; also the Mayor of Godall, the Teresa Esmel, who also accompanied us; Mr. Jaume Antich, President of the Association Territories of the Senia, and Mr. Francisco Zapater, who is a tarragonist advocate of the heritage who has published various publications, also, around the defense of olive trees and who has managed to mobilize in few weeks, in few months, more than 98,000 people of arsenal, and when said of arrest I am saying of the world's arrest, that they have signed for the defense of the olive trees and the monumental olive groves. They and they, the people of the territory, the institutions, the pages and the pages, are the protagonists, the ones who, with their work, their coughing, inspired this legislative initiative that the Socialist Group and the Unites per Avançar has brought to Parliament and that today defends its processing, without even patrimonializing the text, but to open a debate, to open the debate, and finally to have a good tool, a good law that preserves this arrival of generations and generations. The present law is structured into twenty-four articles, grouped into four titles and three final dispositions. The first title sets the object of the law, the definitions, as well as the creation of a technical commission for the protection of monumental olive trees and olive trees. The title below regulates promotional actions on monumental olive trees and olive trees and dissemination actions; it is so important to preserve this arrival as being able to divulge it. The third title sets out the prohibitions, sanctions and sanctioning rules that entail the failure to fulfil the obligations that this may end up establishing. And the fourth title regulates an aspect that for us is also fundamental, which is important, which is the regulation financed, in order to guarantee the protection of olive trees and monumental olive groves; it is necessary to establish in the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia subsidies to pages and pages so that they can continue working and producing olive oil, and therefore also guarantee the protection of olive trees. « And why a law of protection? Someone can ask. So, miri, because these trees have left..., or they have to stop being just agricultural, forestry or ornamental trees to become the only elements of a cultural and natural heritage that form living monumental trees; they also form part of our history, our culture and our heritage. Why a protection law, too? So to avoid it, to avoid it, to avoid it, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, which in the later years have occurred, which is produced in all the territory of Senia and which are now concentrated in the part of Catalonia of the conjunct of this territory. More than a thousand olive groves, hundreds, millenaries, in the last few years, have passed from being in the territory that saw them born, grow, produce, to private gardens. Man calculates that at the estate... the think tank of the Benc de Santander there are more than four hundred, five hundred olive trees coming from these territories, millenary olive trees. Therefore, we need a law that avoids espola. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, would like us to be aware that the greatest concentration of monumental olive trees and olive groves on the planet is in the territory of Senia. It is a duet with the history of thousands of men and women who have worked, lived with olive trees, who today this chamber initiates the journeys to protect them, like an arrival that passes from generation to generation. And let us reiterate, in order to finish this intervention, our gratitude and our recognition to the people, to the institutions, to the plataforms, which, over time, have defended and proposed the need to establish protection measures for them. We hope that the legal text that today begins its path in this Parliament will arrive in the form of approved law. We will be grateful for the current generations, but who else will be grateful to us for the future generations. And now, finally, to finish this intervention, what I would ask of the Government of the Government of Catalonia is that while this proposal for law is being processed parliamentaryly, it establishes mechanisms for moratoria of possible olive extractions. MPs, MPs, thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.165.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Then, as long as the totality has been withdrawn, the rest of the parliamentary groups will intervene to express their position. In the first place, has the word for a maximum of two minutes the deputy Francisco Javier Domínguez, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.166.0	Good morning, everyone. First of all, even though the text does not say – the socialist deputy has already introduced it – no one can escape that we are talking about the olive groves of the Senia, per se. First, he wanted to appreciate the task of the Commonwealth of the Taula del Senia, first, to begin to value these olive groves and to believe that they are worth it, when none of them did, to fight for their recognition as of heritage value, to fight to protect these olive groves and the landscape that conform and to create the project of olive groves and millenariats, which transforms a heritage value into a complementary economic activity to the usual agricultural activity, such as visits, museums in the free area, olive groves and millenariats, with an added value, and the tourist promotion of the whole area; for the ability to react in a context of difficulties of the rural world, with a difficult problem of depopulation and of crop yields, which bring about a unique alternative to the country; for the ability to react in a context of the difficulties of the rural world, with a difficult problem of depopulation and of agricultural yields, which provide a single alternative, to the territory, to the territory, to the territory, to the territory. For all this, thank you to all those who made it possible; thank you to the representatives who came to Parliament today, welcome, and thank you for the welcome you gave me personally when I visited the Jaume Antich and Tere Adell more than a year ago. Here we are gathering the fruit of all this dedication, with this purpose of the law. He also wanted to thank the local world, which was not represented here today, and the work of Tarragona's lawyer Paco Zapater, who has collected almost one hundred_ thousand signatures. Thank you very much. In short, we are talking about the fact that I have 4,157 olive trees throughout the territory of the Seine – here they have said five thousand, perhaps we will not fight for this – that they are between the Valencian Community, Aragó and Catalonia, and in Catalonia we have an exceptional concentration in Ulldecona, with more than a thousand monumental olive trees. We are talking about a living heritage and a landscape that is unique in the world. And I am particularly pleased to intervene in this proposal, because in the last parliamentary term we have already tabled a motion for a resolution to put into value this project of olive millenaries, and it was approved unanimously; all groups have taken up this initiative. I already know that it was just a PR, a motion for a resolution of these that the government never makes, but, well, the case is that it was approved unanimously. But still, I've got some rest to do. First, to the lords and lords of the government, of the past and the present. With all the tools you have at your disposal, with all the departments and all the techniques working for you, haven't you had time until now to make a bill? We've been waiting for you now because you're shooting at a bill of law? What's the matter, what's the most important fear? Or is it that the inactivity in which the Generality has settled only causes you to work for the process or things that... what happens to these themes of falling daily, of protecting this landscape? Isn't it important? Yes, we do have local protections; gatherings do what they can, but they're not enough. The Valencian Community has been protected for more than two years, these olive trees, and not here in Catalonia. Therefore, the olive grove and the olive extract have become more intensively on the Catalan side. But I also have a toilet at the Socialist Group. After the resolution that has already been adopted, after other times that this issue has come to Parliament, it is known that more groups are interested in this issue. And whenever it's talking about dialogue and consensus, it's fine, but they present this proposal of law without even talking to any group in this Parliament, without trying to join forces, without looking at complicitys because this proposal is either jointly or at least agreed that it was presented and how it was presented. My group worked with the closed eyes, and it wasn't like that. So, a little dialect, too, in the face of fears that are important for the territory. And for the rest of the groups, I have to tell you that now the questioning phase will begin and that it is worth it that all of us do the necessary things to have a law as best as possible and that it is a really useful tool. And, obviously, a prec to the government that makes it complete and that we can see results, that I didn't stay in a cove. I would like to stop seeing from Tarragona with the gondolas loaded with olives going to France and Germany at the end. And, as I am sure that the vast majority of Members of this House do not know this territory, the majority do not know this landscape, have not gone through the paths that are desired with monumental olive trees, have not gone through the dry summer, with a very harsh climate, have not played the margins or pushing the punches of these olive trees, the majority do not know these living sculptures from a trunk that does not reach you and neither do they know the close relations of the people of Ulldecona, Traiguera, Rosell and all the peoples of the territory of Senia, which form a reality that does not understand borders. I invite you to spend a week in the area, it's worth it, but, if possible, with someone who knows olive trees very well and appreciates them. You may then understand why you need to protect these olive trees. Or at least look at Icíar Bollain's film, The Olive, which is also worth it, to hear the links that people have with the land and with these olive trees. Think that these trees carry seals, lots of seals, that someone has taken care of them, every year, and they've been able to, they've worn them because it's not gelling, they've folded the olives, a generation, another generation, thousands of pages and their families taking care of this heritage. They're a real patrimony he saw that he could preserve his place, they're our patrimony. Can anyone imagine unmounting a medieval tower and planting it in the garden of a restaurant? Or is someone imagining moving the door of a cathedral to make the entrance of a shopping center? So that's what's happening now with the monumental olive groves of the Senia territory. Or I'll go out and I'll get a good one. But before he left, he wanted to make a confession. A couple of years ago I was a municipal technician at the Tarragona Assembly and I allowed it, I tolerated that it is plant in the roundabouts of my city a few olive trees, that I don't know if they reach monumentals or not that they are there. I really feel sorry for myself, because we can enjoy it... at that time I was not conscious, I didn't know the hole that leaves an olive tree that you take from its territory; it leaves a hole that will cheat on being the same, if you manage to do it again. And the truth is that we can enjoy some olive trees in Tarragona, in some roundabouts, but we don't know where they came from, or who their natural surroundings were, or who took care of them, and they've almost lost all their value. And now I want to work with my little piece of sand to explain this and that I don't pass again, if possible, any more. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.167.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, the honourable Member, Yolanda López, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.168.0	Thank you, President. Welcome to the representatives of the Taula del Senia and Mr. Zapater. If Miguel Hernández said in The Last Corner, that the orange knows for a living and that the olive tree knows in time, today we put ourselves in favor of time, of the past time. From when the olive trees, along with the wheat and the vineyard, cemented the first cities of Greece, when an olive crown was a symbol of victory in the Olympic Games, when the oil illuminated the first lamps and our ancestors; but also of the future time, of the time of hope, when a dove gave Noah an olive branch to announce the end of the flood, when Picasso immortalized it as a symbol of peace, when the very olive crown that then symbolized victory now symbolizes fraternity on the flag of the United Nations. The olive tree is not only a tree or a good of cultural interest, the olive tree represents the peoples of the Mediterranean, those who were two_ thousand years ago, those of now and those who will be in two_ thousand years. It therefore represents hope and understanding among such; and we walk a little short of both in the Mediterranean: Spain, Italy, Libya, Syria, Palestine, Morocco. The olive tree is part of the crops of Catalonia, Tarragona, Terres de l'Ebre and the landscape, of the historical and environmental characteristics of our villages and areas such as the Senia or the region of Montsià, contributing to the landscape wealth and to the environmental, natural, agricultural, cultural, social, historical and economic heritage, which makes the protection and conservation of the olive tree have an obvious public interest. That is why, from Catalonia in Comú Puem, we are in favour of this proposal for a law that is so symbolic and at the same time so tangible, because from the very beginning we have been committed to the issue. That's why my partner David Cid and I presented to the Government, at the beginning of the legislature, a battery of questions about it; a few questions with answers from the Government, and especially from Councillor Damià Calvet, which denote the lack of sensitivity and little effort to listen to the voice of the territory, to hear the voice of the people of the area who are telling him that those laws, those regulations that he uses continuously are not working. With regard to the proposal for a law of the SGP, we are pleased to find in this proposal such important issues as point 8 of the second title, where the actions to promote olive trees..., because the best way to ensure the protection of olive trees is to guarantee their economic sustainability. We will not overlook it: olive trees have a vital economic value for their continuity. We are also pleased to find such important points as Articles 18 and 21, with a clear and concise wording of the types of failure and the graduation of the sanction, which we hope will not give rise to any doubt or ambiguous or subjective interpretations. Finally, we would also like to point out that we are pleased that the parties of the Government Junts per Cat i Esquerra Republicana have withdrawn their amendment in its entirety. And we have already announced to the gentlemen and ladies of the Government that we will be vigilant in meeting the deadlines set by the law, because, even if the olive trees are centuries or millennia, not necessarily the processing of the law, of this proposed law, should be so. Because we feel part of the spirit of brotherhood among all peoples, we will support this law and place the other groups to do the same, because we want our grandchildren to see, in the same olive trees that we see now, the same ideas that we see and that have already seen our grandparents and grandmothers; so that they can continue to work the same land and the same trees that are now working and that have already worked our grandparents and grandmothers. If we want a land with a future that continues here after a thousand years, we have nothing but to imitate the olive trees: fraternity, hope, resilience, because, as ends Miguel Hernández: "After love, the earth. / After land, no one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.169.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the Member of the House of Commons has the word Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.170.0	Well, good morning again. Since the CUP - Creed Constituent, we believe that it is essential to have legislation that contemplates the effective protection of Catalan olive trees, of the Sénia olive trees. And we take this awareness and we thank the defence of the territory and of the natural heritage, like Salvem lo Montsià, to whom we thank the persistence in the struggle. We were concerned about the threat to the totality that had been presented by the Government's parliamentary groups, the Republican Left and the Juntes for Catalonia, and also, all that we think – and I will go into detail all the time – that the Law on the Protection of Olives presented by the PSC has better aspects, we are concerned, we are still concerned, despite the fact that it has withdrawn the threat to the totality, which is the realization that the Government can do to give legal response to the constant stealer of the heritage that we are patenting today. The basis of the law that presents us has interesting points, and we have the conviction that in order to really protect the landscape of olive groves it is much more important and to achieve effective protection, that it be much more concrete and detailed in protected elements and prohibited actions. We think that this should be the way, and we think that they worked with the local authorities, with the ecological movements. We don't want to protect a non-olive joint that makes a quasi-museum joint. Therefore, we think that we must not only defend the millenarian trees, the most exceptional, but also the hundred-year-old olive trees that conform to the historical landscape of what has already happened during today's interventions. We also think that right now the most important thing would be to establish a moratorium to stop the splint's acceleration during processing. A good starting point could be the Monumental Tree Heritage Law of the Valencia Country, the Law 4/2006, which protects copies of any tree types that complement at least one of the points indicated in this law that we will also take as reference to those aspects that we consider to be better than the proposal made to us by the PSC. We believe that this law..., we insist, with the work collected with the entities of the territory, we think that the protection of any olive tree of more than three hundred years should be guaranteed, as well as those of a perimeter meter. It should also be envisaged to protect the immediate surroundings of olive trees that fall into the category of protections: dry stone margins, barracks, abancalaments, water pipes, alloys, other olive trees of lower age. The protection of the olive grove, the world's largest crop of olive trees, with the greatest density of olive groves and monuments of the Western Mediterranean, in order not to speak of the whole world, must be protected in its conjunction. I can't help it, I can't, I insist, pretend to make some small museums to make concrete tourist routes that remind us of what there was and don't preserve what we can still save. We believe that it is necessary to punish businesses or private individuals, including owners, who are unable to complete the law, or who are stealing or misrepresenting copies worthy of protection. We also believe that we should devote more effort and resources to the study of olive varieties, their characteristics, the possible improvements to the diet and the study of the plagues that affect them very clearly. We insist on the question of the spoli that is being painted today. We replace the government that so as to avoid what passed to the Valencia Country while dealing with the law that I have cited to protect the trees, not just the olive trees, to the Valencia Country..., which takes into consideration the possibility of making this moratorium. It's essential, we think, and I think that as... if it's true what the president said, that they have environmental awareness, that they want to protect the landscape and the natural heritage, then it's essential to apply, to establish a moratorium to stop the olive grove from stopping the process of processing the law. We believe that all these considerations must be taken into account. We will. And I want to thank again the work done for Salvem lo Montsia, and that will be our task to carry all that work done to the territory, all the criteria for protecting olive trees, which we will be able to carry so that we can improve this law. Because we believe that in this country of the olive grove, where we are grieving, it is necessary to defend this heritage of the Seine in order to continue to excite the life of the past, but also because it is a future. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.171.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In the name of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.172.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, with the relationship at a disadvantage of being the last to talk and share a high percentage of the reflections that have been put here on the table, they will allow me to start with a personal view of the issue. For personal reasons and because I consider that it is one of the towns – each town has its own – the most beautiful in Catalonia, I usually visit very often Horta de Sant Joan. There they have The Parot, a tree, a millenary olive tree. They assure, in Horta de Sant Joan, that it is the oldest of the Iberian Peninsula, but I will not enter into a discussion and less still with the presence of the Mayor of Ulldecona here today. Therefore, it is a matter of making sure that I am not actually affected, but I remember perfectly the first visit I made to Lo Parot the year 1999 with some friends, which was impressive. Not only because you are aware, when you see it, that it is millenarian, but because it is authentic natural monuments that must be protected. Therefore, it is obvious that it is necessary to avoid espola, extraction and that it is absolutely unacceptable and, therefore, it is necessary to regulate it. And in Catalonia, actually, we don't have a regulation like cal, like the one they have in València or the Aragó – which is also better, certainly. But in any case it was time and in this case congratulate the Socialist Party on its initial initiative, above all for its will of dialogue and which may be excruciating and I suppose we will have an opportunity to do so. But as long as we're here, so we see it, so in a first analysis, four faults, in which I suppose after they're able to come to terms. First, we consider that we need to have more presence in the regulation of the owners; this is a first aspect that, in any case, we will already talk about. The second, a more prominent role of the local administration; and I am absolutely convinced that the assemblies will agree. The third, the technical committee that is proposed for protection should, we understand, not only be appointed by the Generalitat but also by the actors I mentioned a while ago. And finally, later on, we understand that it could also be deeper in the dissemination and promotion, because this initial proposal is, we might say, impeccable in the agricultural field, but we think it could be better in the field of promotion. In any case since the People's Party of Catalonia all the collaboration, all the dialog to reach an agreement on this proposal that we see with good eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.173.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Irene Fornós has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.174.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, councillors, deputies, deputies, also want to greet the people of the Lands of the Ebro, the people of the Valencia Country, who today we accompany, and Mr Zapater, impulser of this gathering of signatures to protect the monumental olive trees, which yesterday delivered these 98,000 signatures; welcome and good morning to all. The landscape of our country has the spectre of our forefathers and so on in the Lands of the Ebro and more concretely in Montsia we can see extensions of olive groves and, some of them, millenaries. In our territory it is common to hear about "villares as a conjunct of the conreu de l'olivera, a word that supposedly sees us from ancient Roman agricultural production centres and then also used for Arabs and Visigoths. Olivers, exceptional specimens, some of them, as has been said, declared monumental, which cannot be heard if it is not taken into account that they are part of a traditional culture which has persisted over time and which forms the name of the "Oliver Sea", the largest olive grove of the whole world, which is from the Lands of the Ebro to the Upper Plan of Castelló with more than four or five thousand, as has also been said, specimens considered monumental, are the greatest global concentration of olive trees that can preserve throughout its conjuncture. The sea of olive trees, with more than 36,000 hectares only in Catalonia, also includes numerous exhibitions of human enjoyment such as cassettes, barracks, cocoons, dry stone margins, mills, ramaders paths– known as "ligallos", remains of the ancient Via Augusta... In fact, the majority of olive groves are in the course of what was this Roman way and conform to one of the oldest historical land-use landscapes in the Western Mediterranean, which, we repeat, we think can be preserved throughout its conjunction. All this together olive trees have been the economic engine of the people of the territory, they have assumed the advent, the richness and the development until our days. They are the arrival of our forefathers who remember us as we are, thanks, in part, to the cult of the olive tree. We can't afford to miss an olive tree because it's old, because it produces less. It must be borne in mind that they are heritage, that they set up a landscape, the landscape of our territory, and that they are living, that with their gratitude every year they give us the colita, little or a lot, depending on how the year went, but that the change only requires that we take care of them. Many times we value objects, buildings, when they disappear from their surroundings and find them missing. Then we are aware of the void that they leave to the space and to our memory. The same happens when we take these olive trees: they leave a void in the landscape, disappear the empresa of living beings who are the heritage of our forefathers living from the earth. What was a landscape practically untouched from hundreds of years ago, which gave labor and food to the people, is becoming a source of a speculative business that does not take into account the value and productivity of trees that are hundreds of years old that are staggered and conform to this territory, seeking only the speculative benefit of the immediateness of the money, and leaving a landscape that will take seconds to recover. Since the Republican Group we have made it clear that I need to protect them, not only for what I have just said but also as a way of hearing the territory that went much further there. The Ebre Lands are a biosphere reserve, and that can't be said for any territory, and what we live for is an honor and a gift for which I suppose. And I comment on this because, precisely, one of the things that UNESCO puts in store when it declares a reserve area of the biosphere I think that this sea of olive trees defines it to the cent_per_cent, because the reserves of the biosphere are territories that have the objective of harmonising the conservation of biological and cultural diversity, economic and social development through the relationship of people with nature. They are based on areas in which the integration of the human population and its conservation activities are essential. We must appreciate the work of pages of generations and generations that have cared for and esteemed these trees, who are witnesses to our history and to the once-in-a-lifetime protagonists of this. And I'm at the top of Quico el Célio's song, the Noi and Mut de Ferreries dedicated to olive oil, which says: "Ask the olive tree how many winters it will have experienced, how many wars it has lost, how many men it has kept, but the time has changed, the old and the olive oil. And, as has already been said, we are talking about olive trees like the Farga de l'Arion, dating back to 1704, which means that the year 324 was planted after Crist, in Constantí's time; but also from the Pou, the Nuvis, the Parot d'Horta – which we have already mentioned – or so many hundred olive trees that can be found in the Moleta del Remei, in Ulldecona, or in other populations of this sea of olive trees, some of them also in other parts of our country, such as the Olivera de la Llosa in Cambrils or the Olivera de Torremirona, in Palamós. For what it does to the Law Proposition, presented for the Socialist Party, of protection of monumental olives, we have to say that we do not agree on all points as they have stood, but, if not, we believe that the debate and the inn in the margin of this law will allow, during their time, as well as the appearances of all the actors involved and the different elements that the groups can present..., we believe that it will allow us to find among all the best ways to protect this country and to put an end to it. We also want to express, however, that we are hard aware of the little predisposition of the group proposing to seek a consensus from all the groups and to look at it to work folds, not only because of the fact of presenting it unilaterally, but also because of the fact that it was presented in June and today is the first day that the Socialists Group is addressing us and the rest of the groups to talk to us. To speak of this and for what it does..., that in the different commissions of the departments involved in this legislature has acted as a PR aimed at talking to and opening the debate. We think that if the will is to pull a law to work it among everyone, it's the best option. If that is not the case, we understand that there may be a more recent partyist will, and we are sorry, for our parliamentary group and me in this case as the Jewish Member, who are growing up in my territory; the defence; the first-hand know-how, this landscape of what we are debating today, and which I am particularly interested in protecting. But it also hurts us because we think that the fact of having presented this law in this way, at times, has caused a negative effect on its objective, and it is that, trying to stop a speculatory policy, the fact of this propaganda, in my opinion, partyist, accompanied by photos and publicity to announce it, has caused the later months, especially during the three_months after the announcement of the proposed law for the protection of monumental olive trees, the trucks loaded with olive trees for our careers have been increased. And we don't just say it to ourselves, but to people and entities who promote the protection of these olive trees, which, we think, could have been avoided if we hadn't talked to everyone and worked in a quieter way. I think we all agree that we want to protect them, and from the very government of the Generality, too. And that's why we think it is necessary to seek the maximum involvement of all, of all affected departments, especially of the Department of Territories, which is who has the skills to do with the natural space and the protection of monumental trees, and, if not, if not with this legislative figure proposed by the Socialist Party, aiming to boost and empower other figures that already exist, also taking into account the human and economic possibilities with which they can count. But also from the Council of Culture, which we think will have a very important role; or from the Council of Agriculture, working as they are doing, enhancing the quality of the DOs, and also with this mark of olive oil of millennia. Also with the creation of these banks of land and, of course, with those policies aimed at regeneration, in the generational network, vital, we believe, if we want to continue with the cult and caring and guarding these olive trees. By the end of the day, we're convinced that finding an answer to it, so it's everyone's will. And, as is known, also, as has been said on other occasions and these days, also by our president, President Torra, who expressed it during his visit to the Lands of the Hebrews. In short, let's look at this law as the way and the space that will allow us all to find a new solution. And with the permission of the rest of the Jewish deputies from here, from this room, as I have seen there is much interest in being able to know, and that many of you have already visited, we invite you to come to the lands of the Jews and to know this extraordinary landscape that we have. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.175.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Montserrat Macià has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.176.0	Thank you very much, President. He will advise, advise, deputies, deputies, members of the Taula del Senia, mayors, mayors, friends and family who accompany us from the guest gallery, very welcome and very good midday. Since it cannot be otherwise, from Junts to Catalonia we are convinced of the imperative and urgent need to preserve the monumental olive groves. And we are not convinced, because we are aware of its cultural, historical and symbolic values, because we know its high value as cultural landscape, that landscape that is anthropized, broken down by man's hand, for generations and generations of pages that have pampered and given them form, all configuring, as has already been said, a Bellissim landscape, of those that carry up and all the remorse of the Archadia, and because they phonically to the monumental olive groves they attach the category of cultural heritage. We understand them as ancient monuments, living, witnesses of the historical trajectory of our community, that we have inherited our forefathers and that we must be able to reach future generations in the best conditions. The heritage value we attach to the landscape is high, because among other considerations it is a vital landscape for people, where we recognize and identify ourselves. From all this rich conceptual wealth of heritage, diverse, with meanings full of nuances, the import of the monumental olive groves and olive groves of the territory of the Seine was traced. Yes, I want to protect them, and they don't understand that we haven't yet used any protection figures that we have and that can use municipal and supramunicipal censuses. And so President Torra interpreted it on the 23rd of February in his visit to Montsia, and that is why he committed himself to taking steps to ensure his survival. Cultural heritage, such as the social construction it is, symbolically represents a territory and an identity, understood as the feeling of belonging and relation to a territory. Monumental olive groves symbolically represent a good part of the western Catalan; specifically, Lands of the Ebro and Montsia. Its inhabitants have long been putting them in value, realizing them as symbolically imbued with benefits and as members of their rich cultural and environmental wealth. So it shows the struggle against the spoli that you set up as Save the Montsia, among others, years ago they were making, inventorying them, cataloging them and diphoning them, and putting them in value and preventing them from being transplanted, their lease and transplanted, because, you know... on the Urgell plane we say that old and transplanted tree, the first death that hangs. From here we want to give thanks to the people of the Lands of Ebra and Montsia, and to all those who have been involved in their defense, to transmit love and value to their olive trees and make them available to the whole country. We are clear: we must guarantee the preservation of monumental olive trees. We also need to ensure that as equity resources become an incentive for the economy of the territory and the engine of its local development. To the text that the Socialist Group presented we also read some weakened, for which reason it presented the message to the totality, especially if we take into account that it already has legal instruments that allow its preservation. Some weakness that has to do with our consideration of monumental olive groves as cultural heritage, and therefore of more cross-cutting competence. They bring responsibility to the Department of Territories and Sustainability, but for us, as cultural heritage, this concept of diffuse lines between culture and nature, between cultural well-being, landscape and territories, has to take on board the Department of Culture, with its extensive experience in preservation, as well as its specific legislation that can help the object of the law's proposal, especially as are the different categories of protection, such as BCILs and BCINs. In this cross-cutting, for us, there is also an important role played by the Department of Agriculture, a key player in the production landscape and in the instruments of production. The fruit of olives must be able to become liquid, and more so if we take into account the millions of kilos of oil produced in this region. And, of course, we understand that in promoting and disseminating the cultural values of olive trees there can be a lot of experience from the Catalonia Tourist Agency. In our view, the law must have this more competitive and cross-cutting look. In this sense, we also agree that it would have been good to share and agree on a text in which perhaps everyone would have felt a little more comfortable. We understand that there is also a little bit of an important player in the preservation of olives: the payment, the hands that generation generation until today have taken care of the olives. And you know, if you don't take care of it, you're not a fan. For us, with the inn in the value of monumental olive groves it is essential to take into account the view of the page and the return that this may have from the use as heritage resources of a good that forms part of its particular heritage. And we understand that all legislation affecting the economy of a community of people must be very thoughtful, thoughtful, reasoned, collegiated among the different agents that confluence with it. All in all, we understand that this bill's proposal is an opportunity to move forward and to put in unidirectional sulfide the benefits that, like attraction policy and as an economic development engine, implies cultural heritage. The monumental olive groves must be preserved, and so, clearly, and we must fight against their splendour, which, like all the splendours of cultural heritage, carries an irreversible damage. But we also need to encourage that they can be an economic opportunity for the payment, that the land is hermitage and not suitable for the transformation and exploitation of high yield can become more humble, surely, of economic inputs, and perhaps through, among many others, plans of better production. And this law, with competitive transversality, the consent and the necessary and compulsory participation of all the agents of the territory, can help to find the necessary mechanisms that encourage the pages to continue to gain life and thus ensure their continuity to the territory and, therefore, combat the depopulation that threatens the region. Disappoint the news that in five years the Jew has lost eleven thousand inhabitants. If this trend continues, we will hardly be able to reach the olive groves and olive groves in our own generations. We have an opportunity, but we have to do it in areas, still looking for measures to protect its inhabitants. We have said that cultural heritage is a powerful engine of local development, through cultural tourism or through proactive policies that encourage the settlement of the territory and also help to address the desired imbalance or territorial rebalancing. We have this great responsibility. Only in this way can we be worthy of the efforts of pages and producers to preserve the tradition of a thousand years old, to have taken care of it until today and, of course, to have put a lot of love in its history. Also, this proposal must allow us to move forward in the redefinition of the concept of cultural heritage, which today carries with it meanings, as the monumental olive groves show, where materiality, immateriality, anthropized landscape and nature coincide. We have an obligation to do it right. It'll be complex, you know. We move forward with the law, look for formulas that allow us to protect them, and also protect their landscape, while the law is being processed, through the legal tools that we have at our disposal. We do this, and we listen to the territory that intervenes in this cultural heritage, and we do not accumulate any harder in a region that, like most of the Catalan West, feels windy. Our parliamentary group wants to believe that the survival of monumental olive groves, their persistence in living to the length of the century, is a symbol of the people's willingness to survive to their territories and of the will to persist in our country. I want to end with a fragment of poem that the esteemed Josep Vallverdú dedicated to the olive tree. And, Counselor Borràs, goes for you: "The song of the earth is in the high place. / It is the thread of history and the cry of the future. / Estius d'or and flamingo, corglaçat winters, / the earth does not deceive if you want to estimate. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.177.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. As long as there isn't... yes, Mr. Terrades, ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.178.0	Mr. President, for contradictions and a direct accusation to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.179.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.180.0	Miri, from the point of view of Mrs Fornos, who knows I've got her, to us who's hurting us, huh? It is that the Government of the Generalitat has not submitted a bill of law to be able to discuss it or that it has made a decree law of moratorium to avoid the police. Ah! , and to say more than ever since the proposal of the law was presented there has been no extraction of olive millenary to the land of the Senia. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.181.0	All right. We say that, as long as no papers have been presented to the totality at last in this bill's proposal, it follows its course. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the protection of children and adolescents at school]] [[302-00077/12]] So let's move to the next point of the order of the day. In this case it is the Ministry following the question to the Government on the protection of children and adolescents at school. Presented for the Republican Parliamentary Group, to expose it has the word the deputy Ms Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.182.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselors, well, a few days ago, in the inquiry that we made to Councillor Bargalló, began my intervention saying that institutional silence and, therefore, institutional complicity is another form of violence in general, but above all against minors. We talked about adulthood, we talked about the silence pact that has been around rapes and how the victims can feel, and in the case of the youngest, it is even more accentuated, because of their defencelessness. As we cannot validly give the idea that the school counselor is an alien bomb to the society that surrounds it, the department has decided to set up a plan to combat rapes in the educational sphere. And yes, we do it in plural, because the rapes have different forms of presentation, and with this plan it is intended to attack them all without excuses and in a transversal way. This plan is not going to go from the department to the department, but you talk to the educational community and the entities and associations specialising in the attention of various types of violence are constant, it's an anada and tornada, it's not only from the department, but it's a plan that wants to be complete and that counts with the expert, that I think in public policies it's what we're obliged to do. That doesn't mean – and I think it's important to point it out – that so far you're not doing anything to address this issue or that the faculty has grown up with your arms up to now; nothing more than reality. But what they want with this plan is to review, simplify and unify the different criteria of the current protocols, so that it is more effective. The protocol seeks only and exclusively this: to be a more efficient tool, a better tool to address rapes of all degrees and of all types. And when we say of all the degrees and all the types we talk of rapes between the equals, of rapes of the adult against the minor or the minor against the adult, but we also talk of different types and degrees: from bullying to xenophobia, sexual assimilation or LGBTIphobia. At point 4 of the motion we are talking about creating a territorialized structure because each centre, each student, has a reference person formed to be able to give support and follow up to all the conflicts that exist. But the protocol doesn't want to be based solely on attention, it doesn't want to be just a care protocol, but rather it wants to prevent it. And, as one of the fiercest rapes in our society, and also in our classrooms, is sexual assimilation, the protocol also wants to address a demand that already comes from the moon and that is sexual and emotional education, because we believe that it is indispensable for the good emotional health of our infants and young people and, ultimately, the good health of the society of the future that sex education is part of the curriculum of compulsory schooling. Because what we need in the classrooms, but also in our society, is to make a change of mindset. We don't want to stay in consent, but we just need to be able to talk about pleasure, go a little further. And on this line we have accepted a message from the companies of Catalonia in Comú Pode and then, on the next return, I will talk about it. Finally, the institutional responsibility that accompanies this protocol is not only to end the complicity and the institutional silence with which I have begun my intervention, but we want to be proactive, and in the inquiry of the late Ple we have already commented with the advisor that the department is a person before the complaints and that it will follow up on the cases, because changing the victim or the attacker from the center does not solve the problem of arrest. Finally, with this protocol and this structural change in the approach to rape, what we want is to move forward and protect, to be more effective. We can't put ourselves in denial at hours, and the department wants to put it in the needle. That is why we wanted to bring the motion forward following the inquiry of the last plenary and that this protocol is reinforced from the Parliament of Catalonia and is approved by most and with consensus. And we appreciate the presentations from the proposing groups and the work that has been done since the department with Councillor Bargallo in the lead. And on the next comeback, I'll talk about the papers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.183.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]] On behalf, now, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya In Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mrs Marta Ribas' deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.184.0	Well, good morning. Obviously, we will approve this motion, completely, and we value any step that is being taken in the fight against rapes against children, all kinds of rapes. Obviously, in heat, steps, from the Department of Education, and we have tried with our reviews to profile a little more of the points that have been set up since the department. But let me focus my intervention on making them a deep criticism. The fight against rape and violence against children must be part of an integral – integral strategy. Violence against children and children is a multifaceted problem, with causes at the individual level, at the interpersonal level, in the community, in the same society... Therefore, it is necessary to face many different levels simultaneously. It has many causes, it has many forms, and they are all feedback to each other. It occurs in many contexts; in the educational sphere, but not only. There are very negative consequences in the lives of infants who are victims of these rapes, and there are consequences and costs that are important for the system itself and for our society. So what we don't understand is that today, with the very many evidences of being a society that has a serious problem of rape against childhood, we don't have an integral approach to attack this grave, this problem that we have with our society. We value that it attacks from the Department of Education, but we can't continue to count in the same error. One of these hard mistakes with which we have not addressed this problem in the past few years is that it has been made in departmental islands, and this is an integral issue, it is a problem that would need to address how to govern, as a country, as a society, and to raise the analysis and the idea of an integral analysis of this type precisely would make us see which measures are going to be effective in order to deal with the problem, and not just measures to deal with some of the effects of the problems. One of these effective measures is in this movement: sexual and emotional education from a young age. It's one of the things we've done to them, that I've made it clear that it's from childhood and that it's not just to avoid the hard problems of sexual or masculinist rapes, but also to educate in the positivism of emotional education all about citizenship, and in respect for diversity. But this one is one. There are many more, measures that must be of the essence, of the defence, of the attack of the problem. We cannot continue to raise this issue only in small islands. And this time we are especially frustrated that the perspective has not been integral when good part – if not all – of the departments of this government that would have a special influence on this integral focus are from Esquerra Republicana : Salut, Educació, Afers Socials – childhood, Justicia. The only one... would be Interior. So, this whole perspective, how come they don't put it in our interrogation, how come they didn't put it in our youth? And we're frustrated, because it makes us think that maybe the Education Department is motivated to take action in this sense, maybe for everything that's happened and what's appeared in the communication media respects abuses in the educational sphere... And we have to react, obviously. But, listen, we won't solve anything if we just attack it from Education. This conclusion from his inquiry, but especially from his motion, which we have found flowing – necessary, but flowing – is what has caused us to precisely today in the House to make an inquiry to the Government in order to establish that there is this integral perspective of attacking the rapes which suffer – especially sexual rapes – the children of our country. We value the proposals that are made by Education, but they are short. Counselor, we're short. Jenn Díaz, we've tried to do better than these proposals, and I'm telling you that the main theme for this young man is not what we've made them in the concrete proposals that we've put into this text, but the reason we're going to make them in our own ple from an integral perspective of attacking the sexual rapes that the children of our country suffer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.185.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Martín Eusebio Barra has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.186.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, the Group Republicà presents the Moció on the protection of children and adolescents at school. Cases of violence and abuse in schools not only affect the people directly involved, they not only concern all parents with children of school age, but they also call on all of us, absolutely everyone, as a society, to put all the means at our disposal to avoid them and to repair the damage caused to the victims. But when I read the original text of the motion I was disappointed; something similar to Mrs Marta Ribas happened to me, but, be careful, that when I read the final text, with the accepted amendments of Catalonia in Comú Puem, I was even more disappointed. And I'll explain myself. Counselor, in your speech there were aspects that I have no objection to saying that I thank you. You said: "We must recognize the responsibility that surrounds us and renounce to resort to certain sentences that accuse us of not having done what was necessary to do and take a step further, ask for forgiveness of the victims in the name of the Government, if we have failed at the time to guarantee their safety. It's nice of you, Counselor. You also announced interesting measures and plans that result in the text of the motion either not being picked up or being decaffeinated; disappointing. What happened? Does your parliamentary group not listen to you carefully? Didn't you check the video? , which is recorded, which we can all see again. Of course it could also be that one thing is to make announcements, and another very different, to put them into practice and try to fulfill the..., could be. That the recorded, recorded is, but what is approved is what is presented in writing. And, as I said, my disappointment increased even more when I saw Catalonia's amendments in Comú Puem, because, counselor, you expressly announced the creation – and it has been spoken, here, now, by the interveners – of a territorialized structure of specialized professionals to design prevention plans, teacher training, follow the cases, support the victims... Finally, very interesting. But, with the amendments adopted, this structure will be created or not; it depends... Well, this says the amendment. The amendment says that it will depend on the results of an objective assessment of the reality of these rapes. Ladies and gentlemen of the groups of Catalonia in Comú Puem and Esquerra Republicana, are we no longer aware of enough cases of violence in school? You, Mrs Ribas, just said it, were talking about everything that has happened and has appeared in the media. So what is the point of assessing reality, and then, if so, will we see whether we are putting additional resources in place? What was that about? Like I said, very disappointing. Ciutadans had tabled several amendments, although in the first part of the speech, Mrs Díaz commented on those of Catalonia in Comú Puem, there was also..., she will certainly do so now in the second part. And there were, first, amendments to add time limits to the commitments and they have all accepted them. There were also some of those commitments – we added – that the Councillor made in his intervention, but that were not taken up in the original motion; therefore, none of them. And, thirdly, we added new points that do not accept them either. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. Yeah. There was one concerning the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia on schooling in Spanish. Counselor, truly, I say to him from the heart that I once thanked him, when he said: "Recognize the responsibility that surrounds us and renounce to resort to certain sentences that accuse us of not having done what it was necessary to do. Judgments and judicial decisions are all accepted – all. That legal contortionism so common in the independence world, that of "this I fulfill and this is not, as I see fit, is now to end. Because Mrs Jenn Díaz said this during her speech, she repeated it again today, that, I know, she says it in the context of violence in school, but she said it: "If we make a pact of institutional silence, there will be no one left but to assume that we are accomplices. Gentlemen of the Government of the Generalitat and Mr. Pedro Sánchez, of the PSOE, who I assume will be watching with attention, do not be silent about the breaches of court sentences, regardless of their scope. Do not be complicit in this form of violence, which is institutional silence. And I can't finish without making – oh, what a short time – a review of the initiatives presented by Citizens about this school harassment. The last legislature introduced a bill and it was brought down to us. Amendment to the totality of Junts pel Yes – yes, of your group and of what is now called Junts per Catalunya, in a while we will see. And, this legislature, we have also tabled another bill on this issue. I don't know, will they submit amendments in full? I understand that, with what Mrs Ribas has said about the importance of this issue, you will support it, but I do not know if anyone will refuse to discuss it. Today, Citizens will support all the motion that presents Republican Left... [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.187.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.188.0	... – I finish; very briefly, President – both decaffeinated points and those reinforced with a temporary commitment. But we would like the fight against violence in school to be not just a good speech or a mediocre role.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.189.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.190.0	If you don't, we will when we rule. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.191.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Esther Niubó has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.192.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Counsellor, Members and Members, from the Socialist Group and Units to Advance, we will support this young man, because we understand that he strengthens the protection of children and adolescents at the educational centres before cases of various rapes that can be produced both at schools and at institutes, and that he also shows that there is a wide margin of improvement in this area. It is good that we recognize this need to strengthen protection, which is addressed by the Public Administration and, in concrete terms, by the Government, in order to generate, precisely, confidence in the system and which guarantees a clear and strong response by this one, because it is certain that we are late. And, in fact, in the past, unfortunately, therefore, we have known several difficult cases of settlement, presumably, on the part, even, of teachers, who must have a clear and strong response from the different administrations and, especially, on the part of the educational authority in Catalonia, which is the Department of Education. And for all this, we believe, first, that it is being reviewed, that it is strengthening and establishing clear protocols, so as to improve the response before possible situations of violence. We have still found ourselves – often – with centres that do not know how to act before concrete cases, that do not know what to do, who to inform, how to communicate it to the educational community and that seems to us our responsibility and, therefore, it must be ensured that these protocols exist, that they are clear, that they are known and, therefore, that they are given to know the directions, teaching teams and other members of the educational community. And to ensure, therefore, that all educational centres can do the right thing before these cases, a proper follow-up, resolution and repair of the conflicts that can result from various situations of violence. Hard enough are the facts we often talk about because, more importantly, if you add the load of the disconnection, of discontrol over how to act. And it seems to us well, obviously, therefore, that this review is made of protocols of the hands of specialized entities, of associations that have an accredited experience in the matter. And, secondly, linked to this, improve coordination between educational community, various entities, institutions that adhere to different types of violence that affect children in the educational sphere, to improve these protocols and also to help prevent, detect certain cases of violence. In third place, the formation of the faculty, of teaching staff, not teaching. We understand that this is basic, especially when we talk about cases of abuse, assertively, to identify, to prevent and also to act. And fourthly, we share the need to introduce into curriculum contents affective, sexual education, with a gender perspective, coeducation, to address, precisely, therefore, especially, cases of abuse or male violence, badly, therefore, also grow among the youngest people. And, ultimately, we believe that it is necessary to strengthen, simplify and clarify these existing protocols so that the teaching teams of the centres have more tools to manage these types of situations, which are painful, delicate, and very complex. And, moreover, it is possible to improve this response on the part of the Education Administration, which we understand, therefore, that, as I said, it must be more forceful and that, of course, it must ensure that all the centres make available information to the judicial authorities, if there are indications or evidence, when they exist, and that it must involve that the Government of the Generality is also personified in cases of complaints of sexual rape in the educational sphere, as proposed in a paper by the group of the commons, precisely, in order to gain in transparency and to gain in confidence. And for all this, we will vote in favour. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.193.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.194.0	Thank you, President. Well, we'll give support to the entire youth. Also, we want to point out that there is a lack of explicit or more explicit mention of LGBTIphobia and racism and xenophobia as forms of violence in the school system, which can also be prevented and avoided. We believe that the moment we find ourselves, it would be a more explicit mention of this or, if not, that it is taken into account in the application of the motion. But, look, in a much more specific way, and at the context in which we are at these times, we do have to say that we have found a very explicit mention of sexual abuse by members of the ecclesiastical hierarchy, which is produced in private, concerted and, therefore, paid with public money. And what's even harder to hear, like the centers where this kind of abuse has occurred, today, they're still holding the concert? In this sense, we also want to take advantage of, or to continue to take advantage of, to remind the Government that, in a proper motion, this Parliament approved that the Government would repudiate the Archbishop of Tarragona for the statements that justified this type of abuse, and we still hope that this is produced. And last and last, President, today, the Spanish army has returned to the Teaching Hall. For us, this is an intolerable form of social and cultural violence against children, students and students of our schools. And, today, this also happened with the complicity of the Squad Mosos, who were there to suppress the protest. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.195.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of MP Esperança García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.196.0	Thank you, President. Well, we'll give this young man a lift, but not without mentioning four things that we think are important. Protection of infants from violence in school, of course. But you? And you? What protection did they offer to the children of civilian guards, to the Palau Institute, that Mr. Torra himself went to gather the teachers against giving support to the children, that his parents and their teachers gave them: "Civil guards are beasts who only know how to give sticks? Where was the generality's protection from these minors? Was the protection of the Generalitat against those children's couples who applied for school in Balaguer castle and who associations that you came from the Government of the Generalitat and who, at last, finance with subsidies, put up demonstrations against these minors? Where are the protections? Where is the generality's protection against these minors? Because I remember them – and that's what I say positively to the counselor – that you, a few months ago, were sentenced to court, because a minor was assigned throughout the ward, and the Attorney General knows what he said? That the parents had invented this whole thing. That's what you did from the generality. The young man? Yeah. Now, show it with facts, not with words and not only with a young man who is a generalist, who has good intentions, but that the acts say all the contrary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.197.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, it is now the turn of MP Imma Gallardo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.198.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, advise, deputies and deputies, parliamentary staff and the public that you accompany us, I recognize that when I read the title of the motion that today brings us to the plenary the Republic Group I thought that all children and adolescents must be protected, that it was absolutely necessary to feel protected throughout the country and not just to the educational centres. But I quickly appreciated that it is precisely at the educational centres where we can continue to focus more firmly, not just because they are one of the areas where many living areas pass, as I like to call them, but precisely for the excellent opportunities for intervention that they offer. It is clear that, in view of the difficult problem that has arisen these past few days of witnesses who have suffered sexual abuse over the years, it is necessary to continue to do this work of detection and attention to victims, but it is also very important – I would say, very essential – to continue and improve the work of prevention and information both to infants and adolescents as to the professionals who work there. So, from the Junta Group for Catalonia, we will support all the points of this motion and celebrate that the Government of the Government of Catalonia is set as a priority objective the protection of children and adolescents at the educational centres. We fully agree with points 1, 2, 3 and 6, and we also welcome the contributions made by some of the parliamentary groups, which certainly improve the final text. And thank the good work that Deputy Díaz of the Republic Group has done to respect. For what it does at point 4, from our parliamentary group, we agree to activate this talent and reactivate the most up-to-date and up-to-date formation, but we are not quite clear whether it is necessary to create a territorial structure, formed by specialized professionals, which gives support to the centres, or reinforces the current structures, with this figure of the specialized professional, or that it is in the centre itself where there is this specialized teaching staff who do these tasks. In any case, what we agree on is that I can start it as soon as possible. In the reference to point 5, we also fully agree that we should continue to work on sexual and emotional education, and allow me to add emotional education to it. Of course, I should like to review it and update it, but from Junts to Catalonia, we think it would be a good thing that, from the department, the need to extend it to the second cycle of childhood education is discussed, they understand that prevention is absolutely necessary to start it from a good start. If we can start at the earliest ages, where the children are more free of harm, it would be much easier to continue with this work in the first place, and, if it is more appropriate to reinforce it at the curriculum level, it also seems uncertain to us. Likewise, we think that it is not only to protect children and adolescents from sexual abuse – said Diaz – but also bullying, cyber-assetting, xenophobic, male-based violence, any type of violence; but also to talk about violence as a first response and, even so, about violence towards one. We consider that at present the level of curriculum contents in general is very acceptable, but every time we find ourselves with teenagers and young people who need to be listened to and who also need to verbalize and express what they carry. And unfortunately, too often this expression comes up with a lot of violence and a lot of rage. And that's why we think it would be good to consider promoting spaces of reflection in the classrooms, especially in secondary schools, perhaps in the same tutorials, with better trained and informed tutors and tutors. Some areas of reflection where we can talk about the identification and management of emotions, but also about the much-needed and rich values of communication and social relations, and also about the harms, the management of conflicts and mediation, the much-needed coexistence in whatever environment, the difficulties, but also the resilience, the ability to get out - in that we have humans to face worse situations, and also, why not? , facilitate them self-knowledge tools, such as meditation, relaxation or breathing work, that allow them to deal differently with the various difficulties that are found at the length of life. Says Vigotsky: "If we give students the opportunity to talk to others, we allow them to think for themselves. And that applies to any age. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.199.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To pronounce on the papers, Mrs Jenn Díaz has the words. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.200.0	Thank you, President. Well, on the papers, we accepted the papers from Catalonian companies in Comú Podemos, because we considered that they were profiling and matifying the idea of the protocol. The first point, because it seemed good to make an objective assessment. Mr. Ibarra believes that making a planned diagnosis to know where we're going is an excuse, but we thought it was very important to know the importance of this protocol well before and to know where we're going. At point 5 we added the gender perspective, which in fact we thought should apply to all public policies. We also accepted the end of the point, because language is important and, as it did on the first turn, beginning to talk about pleasure and not so much consent seems to me that it is the focus that should give it. Despite this, I would like to insist that the approach to rape, despite the fact that sexual rape is very much a concern for us, will not end only in the hardest and most explicit and that the protocol wants to deal with it further. Well, about Mr. Ibarra's disappointment, it was also a disappointment for me, especially the addition of the two points. We have accepted those items that refer to the calendar, because we already contemplated them, these terms. The rest of the items have not been accepted, because we will not tolerate that they want to make a partisan and ideological of this protocol, that wants to be serious, that wants to address the rapes with respect. Talking about living together is trying to distort the debate. Infuse two points to keep on talking about the TSJ, from schooling in castle, steps for the legs of the schools which language is spoken there or of the subordinate pregnancy..., the advances that, although we reject his dream, yes, and so much, everyone will respect the children born by subordinate pregnancy, we will always respect the infants, but those who want to market the use of women, who want to ovate the bones of women, and not of all women, but of the most vulnerable..., the children yes, we will respect them; those who defend the « ovariness of the body of women, no. To finish, very quickly, do you know what Palau's children want? Let's get 'em out of here. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.201.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. Can we vote on the joint motion? Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Marta Ribas Frías asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.202.0	For direct allusions, if you could have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.203.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.204.0	Yeah. Mr. Barra, it's not that we eased the fact of creating a territorialized structure, but that you, who are so often so demanding, right? – or so they say – as public money is spent on the effectiveness of public policies – you speak of ‘xiringuites and eliminating them' – I think you should agree that, if we make a territorial structure designed to train and help professionals, it might be worth assessing which is the incidence of rapes, because it might not only be necessary to donate services to teaching professionals...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.205.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.206.0	...but also the one of salvation, also the one of lleure... Let's evaluate it, value it, and believe it effectively.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.207.0	Congresswoman, it's... thank you. [[Martin Eusebio Barra López asks to speak.]] We've already understood, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.208.0	For allusions. And just, Mrs. Jenn Díaz... Congressman Barra. It's a very common mistake to call me Ibarra ; but no, just Barra. It's a... Woe, then, I simply do not have the literal text here now, but it is that the councillor announced the creation of that structure, and what you and the Republican Group put forward is: "According to the results, it will be created or not. That's what it says. Although the councillor states with his head that it will be created in any case, and I thank the councillor as well, that is not what he puts in the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.209.0	Well, we're going to vote for the senate. No vote has been requested on each point. Therefore, we vote on the joint motion. The vote begins. The Ministry on the Protection of Children and Adolescents at School has been unanimously approved: 123 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] We suspend the session until four o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you very much. [[The session is suspended at a quarter of three in the late six minutes and resumed at four and five minutes. He chairs the Speaker of Parliament, accompanied by the First Vice-President and the First, Second and Third Secretaries. Attend to the table the major and the Mercè Arderiu and Usart.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.210.0	Good afternoon. [[Question to the Government about its inopportunity]] [[300-00099/12]] Let us resume the plenary with the fifth item of the agenda, which is the question to the Government about its inopportunity, presented by the Socialist and Unites Parliamentary Group for Progress. The honourable Member Mrs Eva Granados explains the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.211.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, councillors, deputies and deputies..., councillors, councillors Bosch, may surprise them with the title of the inquiry, perhaps they find it a little blunt, coming from our parliamentary group : « the inopportunity of the Government. So look, for us, it's very simple and I hardly have to say this: we have a government..., you are a government that doesn't rule. « Government, of the Latin verb govern, means to pilot a ship, referring to exercising control and direction over something, and, in our case, according to Article 68 of the Statute of Autonomy, about our self-government and about the Administration of the Generality. I « inoperative, according to the Catalan Institute of Studies, means that it does not give results, that it is ineffective. President Tora was invested on May 14th of last year; the first government was hard to finish on June 2nd, new months have passed, and unfortunately today we can certify that the government does not control, nor pilot, nor direct, and that, therefore, it does not give results and that it is ineffective, and therefore that we are before a government that does not govern. And we say badly because we need, Catalonia needs a consistent government, an effective government, a government that is for the most part. And I hope that, in this inquiry, counsel, in our arguments; but it is that we are watching with concern the consequences of his Government for citizenship: we see paralysis, we see much gesticulation, but above all what we see is the oblivion of general interest. I want, in these minutes that I have, to make a rest for different elements to justify this statement. First of all, I want to talk about the action or, sooner or later, the government's inaction. Nine months have passed, we have thirteen councils, forty secretariats, more than eighty directorates-general. Obviously we have a lot, a lot of political direction. And every Tuesday my group looks closely at government agreements; if we haven't been able to see the press wheel, we see it later, and we analyze all the material that for us is our material to control the government. Well, quantitatively, his government has made 268 agreements; 268 government agreements have been issued to us in these new months. And I ask you, counselor, what do you think you deserve? What do you think? Are you proud? Seeing the CEO's data, it's obvious that Catalans are not proud. But, well, we wanted to compare, in the same period of time, with another territory, with another government similar to ours. And we compared the government agreements that the Government of Catalonia has generated with the Government of the Valencian Country. And in the same period of time the government of Ximo Puig has made 601 governing agreements. That is to say, the Government of Catalonia is doing half as much government as a territory... that a government that is similar to us, that is very close to us and that also has the same financing difficulties as us. That is to say, in quantitative terms, you do half of what the Valencian Government does. But, well, we could say that quantitatively, so, it's not a way to value things. And we also wanted to do a qualitative analysis. And, qualitatively, then, counsel, we have to worry about everything, because, while the Socialist Government of Ximo Puig has approved a new Valencian law that shields social services and that binds citizens' rights, you have not agreed that we are talking about citizenship rights in the new months they have ruled; while the Socialist Government of Ximo Puig has approved a decree that removes the pharmaceutical co-payment, we are still waiting for the euro by receiving that we have paid the Catalans many years ago– from this, in the government agreements we have not found anything else, you do not – and, while the Government of Ximo Puig and also the Government of Francina Armengol, to Balears, in this Parliament, have given you a 10th-day discharge of taxes. The Government does not do so; the Government does not absolutely do anything about issues that are essential. We see autonomous governments moving forward, making progress in their citizenship, while you continue to stand still. And we believe that Catalonia can advance to the same pace as Valencia, the Balearic Islands, and we can even get to more. Do you think we can afford this inopportunity for much longer, counselor? Look, we've reviewed all your government agreements. And we have to say that we congratulate ourselves on some of those who have arrived – the opening of ambulances, oppositions of public workers... – but, counselor, we have made a type of reading the following verbs, verbs that appear every Tuesday: "the government pushes, but it does not do; "the government strengthens its commitment – we will not make judgments of intent, whether they have commitments or not – but it does not do; "the government analyses, but the government does not do so. I ask myself: « The government, when does it execute? What the citizens need is that their government executes; it's a proper verb, escaient. In fact, it is an obligatory verb for execution: to execute political actions, to execute public policies. We need them to realize their impulses, their gatherings, their analysis. We want them to stop saying it and start doing it. I, look, the most spectacular of all. In a government, you did not make an agreement that is said: "The government analyses the content of the preliminary draft assumptions; the government analyses the content of the preliminary draft assumptions, but the government does not approve them. I mean, this, for us, is the most important of his desires, his inopportunity. We need a government that goes to the speed that the economy goes to, to redistribute the wealth that is generated; we need a government that goes to the speed of workers, of autonomists, of universities, and above all that accompanies the most needed. And let's continue with the data, let's bring more arguments; let's talk about Parliament. Counselor, attenu 'un moment, I give you a xifra: 321, 321 times are the times that Members and Members in this Parliament have pressed the voting button on a motion for a resolution or on a motion, 321; 106, 106 are the times your Government has lost votes. Whose face can they look at the citizenry and say that they have the support of this Parliament, whose face they can look at the citizenry and say that they are the Government of Catalonia, if the representatives of the people of Catalonia do not collect their actions, if the Government of the Parliament are told, the concrete questions that you do not do? And that's the next topic I wanted to comment on. It is obvious that you are not important fears. Mr. Eduard Pujol, who we were talking about, said that we were distracted by things that are not essential, when we were talking about waiting lists, or Councilwoman Artadi, who said that she didn't come here to talk about trains. Clearly, however, if Parliament urges, the government needs to do it. And here, Parliament urges and the government doesn't do it. They have some examples. We're extraordinarily helpful to social spending, for the people who need it the most. So here it is approved, but you don't. Another example – today Miquel Iceta said, in his question – was zero-three. You give money to the joints, you need to recoup yourself with the financing of children's education. Parliament urges the Government, the Government does not. The Parliament has urged the Government many times to retail a 30_per_cent of university fees; the Parliament urges, the Government does not do. And that's definitely hurting the citizenry, because its government, compared to other territories, is making us go back. In other territories of Espanya they are advancing, in equal opportunities, they are reducing inequalities. And the fact that you're in the government is that Catalonia went straight back. And we need to improve the quality of life of Catalans. We've looked at the warrants, the ones that you don't want to complete and don't complete, but I also have a minute to talk to you about your promises, things that you solemnly have said are very important and that they last. There are two fears that are essential for us. The first one. These weeks we have known the data of homophobic attacks that are occurring and how they are multiplying. Well, therefore, President Torra at the investiture session said that immediately he would pull forward the deployment of the Law of Equalities, of the LGTBI. And they didn't! A law that's from 2014, they haven't done it yet. And another topic that is also very important. In the matter of childhood, we have made agreements, pacts, all the votes that they want, and we are still waiting for some concrete measure, which directly completes with the mandates. Counselor, if they don't send laws to Parliament, if they don't execute what they say they do, if they don't have a majority and they don't obey parliamentary mandates, if they don't fulfill their commitments and they don't want to carry the assumptions, if they don't rule, why don't they call elections? Because we need, Catalonia needs to recover the lost time; we need assumptions; we need to pay the debt to the functioning and to the assemblies; we need to have public services without waiting lists; we need adequate support for a school, which we want to include; we need to make industrial policy; we need a government...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.212.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.213.0	...that governments, counselor. And now I'm waiting for your answers. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.214.0	To answer the question, the Counsellor of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Alfred Bosch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.215.0	President, Members, Members..., Mrs Granados, I thank you for this inquiry, because we do not have so many occasions in this chamber to explain the things we do from the government – more times than we would like to have – and you bring it to me today. And I hope that you will give it to me with the modern and not ancient sense of the word 'interpellation': interpellation, interpellation, interpellum, which I wanted to say 'obstruct', 'block', 'interrupt. I imagine that, therefore, it raises it from the most constructive point of view, which is what we use today, to ask, to ask, to ask, isn't it? , to "take action to improve. And so, how do I see this spirit built, so, I tell you, I love to answer your question. I also say that I am delighted with the successes of my friend Ximo Puig, in Valencia, and also of my friend Francina Armengol, in the Balearic Islands. And I'm so glad, I'm sure they'll be glad, too, about the success of government action here in Catalonia, as we've said more than once. Look, the government has approved standards with a law rank since this government was formed– all that's said, that I only carry three months, to the government, and also, all that's said, that's no excuse for not speaking on behalf of the government, huh? , that I do not speak in my own name – well, therefore, seven bills of law, of which..., for example, for equal treatment, for non-discrimination – some of the issues that you raised, precisely – the Public Health Agency..., and also twelve decrees of law, among others for the increase in remuneration of 2018 – there was also an intervention, an inquiry that they made to me, also, on behalf of the Group of Citizens did not win and I challenged them in terms very similar to the fact that the context to you with many days of difference –; of these twelve decrees of law have already arrived at the chamber and they have been validated by Parliament and, therefore, function, and even in the first instance, in the first instance, as well as in the first instance. This morning the theme of climate change, sustainability was raised; I think we need to do a lot of work in this sense, and so we are making it. Or on the vehicles..., well, the emissions also – I'm sorry – of the mechanical traction vehicles. Actions planned and girls already this year. For example, in education: Pact against School Segregation – was approved this week, sure they remember –; also, therefore, the incorporation of two hundred new professionals to give response to the inclusive school; the announcement of twenty-five new school institutes for the coming year, a model of success also, in which we want to deepen and expand, to the extent possible. In health care, for example, 100_million euros more in primary care at the Catalan Institute of Health due to overload, and also with the intention of improving the service, which you know sometimes, so yes, it is a service with a lot of demand, a lot of demand, and therefore we are obliged to improve it, and that is what we are doing. Posada en marxa d'11 nous centres d'assistência primaria, 11; two nous CUAP, this new formula already half way between the CAP and the referral hospital center; a new consultant, and great renewal and expansion of two new CAPs and one consultant. At the same time, creation of the Observers against Masclist Violence, which, unfortunately, is much needed; Program of insertion of vulnerable persons in irregular situations and family charges, is also necessary; serve as a first-time gathering, obliging to all municipalities of Catalonia; boost of employment policies to maintain taxes of reduction of the year-on-year atrium for over 5_per_cent– reduction of the year–; approved the offer for the year 2019 of 250 places of the Generality Bomber Cos, you already know that it was time that this was necessary, and we are moving forward. And apart from all this, let me remind you of a detail, and it is that this government, of course, was formed nine months ago, but you must perfectly remember that there was an imposed paralysis of seven months, during the implementation of Article 155, during which, therefore, the previous legitimate government had been suspected by the action of the Spanish State, and concretely approval of it in the Spanish Senate of 155. And I suppose you didn't miss out on the detail that you, therefore, agreed with the application of Article 155, and even worked together in your writing through people of the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol, and also some person from the Socialists of Catalonia, who I understand you represent in this chamber. So, let's say that there is this paralysis here, that it was very difficult to re-engineer, because it's not easy for a time to have the government to reorganize it and put it back in shape, so, in a way similar to how the government worked before the break of 155. You are complicit in this seven-month paralysis, you agreed, you applauded it and you worked together in your writing and application, and I therefore believe that it is also necessary to recognize that a certain responsibility in the difficulties of the new angel of this government that we have now, this government that I myself represent here with all modesty, therefore, you must have some responsibility. On the other hand, therefore, you know that the government's action also depends to a good extent on the assumptions. You know perfectly well, you know at these times maybe better than anyone else, or at least as well as ourselves. And, of course, we, for what he does to the Spanish State, so some assumptions that there could be more investment in Catalonia, you say that they couldn't approve them because we didn't want them, but I remember them – and Joan Tardà said it more than once – that we didn't get a call for it, huh? , and hold conversations about the assumptions of the Encany State. Many statements, many press statements, but to what extent we sit down to talk and keep conversations, so, according to the same carrier Tardà, in Madrid, this did not happen, so... Nor in the assumptions here, of the Government of Catalonia. We have asked you once to tell us about the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia, and the moment we proposed them, therefore, here you did not make any gestures. You say that the government only analyzes the assumptions – it said it textually before, if I'm not mistaken – only analyzes the assumptions but does not approve them. And I say to them: if you don't approve them in part, it's because the PSC doesn't do one thing or the other, it's to say, the PSC doesn't approve them or even analyze them, because, listen, what would be very good is that you're looking at it in detail and saying to us, "Look, we like this, we're willing to vote for it, and we're not, and we're not willing to vote for it. They are social assumptions, they are the most social assumptions that have occurred until now – yes, ma'am – and as these assumptions are not approved because there are groups in this chamber, among others, who do not want to or talk to us, so there are many of the things that this government has planned and cannot do. And when you're talking about inaction, so I'm telling you, man, some responsibility must lie in this inaction that you say, that you add, when you don't sit on the table so as to negotiate the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia. So, listen, I'd say we don't lose the hope of being able to talk about these assumptions– and you're not aware– and if you want to, so, look, just laying down what my department is, in cooperation with development, we could increase by 25_per_cent the expenditure we do if we have assumptions, huh? And so also, in transparency, and also in participation, and also in so many parties of other departments, which could be increased. And that can hardly be done, because if there are no assumptions, then you already know that new investments are very complicated, huh? And, therefore, I would ask you that in the same way as you ask us – in the modern sense of the word, not in the Latin, ancient sense, to block or interrupt – as you ask us in the modern sense of the word, so that we can sit on the table and talk seriously about seeing how we can agree on some of the assumptions of the Generality of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.216.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer is the return now, again, of the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.217.0	Mr. Bosch, whenever we've been called to a meeting to talk about assumptions the PSC has followed. And that I know we're not in government. Because the government approves the assumptions only has to want to approve them and you have not approved them. The Law of the Government says that it is its obligation, Article 26 of the Law of the Government: "The Government must draw up and approve the draft assumptions of the Generality and execute them approved by Parliament. This is his obligation. The government has to approve of the presuppositions and come here to Parliament for approval. But do you know what's going on? And it's a shame, but Catalonia has a cowardly government. You're cowards because you don't do your job. Your obligation, if you have assumptions stuck to the web page, meet the Executive Board, approve them and come here and present them and negotiate them. Do you know what's going on? That this is his obligation, and you don't want to fulfill his obligation. That's why we say we have a government that doesn't rule. Because then two things can happen when they arrive here with the assumptions. They may not approve them, they may not find support and then they must decide to do with Pedro Sánchez, like the President of the Government of Spain, who, before the refusal of the majority of the Congress of Deputies, has decided to call elections. Because if you don't have the support of the legislative chamber... and you don't have the support of the representatives, of the Catalan electorate, you have the obligation to carry the assumptions. They don't have the majority, they can decide, a question of trust; President Puigdemont did it and he did it in this chamber last parliamentary term. Decide, get the assumptions, bring them here, and we'll see what's going on. And then they decide, maybe they'll have to call elections here in Catalonia. Or maybe they do a question of trust, offer a plan of government that you are attracted to some group and have the majority. But you don't have the majority, counselor. And another topic, I've been two minutes – two minutes – without saying a word of the process – or a word. You've been talking to us for two minutes – I've counted it – for two minutes. But he knows what's going on, that I've compared equal periods. We have compared similar governments with equal periods and we have compared that it makes a government of the Valencia Country or the Balearic Islands with what the Government of the Government of Catalonia does. Operating governments, autonomous governments, governments with difficulty in financing public services, the three. And what happens, that they produce half; that they agree not to end it; that they come here and lose votes, one_of_each_three, counselor– one_of_each_three. And, therefore, you can't continue to sit here with the government cadres passing by who spends a year in office. It's not legitimate, that. They have to decide, they have to move. They will have to decide to carry the assumptions and, if they lose them, call elections or question of trust. There's no more. Because he knows what's going on, that they're carrying you many years eating and while you're handling Catalans losing. ECAS, this week, has produced a report, and he says again: the lack of transformative policies in social policies, and the disinvestment, are missing 1,800_million from the Catalan public service. These are the consequences, and that means that inequalities are growing in our country. This is the situation. And there are many laws that are about to be deployed, and they come here and we vote for them, and we all agree, but at the time of truth, you don't do it. We have a government that does absolutely nothing. He passed the same agreements he had said the other day to the other question, but it is that we believe that they cannot justify maintaining the government if we have no assumptions. Catalonia is worth a better government than we have; Catalonia needs a government that pulls forward, that follows the speed that is following other territories. If we go through a history of life of any person born during these years we can find: that you do not have access to the children's school so that you do not pay for the meetings; that you do not have an inclusive school because you do not deploy the inclusive school decree; that university taxes are the dearest of all Spain; that surgical waiting lists continue to rise; that we have the highest dependency list of all Spain. You are harmful to the quality of life of Catalans. I, therefore, must be valiant. They must abandon this cowardice in which they are installed and decide to carry the assumptions or call elections. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.218.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, for the final reply, the counselor has the word for five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.219.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Mrs. Granados, what do you want? What do we approve of the assumptions because then you can drop them here in the chamber? [[Widow's remorse.]] Is that what you want? So really – really – that's what it looks like, isn't it? It is what it seems, that we are being asked to do this: « Get up there, we'll drop them here. We want to serve the country. You mentioned to me what the obligations of the present Government of Catalonia are and I thank you, I thank you for all your advice and advice. But let me tell you what our criteria are, too, because we have it. And what we want is to serve the citizens of this country. And, therefore, this is our top priority. If we find enough support in this room to pull the assumptions and you answer that call, huh? And we're having a serious discussion about assumptions, sure we'll get out of it and we'll be able to serve citizens and citizens of Catalonia much better instead of just sitting here and throwing our shit through our heads. And you said we don't have a majority. You see, obviously, if an investiture was made and the president was invested and the government was formed, it was because there was a majority. What's going on is that most of them, so they've lost their way to judicial interference, which you also know very well, huh? , and for other interferences, therefore, that have disnaturalized that parliamentary majority that came out of the ballot box. Therefore, listen to me, you say that we do not govern, inopportunity..., compare it with the Balearics, with the Valencia Country, and mentioned the government of Pedro Sánchez. So, look, I also appreciate you talking about the government of Pedro Sánchez, because if anyone rules under decree and decree law..., lower legislative action of the last forty years in Madrid, the government of Pedro Sánchez. More than 60 per cent of legislative initiatives are real decrees – there are real ones, there are not so many, are there? Listen, call for elections... yes, they've called for elections. Three-hundred-initiative prop, huh? The Spanish state has fallen or fallen with the dissolution of the Courts. Well, isn't that inoperative? Isn't that stuff? So that's how it's done. They promised to solve the issue of refugees in the Mediterranean with great statements and photos, and what they did in the end is paralyze the action of the Open Arms vessel at the port of Barcelona. That's paralysis, strict paralysis, literal, huh? Listen, your only move to the Spanish government, so at the end... why do you say that we're just talking about the process and I don't know what... listen, you saw the campaign that Minister Borrell is running, huh? , in which he only talks about fake news on October 1st, inventing things, in which they are limited to going to the world insisting that if Spain is a democracy, that if the judiciary is independent... Why do they need to do all this? That's all the Foreign Minister does! Why? They must surely think that there are doubts in Europe and the world about democratic quality and judicial independence in Spain; therefore, they surely feel obliged to do so. But they do talk about all these issues, and we do govern. In the background, what I'm most concerned about is that I don't know who you like at PSC. Like socialists, what's their plan? Because he didn't say it, he didn't say it, he didn't let us see it, he didn't let us see it. You say you want to rule, this is clear to us, you want to rule instead of us. But what he didn't make clear is to do what. So I would have liked a little project here, wouldn't I? And besides, he says I'm answering and I'm going over the same issues I went over a couple of days ago to a city inquiry. So much. Clearly, because government action now, so, with some more things, it's a lot like government action a few days ago. So... but when Ciutadans was presenting this inquiry, what were you doing? Sleep? That's what they liked so much, huh? That you have now decided to share questions, to share concerns, to share obstructive intentions with your future governing partners in Madrid? Thank you very much. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.220.0	Thank you, Counselor. Order, please. [[Question to the Government on cultural policy]] [[300-00103/12]] Then we move on to the agenda item, which is the question to the Government on cultural policy, presented by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, and has the word, to expose the question, MP Lluís Font.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.221.0	Late afternoon, vice president, deputies and deputies, councillors and councillors. Constellera Borràs, if I'm not mistaken, today is her last full in this legislature as the constellera. There is a point of emotion, I believe, in all of us, for today's intervention. It seems to me that it will be the opportunity to take stock of the work done and to project a little the event. I have to start telling her we'll find her missing. I am sure that the person who will come to replace it will do very well, but on behalf of the parliamentary groups that we support the Government we want to tell him that we were very pleased with the work he has done, that he has posed a passing and an illusion and that we will always remember the beating he has left in the world of culture. [[Greetings.]] I will allow myself to make three reflections and then a prec. It may seem to you from the start that I'm running away from study, but I'll end up landing in what we're interested in and occupied by. You have been a counselor who has promoted and deployed cultural policies. But here I'd like to start by pointing out some elements of the country with what he did, because it seems to me that it's a lot of meaning. The first reflection is to say: I believe that she has been a builder of culture. That is to say, in the conferences he has made from the territory, in the interventions in the Plenary or the Committee on Culture, in the multiple speakers, he has contributed creating knowledge, providing innovative synthesis in the world of culture and art, spreading in many different publics complicated ideas to make them available. I say this in being a builder, "being a person who has created culture. He's not only made cultural policies, he's just leaving us this poker. Sometimes there is this dual function of being managers of policies and also creators of knowledge and culture. And that's the first thing I wanted to reschedule. The second. Says the Wittgenstein, in his book of aphorisms, very deep things, and there's one that seems to me to be very appropriate for what we're dealing with here. He said: "We are fighting with language, we are fighting with language. And someone will say, "Looks like a redundant tautology, but that's not it. There are two different propositions that are complementary: one saying that there is a tool to fight in life that is language, not strength, not punches, not weapons, but language, and the second saying that the recipient of this fight is the perversion of language, when language is used for a purpose that does not approach it, when we are flawed, true means – that sometimes they are more dangerous than pure lying – when we say that it has no correlation with the real world and cannot be empirically proven... And I see it to you, Counselor, in this language battle, and it seems to me that I describe well the task that occupied it: to help purify language, because in the background this is an ethical bet, that language is not appropriate to do morale, not to impose questions, but to reflect reality and build ideas, culture and reflection for this purpose. The third reflection, paraphrased by the poet Espriu: I honestly don't know if culture will make us clean, noble, rich and happy, but I think it will make us more free and naked; it seems to me that at least this is clear. I believe that culture helps us to deepen our knowledge of ourselves and others, to be able to endure the kingdoms of our own existence, and that is the great bet of freedom. And it makes us naked because it does not let us settle down, that we still conform, that we limit ourselves to administering the present, but always ask us questions. More than administering conventional answers, he worries us with his questions, he asks us the way Councilman Bosch said before. In the background, it helps us to be where each of us wants to be. Culture is the path of access to the ineffable. The words, above all rational, are sometimes an obstacle; but the symbol, the music, the poetry, the art, the aesthetics in its conjunction, help us to deepen in the most common of ourselves, this combination of languages highlights the humanity of people. Culture is therefore very much, as is the country and as citizens. All this said, I ask you, that you have been at the forefront of such an important responsibility for the individual freedom of people and for the freedom of a whole people, what analysis can we have of what cultural policies have been in the governance agenda during this time? What does it seem to him that it is essential to highlight? Where would you put the accents? In short, what is the balance of this work that you have led in collaboration with a magnificent team? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.222.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Then, to answer, has the word Laura Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.223.0	This will be difficult, today... thank you very much, President. Counsel, MPs, friend Lluís Font, teacher, thank you very much, the truth, that today I'm giving the opportunity to talk about this situation of culture in the country, now that, as has been said, I face a change of course in my trajectory of public service. A change that I take for granted of responsibility and consistency with the unit that I have always defended and that will lead me away from that which decided to replace my academic life, at least temporarily, for political management, first as the Director of the Catalan Letters Institution, and these last nine months as the Culture Advisor of this Government. Certainly, many could assume that new times are too long to fully deploy a government program that we wanted it to be ambitious; it could only be ambition, because we aim for culture, precisely, as you have said, as a tool of individual and collective empowerment and, therefore, as it remains when there is nothing left, so that it differs precisely from any other form of life on the planet. And, therefore, we firmly believe in this transformative and social dimension of culture as well. That is why we had to be ambitious, our programme, and indeed we presented it on July 10 to the Culture Committee of this Parliament. And it's true that it's not too long now, but it's also time – it's funny, it's nice – that allows life to develop, it's time that allows an embarrass to come to term, and so I'm going to take this half-hour. I, who more soc mother, who participates in the classics, who absolves me in maeutics, which is this art of giving light, which is what the ancient bearers do, I have worked, we have worked intensely in the Department of Culture, because culture is life. And, therefore, it is nice that these new months have been to give light a project of life, and of cultural life. And I am glad to know that whoever brought me to the task will make this government's strategic lines, and therefore the sector will not have to undergo unforeseen changes of momentum. It is obvious that each councillor prints a taranna different from his or her management and that institutions are people. But, beyond the people, this government governs, and it agrees with a plan of legislature that will find continuity in the new councillor of culture that the president decides to appoint. And nine months is a short time, but they've been on a great job, an intense job in the department. I have had the pleasure of working colza to colza with a magnificent team of people, some of whom are present today in the room, both the directors and directors-general as well as the staff of the councillor, who have allowed me to deploy this work of government that seems to me important to be able to put in value today, here in their parliament, to evaluate this path and to place us on the backs of the future that sets culture in our country. I must have heard many times that culture is what no one questions, but neither does it prioritize. And, indeed, it is hard to find out who does not agree with entry that it is important to say that we have a reading society, with sensitivity to music, painting, the arts, that values heritage and that its traditions are valued. It's all clear to everyone that it's important, that it's one of the columns, the pillars of the welfare state. But we often forget that this importance also has to be translated into presuppostarial terms, that culture has to go from being important to being a priority. And when I presented the strategic lines in the matter of culture, I looked at it as I moved forward to the recovery of the levels of reversal fifteen years ago; that's what I was thinking at the time. And this government is working on extended assumptions of extended assumptions, and so, yes, I am regressing from the fact that I couldn't go ahead with the scenario that I found just now just out of the tunnel of fate 155. I make this reflection because, as long as the approval of the assumptions is based on this Parliament, and in the framework of culture I have worked – there is not now the vice president, but you know, will also give faith to the Councilwoman Capella, whom I have worked tirelessly – to improve the objectives of the Culture premise, I think that everyone in this Parliament should feel compelled to overcome the ideological differences that lead us to a situation of presupposition that is naturally painful for culture but that is painful for the country. Because when there's not enough resources there are things that they want to do and that they can't do. That's why I've always been grateful and I was very grateful that my public administration school, if I may say so, was the institution of Catalan letters, that by the time I took over the address I had seen their assumptions reduced to a third and half their team of workers. And, along with my arms or falling into despair before the realization of the great number of initiatives that objectively could not last long, I tried to fill the presuppositionary limitation with imagination, with shared efforts, with initiatives that achieved the maximum results with the minimum resources and with dialogue, with a lot of dialogue, with a lot of open eyes, with the absolutation of consensus and the sum of institutions, projects and people. I have therefore sought to apply this same way of doing it to the Department of Culture, and to do that which the president on more than one occasion has said: « put the soul– or « put the soul, he said– in the projects. We have set ourselves up, we have set up the soul, and I would like to say that we have left our soul at the time of settling the maximum of the object with the minimum of presumption. And to do the most with the least means hard to term initiatives that this morning responded to the proposal of the Cultural Commonwealth. Or work in the field of language, for example, of Catalan language, completing the highest xifra of the history of the program of linguistic pairs– we have already exceeded 130,000 pairs – but also develop and encourage the lenght of Catalan signs, defining levels of knowledge and creating specific subsidy lines for their development. Or also promote knowledge and dissemination and use of the occident, the Aran to the Aran, run from the country, because it's run from the country where it's official. To do the most with the least means to unite efforts between administrations to turn into a reality both the unified catalog for the entire public reading system of Catalonia, as a national interlibrary prestec system, and a unique catalog of libraries, which for a few weeks I will not be able to have the goig to present publicly. But also, unite efforts between administrations and between the departments of the Generality. We presented a document in which at this time we are working on 208 cultural performances across the Generality. To do the most with the least means to have managed to develop, for example, the decree of the section figure of the national archive, which allows to vertebrate the territory from a national archive of capital, maintaining the legal independence of the private archives, but working in a single system and keeping the archives in the territory. Therefore, we have deployed the Pla d'arxius y de gestion documentaire de Catalunya. This was a government priority. We can say that the first phase of work has already been completed: eight territorial posts, more than three hundred professionals in the sector. We bet on this participatory culture and we need to put our ears in the sector and gather their experience. There are things, however, that can't be done without resources either, for the imagination that it's possible. And we have tried to allocate the resources that are needed, from the very few we have, to vertebrate the network of cultural equipment, museums and monuments of the territory. He could donate many data from the territories, from Lleida, Girona, the art museums, the network of museums of the Tarragona comarques and the Lands of the Ebre, the expansion of the national archive, of the Library of Catalonia. The way we have worked since the compromise and loyalty with the city and with the country in search of a solution that allows both the Macba and the North Raval CAP to obtain the extensions that are needed to develop their respective functions, and we are also able to complete the deployment of a Republican project, such as completing the Archius Comarcals Xarxa. The international projection was another of the lines of work. The renovation to the captivator of the Ramon Llull Institute, the reopening of its Llull in London with a Mallorcan captivator. We've done everything, and so many things, we've also done the government that governs. For example, in this Parliament we have attended 346 parliamentary initiatives. I have answered thirty-three oral questions, 176 written questions and we have approved fourteen resolutions; but also thirty-three government agreements– Culture is the third department in the government's district making government agreements–, and we have approved four decrees in the matter of culture. That's the only thing we've done that's intense about the work we've done. But, I, as a parliamentarian, more than a counselor, I also wanted to be here, I wanted to listen to them, I wanted to learn from you. I thank, too, all, the tarnan of interventions that have allowed me to learn from this parliamentary life, from which I am much later in these new months. They're government tapes. There are many data; we can present many, of these data, but at the side of the data there are people. The work we have done alongside the professionals, feeling there, listening to them, gathering their initials and doing them political action: Government that governs for all the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.224.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[The applause continues.]] Thank you. Then has the word Lluís Font deputy for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.225.0	Thank you, Counselor, for this analysis, for this balance. Maybe now she's out, briefly, being able to anticipate a little, scenarios of the future. I believe that perhaps the key words to describe this phase could be "creative continuity". "Continue because we need to guarantee stability, and citizenship needs, therefore, to see that we are arranged in the same direction, and "creativity because each brings its talent and its uniqueness, and declines the great objectives in a particular way. I wanted to ask him if he could anticipate a little of his vision of the challenges and the path ahead. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.226.0	Thank you, Congressman. You have the word, finally, to close, the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.227.0	Again, thank you. In the photo I've been looking for in this intervention, which is not a definite balance, but a picture of the present, of a moment of change, huh? , which you reflect and give accounts to the Parliament of the work done during these months..., and now I'll talk about what's left to complete and in which direction I want to do it. Yes, in these new months of pregnancy that we have given to light these actions that I have thought about – and that I am absolutely sure that they will – I would like to finish this first part that I could not complete on the first round, because more than I did on these complete actions, I have the opportunity to have, above all, also shared the concerns and proposals, many of which will be incorporated into the policies. Hundreds of cultural agents from our country, whom I have been able to visit within the territory. I have held 371 meetings with these actors, and I have participated in 333 acts, which leads me to apologize: I have been thirty-five out of forty-one regions of the country. I want to apologize to the citizens of Cerdanya, Pla de l'Estany, Ripollès, Pallars Justa, Noguera and Terra Alta, who are the only places where I have not given time to go, at least on official visit. Our house, and also outside. We could do it with the car, the train and the plane. The figures are also very significant, because yesterday I thought of Amelia Earhart, who knows that she is the pioneer of aviation, the first woman to cross the Atlantic in solitary and to try once in the world – these about 68,000 kilometers in car and about 30,000 by train or plane would represent two laps to the Earth. I would do what I needed to do to get to all the reasons of our country, to all the reasons where culture is vivid, just like the germ of a revolution, of the revolution that I consider to be the most radical and the most definitive of all. And that's because I've done my words on Montserrat Roig, when you say that culture is the most revolutionary political option in the long run. And, therefore, in the medium term, it is necessary that we deepen the line of work, for example, for the incompliments that the Spanish State has with our cultural institutions, and also in the defense of actions that are key to the future of our culture, such as, for example, the Law of Cinema, or, in terms of language, the importance that it must have, must have these two aspects in the policies of this country. Because we know that the Law of Cinema, when it came into force, in 2011, eight years ago, established the obligation to double or subtitle 50_percent of the productions that are exhibited in Catalonia, and it was not possible to deploy after the European Commission challenged it, arguing in a way that it is surrealistic– let's face it – that there was discrimination in favour of language..., which established discrimination in favour of Catalan language. This forces us to rethink this law. A law that we have replaced by specific agreements with the sector, and that certainly have not yet achieved the effects that the law of 2011 was pursuing: the normalization of the presence of Catalan language in the exhibition halls. And it is important that we take these difficulties as opportunities, and that we also remain aware of how the reality of cinematographic exhibition has changed in these years in our country. It is also true that it has proliferated the quantity of salts that display in original subtitled version, and also the multiplication of supports that are already going, today, much more beyond cinemas or the growing industry of children's cinema, than we have to specifically age in linguistic terms. And, therefore, we need to increase these efforts in this line, encouraging the production of cinema in català, and that we cannot do unless we go back to TV3 muscle because it is converted, together with the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises, into the real locomotive of cinema and the audiovisual that is done in our language. We have to work in reading, with the Reading Plate, and we are about to, in the mark of the Cultural Commonwealth, be able to deploy the reading municipality, an experience of success that we will extrapolate to the whole country. Vertebrating and making us strong in language and culture will be how we can accomplish the maximum of the Montserrat Roig. The commitments to Madrid must also be a matter of follow-up, and I will go from there on, to Congress, because we will all work together to ensure that the demands we have made in this Parliament are also effective from there. And I'll end up focusing on my classics. We talked about the maheutica, before, and Sofocles, at the king's edip, giving us this quote, which I find magnificent and always accompanying me, which is: "To be useful for what is tea and can be the most beautiful work of a mortal. This is the way I've tried to do my job, rigorously, professionally and honestly. Many thanks to all, because, beyond the ideological differences, many have brought me their satisfaction for the work done. It has been an honor to be the Councilwoman of Culture, and to be of this Government and of this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.228.0	Thank you, Your Honor. And, if you'll allow me, thank him for his work in the name of the chamber, and eventually. [[Asking the Government about the financing needed to strengthen the welfare state]] [[300-00097/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government about the financing needed to strengthen the welfare state, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. And to expose the inquiry has the word the deputy Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.229.0	Good afternoon. President, thank you. That you're very lucky, counselor, and that you're still useful, huh? , to the country, here, there, shoot where you can, effectively, continue working as you have done. Consellera Capella, Vice President..., I think we could say that we live with a contradiction, that we are asked to do so and that to some extent also in scandal, in this reference that we have to make – and today in a very special way – to which he means « state of welfare. And we have, at times, growth and inequality, huh? Even worse: we can say that we have growth that feeds on the growth of inequality. We're growing up, not just compatible, but... in fact, establishing a cause-effect relationship, right? This happens in Catalonia with certain characteristics, which are also what we would like to comment on. The large data, the macroeconomic data tell us clearly: the Catalan economy continues to grow, and grow strongly, 2.6_per_cent, still not as much as in previous years, but much..., in a way still clearly superior to the middle of the State, and also superior to the middle of the euro area. And also the rate of work shows a clear downward trend, and, in change, the employment rate, that is, the number of people who work and want to work is higher than the average of the European Union, and also higher force, certainly, than the average of the State. Exports, tourism continue to hit remembering figures, and it is, on the other hand, greatly increasing net business creation or investment in what we call start-ups, isn't it? In summary, I could say, therefore: "The economy is fine, we have allowed the 2008 recession to stand still. But unfortunately, as we all know in this chamber, and the government still more, the indicators of welfare and social progress show that social inequalities and the poverty risk rate are not being reduced, right? , and so the indicators, the 80-20, the one that measures the relationship between the 20_per_cent that has more tickets and the 20_per_cent that has less, or the Arope indicator, that explains the risk of poverty and social exclusion. And we also know that the growth of inequalities is a global phenomenon, that it is not strictly propitious, that it is not excluded, that it affects many countries of our world, of our European Union, including, despite that, sometimes... That is, inequalities increase between countries, although sometimes we can say that it diminishes inequality between countries, between states. And this has to do, therefore, with a global concept such as globalisation or, if not, with a certain evolution of economic globalisation, which advances unstoppable, seems, but without counterpart in political governance. Or, in other words, we seem to be watching the domain without the counterpart of the great economic powers, in a more or less visible alliance with some of the great states of the world, over the democratic power theoretically attributed to the citizenry. I would say that to societies and their representatives, to all of us, we are only close to a few right of complaint, of protest, but in no case the intervention and real protagonist in the essential reforms. It is this context of inequality that is growing between a global and irregular market, of one band, and a society with democracy intervened and affluent, of another, it is this context, I say, that has facilitated phenomena like that of tax or labor dumping, in a mena of horrible race between states to become competitive all sacrificing, in the past, the state of welfare. Or it is possible for European citizens to give up around 100,000_million euros a year, it is estimated, on the heels of the tax elucidation techniques practiced by many of the big corporations; some corporations, multinationals present and known also in our home, that they are able to reduce to the smallest scandalous also the taxation that would reasonably correspond to them on their immense benefits, it is clear, if we count on a genuine and progressive fiscal harmonisation governed by the European Union. Well, in any case, whether it is a global phenomenon or a European phenomenon, this cannot be used as a consolation, especially because other countries have been able to avoid it or minimize its effects, as demonstrated by the fact that we have a significantly higher risk rate of poverty than Catalonia and the State than the eurozone medium and paradoxically similar force to Catalonia and the conjunction of the State despite the high positive employment differential in Catalonia. The growth of GDP, therefore, has not only been synonymous with greater social welfare, but is perfectly compatible with a..., it no longer has to be seen or is little consequence of the employment rate it guarantees, right? We're growing, we're more busy, but we can't avoid inequality. Of course, we have to consider this in the framework of the competitions and resources and the distribution of resources that we have between the State and the autonomy, and it is more concretely clear that we have to make reference to the giant fiscal deficit that prevents us from putting the resources that we generate in Catalonia at the service of the urgent and powerful needs of the Catalan society and its more than legitimate democratic demands to dispose of it. That's why we need to talk about the resources we have, even though there's this limitation. And that's why we attended the debate a few weeks ago about a first advance of what it might be, what it might be, what the presupposition proposal might have been for the year 2019, which actually dealt with – and they did in good measure – to ensure recovery or advent in the way of welfare, through strict management and ambition to serve these concepts of equality, of equity recovered, right? The forecast of that pre-project of the law, let's say, was a powerful forecast in terms of social spending, for health, for education, for work, for social matters... It seems that we have all been able to see. We would be now, if we had put forward that assumption, above the levels, of the maximum values that we had achieved in 2010. If there was enough support in this Parliament to approve, to turn that pre-project into a premise, we would be full of the objective of reversing the details of those years, the details of the European, Spanish, Catalan economic crisis, which has affected us so hard. That's why it's hard to admit that from this chamber, and even more from groups that consider themselves progressive and left-wing, there was no attitude of availability, of openness to enter the analysis, as it were, of the draft assumptions of 2019, and to do so without any apriorities or positions of rebuking decisions of beautiful antivi. In these conditions, then, how will we act, counsel, ask, to bring forward those presuppositionary forecasts for education, for salvation, for our social services? How, too, in these high-complexity circumstances, can we push and deploy reforms and new policies, which we sometimes call "predistribution, equity recovery, in other areas, such as employment?" Understand 'precariousness, minimum wages, work arrangements..., in other words, everything you have to see with the dignity of the concept's work. Or in habitating, how will we focus on a public supply of affordable and sufficient logger? As it seems to me that we are, in other words, working on this very clearly with a new regulation of leases, does the limitation of the price increase fit? How in the field of education will we work to give full power to the concepts ‘vocational training and training-treball connection' or to the educational network of the zero-three-year tram? That is to say, it seems to me that we are, say, cheerful and attentive to what the Government can offer us as to, in fact, sure not as full compensation for the absence of assumptions arising from the attitude or lack of sufficiently positive attitude in this chamber. Because they did not call for unconditional support: they called for critical support, they asked for substance in the proposals, because they were ambitious, because they are still there, because they have to follow. In short, will you advise, how can we summarise, analyse, predict, regarding the information that you can provide us with regarding what you are doing today, what you are doing, what you are preparing for, what we will do next months and next years to ensure, in order to strengthen, to recover the state of welfare, that today is, in fact, negatively affected by this absence of sufficient support, with assumptions that were of maximum ambition, of maximum achievement and of maximum ability to express real objectives of recovery of equity and recovery of welfare effect from the state of welfare as a concept, but of real welfare for all and every citizen of Catalonia? We're in this. I hope, Counselor, that I can explain it to us so clearly as I'm used to doing. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.230.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word has the counselor of Justicia, the lady Esther Capella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.231.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Mr Maragall..., well, as you know, this question was addressed to the Honourable Mr Pere Aragonès, Vice-President of the Government and Councillor for Economics and History, who found it gratifying to have a parental leave, a reason for which the Councillor of Justice has to answer questions that affect the country's economy and history. Deia recently Stiglitz, awarded the Nobel Prize in Economics, that if they are not correctly measuring the problems they cannot make correct political decisions in order to solve the problems. That's why the first government is doing to improve the welfare state is learning to measure this welfare state and learning to measure the problems we have. For the first time, the preliminary draft of the guany assumptions included a set of welfare indicators and social progress indicators that everyone today can consult on the Vice-President's website. Also, the analysis of this set of indicators allows us to draw a set of conjectures that must serve us to improve our welfare state and introduce a whole series of measures to improve it. First of all, the predisposition to which you refer is as important or more important than redistribution. In other words, if economic growth is achieved by a copy of job insecurity, it will not have been possible for many social groups to become presuppositions. Precarity is especially difficult in low-skilled activities and among the collectivists with a low level of training. Input inequality worsens due to the sudden increase in the cost of basic benefits, such as habitating or energy. Although they claim to do so, not all social policies have an expected social redistribution effect and many do not reach the most disadvantaged group, and the importance of assessing public policies and reviewing expenditure in relation to their objectives is evident. In particular, for the evaluation of public policies, it is important that we institutionalize the practice of evaluation, both on the part of the Government of Catalonia as it should also be for the Parliament, a solid and well-founded evaluation in essence for decision-making, and contributes..., helps to make decisions and helps to improve governance, transparency and the quality of our public services. Ensuring welfare and social progress is not, therefore, anything to solve exclusively with more social spending. It also asks to intervene and regulate the markets such as, among others, work and housing, a fact that fills in the import of what you pointed out to us, Mr Maragall, respect the balance of competences and the allocation of resources between the State and the Generality of Catalonia; in other words, a fact that ultimately justifies the requests of the majority of this chamber for a suitable state, so as to be able to guarantee the state of welfare. At this time the Generality has no or very little capacity to regulate the labour market, a labor market pre-characterized as a consequence of the legislation of the People's Party and, obviously, for looking at another side of the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol, even though it has had the opportunity to modify the labour reform of the People's Party. For what you do to housing, you pointed it out, recently we have had to resort to the Civil Code of Catalonia – in short, because we have the competence and the will – so as to seek lives so as to shut down the bottle of price of lloger; they also do so from the Habitatage, in this case from the Territorial Council. And, for what it does to the poor energy, it doesn't matter that I remember the legal crossroads that we have to go through so that we can deal with this situation. In relation to resources, in Spain, as with most developed countries, the main social expenditure is derived from pensions managed by the single social security fund, and Catalonia in return around a 16.9_per_cent, despite the fact that it does not contribute around a 19_per_cent. And, therefore, it is this third of our fiscal deficit that you determine in this case for the single social security fund. As for the social expenditure which is the Government of Catalonia's own competence, such as education, health, social benefits, and beyond pensions, such as the guaranteed income of the citizenry, which undercut its recurrent insufficiency, which is seriously hampered by the greater State appropriation of the increases resulting from the limits, in this case, from the taxes and limits of the reduction of the deficit and the symmetry of the distribution by communities. If Catalonia spends on GDP as the average of autonomous communities of common rule, the percentage of GDP that corresponds to the Generality of Catalonia..., could have 5,000_million euros more. If we had a different funding system, like Basques, we would obviously have 100,000 million more euros. And so I could go back to explaining why we have a fiscal deficit, but in any case I am using the words of Minister Montero, who would tell us that he would partially correct this bias and that, therefore, would help to balance this situation with a financing of €7,000_million for the common rule communities, that is to say, by updating the beasts of the financing model to adapt them to the reality of the tax refunds of those years later. We are convinced that the representatives of the Socialist Party of Catalonia will help their comrades of the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol to find a solution, to seek the light and the right way to make these 7 million and a half effective, to make effective the beasts and, therefore, we do not leave to the bad weather, therefore, the city of Catalonia. They know perfectly well that €100,000_million should be paid to the autonomous communities, whether it is approved as if it is not approved of the general premise of the State. Mr. Iceta sure matches this approach, just as I am sure and convinced that President Sánchez is still more. These moneys are not from the State, they are moneys from the city of Catalonia, they correspond to the city and citizens of Catalonia, without or with the approval of the general assumptions of the State. We have all the right to the part that corresponds to us in our recap. Moreover, the same Minister Montero, when she was Hisenda's councillor of the Autonomous Community of Andalusia, thus defended it, that the beasts did not anagate linked to the general assumptions of the State. In short, therefore, we need the resources derived from the financing system and from the compliment of all the transitional provisions and the provisions of the Statute of Autonomy which correspond to us, and which were agreed, and which are law, and which are of application, because the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol also defended it when it was opposed. And, in any case, I am convinced that Minister Montero will complete her words and thus make effective the beast corresponding to the quantities that correspond to us in order to be able to face all the social policies that we want to do. But, in any case, while, in the meantime, we work and make our obligations effective, such as fighting against the fracà and dropping out of school; strengthening professional training, in general, and dual, in particular; deploying guaranteed income from citizenship; public contract with social criteria; accompanying the union and employers for the betterment of agreements and setting up a minimum wage of reference appropriate to the Catalan economic reality; fighting against tax fraud, because effectively the Catalan Tax Agency does this, fighting against tax fraud; reviewing expenditure and in order to improve efficiency; evaluating tax fraud before and after the incorporation of public policies, etc. For example, the obligation to compensate the Department of Justice – taking advantage of adventency, also – in the 280_million euros that we carry to the motxilla from the transfers of 96, and hem obert, we have put in operation fifty-six judicial organs us; 280_million euros of accumulation, and therefore we have done it to the lung, which does not happen in any other autonomous community, that every judicial organ that they have in operation, therefore, brings their own presuppositional motxilla; these million euros, obviously, should be compensated for. The complaint and the claim of compensation for all the institutional weaknesses – they advanced the one of the Department of Justice – ; the measures for the expansion of the public housing park, clog the specific financing lines of the Catalan Institute of Finance, for the affordable housing logger, clog the reform, as well as the Civil Code of Catalonia, to guarantee the rights and obligations of the owners but also of the people who want to access a "living place to logger". In short, if there is a priority for this government, it is the goal of preserving and strengthening the welfare state, something that guides all our bilateral negotiations with the state, which was done by the Maragall Councillor at the time that he was in the responsibility of the outside world, and therefore also bilaterals with the state, so that we could overcome the current autonomous model, as our daily work to improve it while we are still part of this state, which, as you know, would not like us to stay here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.232.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the victims of terrorism]] [[300-00100/12]] All right. So we continue with the following inquiry, which is about the victims of terrorism, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. Mr Matías Alonso explained the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.233.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by welcoming José Vargas and Santos Santamaría, members of the Catalan Association of Victims of Terrorist Organizations, to this house. Today we bring to Parliament a question to the Government of the Generality about terrorism and those who have suffered it and who still suffer it, an issue on which for many years a thick veil has been wanted. I remember the proverbial expression "Catalan oasis" referring to the oil raft in which Catalan politics apparently ran for decades while some of its main protagonists were making and undoing their desire and even putting their hand in the box. In Catalonia nothing never happened, even when in February 2005 then President Pasqual Maragall hit the head of the opposition, Artur Mas: "You have a problem, and this problem is called 3_per_cent, stone phrase that remained in nothing; quickly the pragmatism of those who were in alternation was applied: today for you, tomorrow for me. Nothing ever happened. Since Ciutadans entered this Parliament in November 2006, some things have changed. We know that the oasis was nothing but a crowded puddle; we know that systemic corruption had party names, surnames and acronyms. In the last three legislatures we have seen how a political group whose heirs are here today, in this hall of plenary, has tried to boost our democratic rules of coexistence with the support of their close enemies and with the ultimate aim of covering up their shames, also pretending to go with rositas. But there is one thing that has hardly changed: the indifference towards the victims of terrorism and the institutional commitment of many municipalities and the Generality itself to keep them in the background, in silence, as if they wished to hide an obviousness. Terrorism has wreaked havoc on our society. Despite Carod-Rovira's attempt to trade with the terrorist gang ETA, Catalonia, as a free and democratic society, has been and is the object of terrorism in the flesh of its citizens. Terrorism is a growing scourge in the world. In Spain we have been suffering for decades. Terrorism is a bloody instrument of totalitarianism, a frontal attack on democratic values. The bloody madness of the enemies of democracy seeks to double the democratic will of society through terror. Terrorism seeks to impose totalitarian societies and regimes where freedom, justice, equality, solidarity and political pluralism have no place. All democrats are obliged to condemn and combat with the instruments of the rule of law the terrorist organizations and all the enemies of democracy that sustain it. Over the past forty years in Spain, more than 1,300 people have been killed by various terrorist gangs and organizations, of which one hundred and fourteen in Catalonia. Of the total number of killings in Spain, five hundred and fifty belonged to the Security Forces and Armed Forces and eight hundred and six were civilians; in Catalonia, forty-one members of the Security Forces and Armed Forces and seventy-three civilians were killed. The wounded have risen to almost five thousand in all of Spain, with tens of thousands of compatriots who have seen their lives altered or broken by the criminal action of terrorism. All of them have been subjected to the terrorist attack because of their mere status as free citizens in a social and democratic rule of law. Terrorism is the main enemy of freedom, justice, equality, solidarity and political pluralism; terrorism is the main enemy of democracy. However, for too long, for decades, in most of the events organized by the associations of victims of terrorism in Catalonia we have seen indifference from institutional representatives both at municipal and autonomous level. If you think it's an exaggeration, ask the victims. During all that time the memory of which the majority of the Catalan political class has demonstrated, the memory that has become officialist memory by political will and by the work and grace of the public and concerted media in Catalonia, the memory that has been intended to instill in society has been selective; I dare say that very selective. The ruling officialism, mutated in militant separatism in the last three legislatures, has been very eager to remember and print in the collective memory dramatic moments lived in the past, sometimes very far away, but at the same time has left behind very recent events that occurred very few years ago whose protagonists, the people who have suffered them, our compatriots who have suffered them, live among us immersed in institutional indifference. And all the victims of terrorism, whatever their personal status, are by the fact that Spain is a social and democratic state of law. The victims of terrorism, in all the democracies of our environment, also in Spain and, therefore, in the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, have been because we live in a society still free, and that is why we are the target of terrorist totalitarianism. The victims have paid the price of freedom to those who intend to snatch it from us. Faced with this reality, the institutional response in Catalonia has left much to be desired; at least there has been lukewarmness towards those who have paid such a high price. The fact that in the last legislatures, especially in the last two, those who support the Government of the Generality defend a fictitious republic, based on a so-called founding law with a marked totalitarian cut, may explain the growing tendency to banalize terrorism and to whitewash its paladins and apologetas. Fortunately, the Spanish Constitution of 1978 and the Statute of Autonomy of 2006 remain fully in force in Catalonia. Fortunately this Parliament, despite the instrumentalization and the opportunistic blockade of separatism, continues to hold the representation of all the citizens of Catalonia. Fortunately, separatism has not been able to bridge as this Parliament wishes and support its attempt at secession in a parallel assembly as they intended just over a year and a half ago. But unfortunately, terrorism continues to be whitened, both incarnated in Terra Lliure, and that of Basque origin; a systematic whitening that has sometimes bordered the limit of apology. I am forced to remember what in distress of the victims, from the television that we all pay and enjoy a minority has been whitewashed a terrorist assassin convicted as Carles Sastre, who militated in Epoca, the precursor band of Terra Lliure, to whom the apologeta on guard in December 2015 called himself "political prisoner for having fulfilled a part of the thirty-year prison sentence that was imposed on him in October 1985 for his participation in the murder of businessman José María Bultó. Of course, there is no record of his repentance. Following the line of disproportionate and sectarianism that has characterized Catalan autonomous television, the same apologeta included Sastre in the category of "great reserve of independence". The revolution of smiles, using the television that should be of all, praises without modesty to its butchers; a practice that has unfortunately been extended to the Government of the Generality itself, to its pro-president and militant associationism that has committed itself to breaking democratic coexistence in Catalonia. I refer to the evidence: a very recent photo of the president of the Generalitat with Carlos Sastre. Counsel, what measures have been taken or are planned by the Government of the Generality to prevent the increasing normalization of separatist bias terrorism? What steps has the Government of the Generality taken or intends to take to dignify and honour the memory of all victims of terrorism? What steps has the Government of the Generality taken or plans to take to provide the Catalan Association of Victims of Terrorist Organizations with the necessary means to enable them to carry out their activities for the benefit of all victims of terrorism? I hope you'll be able to give me an answer. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.234.0	It's the councillor's turn. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.235.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Matías Alonso, stop politicizing the pain of the victims, there is enough; stop using the pain of the victims politically. You're a bad copy of some party that's done it for many years, which politicizes the pain of victims. You're here today, just over a month before the April 28 elections, I'm being asked to try to get the electoral record out of the suffering and pain of the victims of terrorism. Do you know what's going on? That's not all that's going on in this life. Where do you lay the limits, in the way you do politics? Where do you put the limits? And they have nothing to do with exploiting the victims of terrorism who banish them. You, when you make this speech that you have just made from this rostrum, are trivializing the victims who have suffered, who are victims of terrorism. To confuse peaceful protests with terrorist acts is an insult to the real victims of terrorism. And you, every time the CDRs equip themselves with terrorism, are trivializing victims and trivializing terrorist attacks; they are permanently trivializing terrorist attacks. And they don't have enough. Miri, on the 19th of June of last year, on the anniversary of the massacre of Hypercor, ETA's attempt at the commercial center of Barcelona, which ended with the life of twenty-one people and injured forty-five more, as, among others, the leader of his party, Mr Rivera, related ETA's terrorism to President Puigdemont and to Deputy Gabriel Rufián. They permanently equip – he has made it today from this rostrum – independence, a legitimate, civic and peaceful ideology with terrorism every time you have the opportunity. How did you get the bar today to stand in this rostrum and ask me the way you're asking me? You systematically banish terrorism and use the pain of the victims of terrorism. And I'll explain why. The Government of Catalonia has shown that it is and has been at the expense of the victims of terrorism and will continue to be there. The terrorist storm of August 17, 2017 in the city of Barcelona, and later in Cambrils, caused multiple deaths, as well as many wounded people, with injuries of different gravity, injured of different gravity. At the same time, there was also a large volume of people affected for having witnessed the events. Do you already know that the victim's status does not regard them as victims of terrorism? Do you already know that the Ministry of the Interior does not consider them victims of terrorism? You know that, don't you? You don't know that, do you? I take advantage of it to convey support and solidarity to all victims and their relatives and friends. We are at the expense of the victims of those violent acts, of all violent acts. Let's see if they're clear: the government of Catalonia is at the expense of the victims of terrorism. How many times have I wanted to express it? The tragic experience of the storms of August 17, 2017, allowed us to believe the effectiveness, efficiency of the conjunction of the Catalan public administrations in the management of the crisis, both at the very moment of the storm as in the successive moments, as in the days, weeks and subsequent months. The public services of the Government of Catalonia and the Barcelona and Cambrils assemblies responded in an excellent way to the challenge of the multiple incident in terms of public safety and civil protection to the terrorist act of August 2017. They excelled, the Catalan public service; they excelled in the response, in the ability to accompany victims. Not everyone can say the same. I want to revalue the task of all the public servants who have demonstrated to the citizens of Catalonia and to the world their professionalism: Mossos d'Esquadra, Guardia Urbana, the local police, the emergency services and the emergency services, the civil protection services, the rescue services, the meths and forensics, as well as the services to assist the victim of the crime of the Department of Justice. They returned from their vacation to give response to the needs we had in those moments of emergence. All of them are activated, according to established protocols, to provide the best help, support, information and attention to victims, their relatives and affected persons who had witnessed or offered refugees to their shops or restaurants during and after terrorist attacks. It is also important to highlight the task of care and coordination with the consulates and embassies of the countries of origin of the foreign victims in order to facilitate the displacement, management and transit of the relatives and friends of the victims, a task for which we have received thanks, through various means, from all the countries of the world – from all the countries of the world. But the government's action was not limited to the critical phase immediately after the storms. Subsequently, the Technical Committee for Follow-up of Incidents with Multiple Victims was created. The first meeting was formalised on August 23, 2017, the later on April 12, 2018, with the formulation of the Multi-Affected and Post-Affected Incidents Plan of Barcelona. This group was attended by agents from various departments of the Generalitat, the Barcelona Assembly, the Red Creu and the Barcelona Sanitary Consortium. Well, this work has rejected the impulse of the Catalan institutions, of all the Catalan institutions: of the local administration, but also of the Generality of Catalonia. And, in any case, do you respond to the failure of the Government of Catalonia, the failure of the Government of Catalonia to pay attention to victims? Then I'll explain to him how the state government, the current one, which already sees..., is to say, it did not have material time to be able to trace the plan to which the People's Party government made the victims to the length of history – to the length of history. I've been talking about a tempt, the Hypercor. Do you know how the Ministry of the Interior responded at the time of the People's Party? So here's the answer to how the State has treated the victims of terrorism. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.236.0	The answer is the congressman's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.237.0	Look, Counsellor, I have to reiterate the obvious: you, from the Government of the Generality and through the political parties and groups that support you, have trivialized many things. You have laundered your reserves of independence, go where you came from, come from where you came from, despite your condition as convicted terrorists. You guys. And their instrumental entities too. I would like to recall the shameful spectacle of the reception in this Parliament, in the smell of crowds, of the spokesman of ETA, the convict for terrorism Arnaldo Otegi. A tearing episode for the victims of terrorism, who saw how the then President of this Parliament received the representative of ETA, the terrorist gang that shed the most blood in Catalonia. If you don't believe it, here's the documentary evidence. [[The orator shows a full chamber.]] Explicit support for convicts for terrorist crimes, a classic in Catalonia. In all this time, too often, on the occasion of any attack or in many of the acts of tribute to the victims organized in Catalonia, you – and especially the Republican Left – have not done any more a gesture, not even a bite. Look, counselor, the victims have to be looked in the eye, and my heart is still shrinking, you know? , when a few years ago I saw the bright eyes of the daughter of a military man killed by ETA in Barcelona, in 1992, when I was talking to me with a whisper, explaining to me that after more than fifteen years I still did not understand why they had snatched his father, and regretting that during all that time I had not received any kind of help from the institutional officials. His voice was intertwined by his pain and his sense of helplessness. They should look into the eyes of the victims. You, the current Government of the Generality, have watered millions of euros to your like palm trees, while you have been denying for four legislatures the bread and salt to the Catalan Association of Victims of Terrorist Organizations. Since the times of Tandem Mas-Ortega, by the way, also convinced, ACVOT does not receive the minimum institutional assistance from the Generality for the development of its purposes, in support of the group of victims of terrorism in Catalonia. Today, ACVOT is forced to keep its file in a rented storage room and cannot attend to the group of victims as it deserves. Meanwhile, they have watered millions to Eliseu Climent and its Cultural Action of the Valencià Country – among all Catalans we are buying the headquarters in the center of Valencia, more than 10_million_de_euros in charge of Catalan taxpayers– ; unlimited donation for the friends, like the 6_million_de_euros granted to the enlightened that controls the foundation Institut Nova Història. On 11 March, once again, the European Day of Victims of Terrorism passed unnoticed for Catalan society, thanks to the inaction of the Government and this Parliament, as well as the act of tribute held in Roses last Sunday, 17 March, when the 18th anniversary of the vile murder at the hands of ETA of the mosso d'esquadra Santos Santamaría Avendaño was fulfilled, an act which, by the way, was not attended by any political representative of the Department of the Interior; an act attended by only four Members of this Parliament, all of them from the Ciutadans Group; an act to which the representative of the highest ranking security forces and corps who attended was the chief general of the Seventh Civil Guard Zone, based in Barcelona. One more year, once again, one more tribute, neither the Councillor of the Interior nor the Chief Commissioner of the Mossos attended. The victims ask little: memory, dignity, justice and reparation. Santos Santamaría Zaragoza, who accompanies us today, in the act of honouring his son in Roses, made it clear again: « memory, memory and pedagogy. I remember, because what took from them terrorism, their loved ones, will continue among us as long as someone remembers them and pays homage to them; memory, so as not to forget who snatched them and never to repeat them again; pedagogy, so that the new generations will know the truth, because without the truth there can be no true democracy, and without democracy we will not be free. Counselor, put yourself on the side of freedom, on the side of justice, on the side of democracy. Put yourself on the side of the victims and turn your back once and for all on the executioners. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.238.0	When he wants to, he'll advise.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.239.0	Don't worry, Mr. Matías Alonso, that I've always been on the right side of history and freedom, because I've been there for many years. There have never been others. In any case, Mr. Matías Alonso, I would also like to remind you of the feelings of Strasburg, when you display certain photographs, and how the Spanish State was sentenced not to guarantee a fair trial. And in any case, we could talk a long way about the issue. But, in any case, respect you, too, the feelings of Strasburg. And I'd also like you to remember who's in charge of Hipercor's terrorist act. Do you remember the sense of civil responsibility to which the State was sentenced? So record these questions, too. Who didn't have the victims when it was up to him to look after them and who didn't do what it was up to him to do when he produced a supposition like in Hipercor's act? I didn't see myself, Mr. Matías Alonso – I didn't see myself. I said it before: we..., through the Generality it was created the Technical Committee for Follow-up of Incidents with Multiple Victims. This work was given a political impetus decided by the Government of Catalonia and the Assembly of Barcelona before the Spanish Government, with its support... Listen to me, you were the ones who accompanied the Government of the People's Party in the application of 155 and, therefore, unlawfully dismissing the Government of Catalonia and closed this Parliament. But, despite this, the application of the article did not paralyze the good work of all the technical services that took care of the work that they had to do and accompany the victims, that it was possible to continue realizing, because we have good public workers, not thanks to you, but because we have good public workers. And, therefore, it was possible to continue doing this work under the leadership of the Barcelona Sanitary Consortiums. If you have any interest, then there is more information at your disposal. On the other hand, in order to give an accurate information and to orient the affected persons about the different aids and services to which they have right, we have also created, from the Department of Justice, a web page of information of the proper services, and the direct link to the Ministry of the Interior, which has the obligation; the competitions. We all want our competitions. We don't have them. It turns out that this is the competence of the Ministry of the Interior; I remember it: Ministry of the Interior, Government of the Kingdom of Spain. We are aware of the complaints by victims and victims of the attacks of August 17, 2017, the victims of the suffering and the damage that is almost always irreparable, which involves terrorism, threats, terrorist actions – perhaps the most and most terrible violation of human rights – the delays or lack of response..., I remember: delays or lack of response by those who are politically responsible, who hold the competence of them – I remember: Ministry of the Interior, Kingdom of Spain; Government of the Kingdom of Spain –, delays, lack of response to the people affected when they ask for recognition as victims of terrorism and no task of acting in order to have knowledge of their right. Look what I'm saying: help them; they're prescribing actions because they don't answer the ministry in time. What do you think? - What do you think? Are we once again notified to the Government of Catalonia? The Government of Catalonia is concerned about restrictive claims eligibility policies. He said it before: people who witnessed the storm and who, after a while, the sequels come out, and are not considered victims. This is happening, Mr. Matías Alonso. If they don't know what they're talking about, before they document themselves – they document themselves. Responsibility : Ministry of the Interior, Government of the Kingdom of Spain. And that's why we value the work that makes a lot of volunteers. Do you remember Mr. Roberto Manrique? Remember, you guys? Remember, you, that there is a unit of attention and appreciation of the victims of terrorism, which counts on the support of the Barcelona Assembly, which is analysing and submitting requests before the Ministry of the Interior? More than two hundred affected by the terrorist act of August 17 of Barcelona i Cambrils. Do you know that, you guys? They're aware, right? Do you know if we're going with you on this? So yes, we'll go with them. And I repeat: in that we are competent, we do the work; in that we are not competent, we accompany; in that we are not competent, we try to open the way, because who is competent and who has responsibility, and for many years– for many years–..., so those that you gave the support, the Government of the People's Party, to which you have approved the presumption. And never, ever, ever, not a penny more euros to compensate the victims. Have you seen him? Have you seen me? Did you read the Law of Victims? The victim's status? Did she get it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.240.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.241.0	So when you read it, you claim the skills and the ability to match it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.242.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the comprehensive approach to sexual rape against children]] [[300-00098/12]] The next question is about the comprehensive approach to sexual rape against children, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. The question is raised by Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.243.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor, councillor. One of the five people in Catalonia suffered some type of sexual violence during their childhood. Half the victims of sexual rape in our country are infants. Faced with this unquestionable statistic and the brutal reality, above all, that there is behind these figures, we ask ourselves how it is possible that, today, March 2019, with everything that is being denounced on this subject, we continue without having a comprehensive strategy to end this scourge in our country. It is not that the issue has not been the subject of debate either in the Government or in this chamber or in the same society. Over the last few years there have been multiple reports from the childhood sector, reports from the Greuges Synod repeated in this sense, many specific reports, more and more of the same Greuges Synod; but also a lot of debate and much work, through Members, that have done a lot and good work to make this subject visible in this Parliament. And let me remember the lot and good work done for Gemma Lienas, the last legislature. There has also been work done by the government. But don't move – don't move. We are progressing in small things, in concrete sectoral measures, in the visibility of the problem, it is certain, but above all, basically, because the victims, the civil society, the concrete people, through coughing, have managed to organize themselves and to be drilled, above all to the means of communication. But the government is going to go back, it's going a lot to go back. There are probably many causes, but I would like to focus on one that is indisputable and that is constantly denounced by professionals and entities working in this sector: the inability to make a comprehensive strategy, the inability to stop dealing with and working on these issues from the government, or any other issue, as if they were departmental. An example was the inquiry and the Republican Left motion in this very same Ple, which we approved this morning: only focus on education and light. The most striking example, however, is the inopportunity of the only attempt that has been made in recent years by the same government to make a comprehensive strategy. The year 2016 was created as an interdepartmental commission to promote effective protection in the face of child and adolescent abuse– 2016. In 2017 we see some effects of this commission: there is approval by the government of a strict protocol of actions against this type of rape. I have included some concrete measure, in addition, this marc protocol, as it is now actually in place with integrated units of care for children and adolescents who are victims of abuse. A theme that sees the Law – of the LDOIA – of children's rights, of 2010. 2016 is created this commission, 2017 is a concrete proposal; we are in March 2019 and we have not seen anything – nothing. Now that they are aware, it seems, of the syndic, I literally read it from the syndic's report: "There is a lack of perception and conviction that this is an effect that concerns all and each of the administrations with skills related to childhood, that this is an afer of all. I think we should try to start breaking this dynamic, counselor, and in this sense I'm asking you this question. You can assume a comprehensive strategy; a comprehensive strategy that must lead your department because it is yours to protect children. And to begin with, take these things that have already been done so far, with a certain agility begin to act with respect. I'm asking you the question, as I said, because it's yours that you need to have the rest of the government. And I'm gonna give him a quick fix to the main elements, right? , that we should be, I think, addressing in this comprehensive strategy. An integral strategy must be based on prevention, it must be based on detection, on action, but also on the treatment of these victims. There aren't any tools for prevention right now. We are pleased that today the plenary of Parliament has approved that, now, we will pose, it seems, hands to hands, hands to work on sex education course 2020-2021. Fem things, while, counselor; can do things while. It can have tools to detect sexual abuse, sexual rape; otherwise, it can't be avoided. In the middle, in addition, infants who suffer abuse suffer from them for four years, because their adult environment does not have tools to detect sexual violence nor to know what to do before a child who may be putting you in evidence that has suffered sexual violence. And in this I speak of families, but obviously of professionals from various sectors. We call sexual and emotional education already and we call professional training already. One time there was a bust, a lot of things go wrong: from one side, social silence, that covers everything, but we also miss the detection and action measures, that are deficient. In most cases, it didn't end in complaints. And when it ended up in denunciations, it didn't end up with feelings afterwards. Only 15_percent of the cases in which a child has explained an abuse to the school – to the school – end up in the hands of the authorities. There's a lot going on. A deafening silence that covers everything, and the most effective way to break that silence is to provide data. We don't have any dice! The LDOIA already predicted that it was research and that it was a child victimization study. It's not happening. We would, like at least, complete the law also on this subject. Existing protocols; there are many, uncoordinated. Work in coordination of these protocols; this is the closeness, I understand, to you leading it from the government. Specialized resources in diagnostics. Currently there are only two specialized units in the diagnosis of child sexual abuse at two Catalan hospitals, both in the province of Barcelona. So, territorialization, zero. But, besides, these two units form part of the Public Health Service Portfolio of the Catalan Health Institute. And at least in one case there are multiple complaints and evidence of poor functioning, to say the least. I'm talking about the UFAM of the Hospital de Sant Joan de Deu. Already in the last legislature it was evidenced in this chamber that we had a difficult problem. The Councilor of Salut at that time, Toni Comín, was responsible for putting solutions to this issue. Is that all right, Counselor? No, no, The head of the UFAM has retired, but the team that continues to work is the same, with the same logic, without a gender perspective, I would say that without empathy with the infant and using even statements that have been put in doubt for judicial sentences. When there's a complaint, most of it doesn't end up hearing it. Processes are long, long, long years, with unprepared professionals and with constant revictimization of victims. Set_de_de_de_de cases reported, in fact, do not arrive nor to the court. And when they get to judgment, we have to make the process much more agile, much easier for the victim, much more secure for everyone. It could already be betting with much more courage for the pre-constituted test; it has great advantages, this technique; it is accepted legally, internationally recommended, it does not need to make any legal changes because it can be used, and, in change, currently in Catalonia only uses one-third of the sentences that could have been studied, in this case for Save the Children, of cases of sexual abuse in minors. That can be done now, Counselor. But, obviously, it has to go further. Do we bet on a type Barnahus model, type infant cases, type single space in which we solve the problem that I have denounced before these units detect an abus, but also the same subsequent judicial process of the complaint and pre-constituted evidence? Do we bet on it? Because they said so, we approved it in Parliament..., in fact, the LDOIA, in 2010, and it has not yet come true. And one last element: repair. Having a sexual abuse of childhood is on many occasions an experience that marks your psychological development for the rest of your life. Now there are no public resources of universal access to Catalonia to attend to this childhood. In summary: shortcomings and inefficiencies in prevention, detection, action, repair; any advances in a real cross-sectional strategy, and even you need to re-convictize that they are clearly working poorly and that, in change, they are kept unchanged. You have the powers to protect children's rights in our country. Counselor, governments.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.244.0	To answer the word has the counselor, the Lord El Homrani. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.245.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, Mrs Ribas, I would like to begin by saying that I believe that to everyone in this House right now it is very difficult to explain the size of the mental and personal wound left in someone who has suffered sexual abuse as a child. If you don't know about it, it's one of those things that, like society, looks at us – we look at it – and especially when we take away data from Save the Children and we know people, all of us, that even when we look at it, it's still more worrying a reality: that the sight of sexual assaults that a child or a child has experienced has remained in his or her familiar environment; it's still..., the look is much harder, because it shows that the environment that should be the primary protection of the child is failing, that the environment that everyone and everyone agrees that any child has to be able to have, that it's his or her family life, failing. God's night. It's one of those things that's gonna keep us looking at each other, that's gonna put us in front of each other like society, and that's gonna make us reflect. And especially these days, we went out people, people, men and very brave women to explain what happened when they were infants, in many cases. From here on out, it's one of the most sensitive issues we're close to, not managing: it's the most sensitive challenge we're close to looking to donating solutions from all walks of life. I suppose... we've known each other for a while, Congresswoman, and I've come up with a cross-section, because that's part of the job we need to do. From here, I do place four great objectives, which I believe we have shared, in general: awareness, prevention, detection and protection. In the end, the perspective has to be linked to these four great goals. How to eradicate these abuses, still in the public sphere, still in the educational sphere – we have not known many cases – or in the public sphere of another type, in the social sphere, but also in the intimate sphere, in the family, that of the network of amistates. This requires awareness; a lot. And that's why I have to say that both the answer given by Councilman Bargalló to the question that was made in the previous plenary as the reason that came out this morning is part of one of those key areas, which is the school; with cross-sectionality, but it's key – and we haven't talked to the Councilman. Because in the end we answer three of the objectives I wanted to summarise, from the school field: awareness, prevention and detection. They are three objectives to which we can give answers from this area. And the exercise that Counsellor Bargalló has done to situate... – because as society does not like to look at us at the glance when there are things that we do not like, we try... –, this exercise to clearly situate this challenge in the field of education is important. Also from an honest exercise, because I think he's close... – I think he's close – like the mature society that we are, we need to recognize that zero risk does not exist, neither at school, and that what it is to equip us with the tools necessary to prevent rape and minimize its risks. From here, I will not go very deeply into all the work that has already been discussed in the interrogation of Councillor Bargalló last week, and in the motion of this week, but I believe that it is a first step that reinforces three of our objectives, and it is an environment where the ability to detect, to be aware– first, to be aware – in roles, stereotypes, to take over children... It is very important to be able to detect, not only at school, but also possible realities in the family environment– is very important– ; the ability to generate changes in roles, to situate... – and you have said it–, to address in a much more complete way the sexual and affective education of children and children is one that allows us to... and we cannot fail. And I think that this has to be very, very strict and I think that a very important step has been taken in an environment where sometimes we seem to be suffering from looking at each other, and finding that at school they give situations of violence, situations of sexual abuse, that at school they can detect family situations. Another environment – I suppose we knew each other, and we already had a little connection –, hi. I believe that the work that has been done in this last month of the review of the Clinical Protocol on Child Abuse, which came from 2008, which was carried out with clinical experts, with scientific societies, with DGAIA, is a proposal that seeks to ensure an effective response to the needs of these children. Rethink a 2018 protocol, situate and explore various times as we avoid revictimization, as we work together on other aspects that allow us to better detect. The document is now in the language correction phase, and its presentation to April principles is foreseen. The new Protocol for the Abuse of Children and Adolescents in the Field of Health proposes, among other measures, a territorial functional unit rate for the treatment of cases of sexual abuse and ill-treatment in children and adolescents. We share this vision of territorialization. And what's more important, to get another shot at taking over another environment where we can detect many situations, and eliminate a problem, which I think we all agree – and now I want to get into the complexities – is how we fit resources that don't give an integrated response to the need for child and adolescent abuse victims. As we make protocols, apart from being good, they're pretty well known to professionals. And that's training in all fields: CAP, schools, reading centers... Sometimes, the same actors that are part of the specialized attention have doubts and are producing dysfunctional and secondary victimizations. There are gaps in the coordination, and I think that – we have located it – I will have the occasion, surely in the second part of the answer, to go into depth, because I think it is one of the projects with the most meaning, right now, that we have respect, and it is the Barnahus unit, that we are taking to Tarragona – we talked about it on other occasions. And we are working together with the Department of Education, the Department of Health, the Department of Justice – key –, the Department of Interior and the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, and it is one of those units that you have a very particular esteem for it, because we think it can be an absolutely necessary change. And the other element that I think we all have going on is how we avoid secondary victimization in cases of child sexual abuse. And this also requires avoiding duplication of resources and services. That's why Tarragona's model, for us, is key. It's time to give this answer, because, last... with all the goals I've set, last and last is the protection, the training and even the protection of infants and adolescents. But it is essential that the first three, that awareness, that prevention and that detection work...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.246.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.247.0	... because protection is as little as possible, because we have been able to avoid these situations.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.248.0	Counselor, time is running out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.249.0	Then let's continue the conversation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.250.0	It's the congresswoman's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.251.0	Counselor, Education, Greeting, Justice, Childhood, I suppose we agree that they are the departments that most have to do with this topic. There would be no more, but these are the most involved. All in the hands of the Republican Left, now and in the last legislature. They're not worth pilot testing now; we're not at this time. He can already do something, something, something. And besides, it's defined who this is something. I went to the concrete; effective things, proven in other places, in other countries that work, that can last long, that tell society here: to education, sexual education. Look, all right, we've already approved it; put it on the way as soon as possible. Effective measures: Sexual education reduces the risk of sexual abuse in minors to half. In countries where there is a comprehensive sexual education with a gender perspective from the early childhood, half the cases of sexual abuse are reduced to minors. Justice; a unique, integral space, the Barnahus, the homes of the infants. We are not for pilot tests, put it in already – already. And following the European recommendations that exist respect those countries that already have this type of service in the past. And in salutation the UFAM continues to function at the Hospital Sant Joan de Deu. A unit that has been censored for the judgments in its reports. A unit that the very professionals of salvation have said..., denounce how the seas have to go to explain before the child or possible daughter abused what it is that has happened; how they have to feel before the child or daughter as the professionals of UFAM label them manipulators or tell them they are lying, and that child or daughter, then, before that same professional, will have to explain that he has suffered an abuse. Do they really think this works? This has been reported in multiple cases. denounce children or girls, children, children, do not end up explaining what has happened to them before a person who is giving her mother that she is a liar. But it is also that UFAM continues to use in its reports statements of the style: "The mother has infected the daughter, "she has morbid concern for the daughter, or so on, the parental alienation syndrome. They can't say that, because "parental alienation syndrome is forbidden to use it for the same General Council of the Judiciary, is not recognized by the WHO. But what they're saying is exactly the same thing that defines the alleged parental alienation syndrome, which was named after a North American psychiatrist who proposed that in case of abuse or abuse of a mother's father, the solution was to take away that child's custody of the mother and give it to the abuser. This is happening in Catalonia. Now there are even mothers who lose custody of their child because they have gone to UFAM and the report that they have done has been that there is no evidence of this abuse, that the mother has probably lied, that the mother has probably manipulated the child and that this has resulted in the loss of custody in a family or criminal proceeding and the abuser. This is happening right now in Catalonia. I have been denounced by Mrs Gemma Lienas last parliamentary term, and I shall return to say with all the voices and consonants in this Chamber and in this House: Counsellor, if this does not change immediately they are complicit, in the end, you. They're accomplices to what's happening to these sons or daughters who are in the hands of abusers and who have come to ask for help from public servants. I'll get back from a punch once in a while to this kind of functional detection unit, that's not what works. They know that's not what works. It's not just territorialization, it's not that type of unit; it's that there's a gender perspective in these units and they have to go connected to these children's homes. Not another case, Counselor, that I'm putting on my desk, on my phone, on my e-mail, on families that are patenting these same circumstances. And I'm continuing to rebuff it, counselor. Not one more case. We're not in a pilot test period. It's up to us to put in force forceful measures. It is up to us to implement quickly effective measures of great impact. And they can do it and they can't change laws to do these things. And now we can be making an integral approach to all the levels involved.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.252.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.253.0	Counselor, governments. It's his responsibility, this integral view, and forcing the rest of the departments to move. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.254.0	Congresswoman, thank you. It's the counselor's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.255.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Members, no, we are not talking about a futureable, we are talking about a reality that is being built right now, that is a unit of integral intervention, that gives attention and that improves the awareness that is being done in this country throughout the situation of sexual abuse and other abuse, of the following ways: helping victims to report and ensure their security in the complaint process, including in the context of the prosecution process, preventing the co-ordination of multidisciplinary teams, and reducing the number of victims of sexual abuse and other forms of mistreatment, especially in the context of misdemeanours, in the context of misdemeanours, in the context of misdemeanours, in the context of misdemeanours, in the context of misdemeanours, in the context of misdemeanours, in the context of misdemeanours, in the context of misdemeanours, in the context of misdemeanours, in the context of misdemeanours, in the context of misdemeanours, in the context of misdemeanours, in the context of misdemeanours, in the context of misdemeanours, in the context of misdemeanours, in the contexts, in the contexts, in the contexts, in the context of misrepresenting, in the contexts, in the contexts, in the contexts, in the contexts, in the contexts, in the contexts, in the contexts, in the contexts, in the contexts, in the contexts, in the contexts, in the contexts, in which the contexts, in which the contexts, in the contexts, in which the contexts, in which This unit is doing – I told you – with Greeting, Education and Justice, following this model, which is a model that we all share, that of Barnahus. And the key element is that the victim, from the first revelation to the end, has a treatment of psychological support. And at times it is a matter of offering a friendly space to the infant and adolescent, who are the ones and professionals who are displaced to care for the infant, not the other way around, and thus avoid one of the aspects that concern us, that is the police-hospital-jutjat-DGAIA circuit, that is a circuit that is shown to be harmful to the infant, that revictimization. And we'll pull it in, and we're pulling it out and we're working it out. I mean, this element is clear and it's working with all the strength it can have. With Greeting, we have adapted the protocol; with Education, this aspect has already been placed, and with Justice what we are working on, and with Mosos, is to avoid this re-victimization of the same circuits. But, in the end, we also have to remember a reality, and I think it is also good to take advantage of this moment to locate it, because it is absolutely necessary, that it is: the victims who have the courage to come out, after many years, already feel adults, of situations that have lived many years ago, we have to get them to pay for the culprits. And this is another element that concerns us: to change the amount of the prescription term for abuse crimes or sexual assault, to count it from the day the victim completed the thirty years. To promote actions which also allow, in this exercise of consciousness, that there is no feeling of impunity, because I believe that the most striking of us now is the courage of many people who emerge after many years is the feeling of impunity, when this crime has already prescribed. The reality of the whole unit will keep it and we are working on forced marches to hold it, just like the 2017 protocol – and you have placed it –; I think it will be a step forward, a step forward very important. We are aware and continue to work in the formation of all the teams, not only of the teams most related to the department that I am close to coordinating – DGAIA, EAIAs, social services... –, but in the field of education and in the field of salvation, because detection and protection skills are key to avoiding this look that we all dislike. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-03-20-2701.256.0	Counselor, time is running out. Thank you. When this inquiry is over, we suspend the plenary until tomorrow morning. Thank you.
