ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. Before we begin, I must say that, in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure, Deputy Alfonso Sánchez, with the right of fatherhood, has delegated his vote on the day of today to Deputy Lorena Roldán, spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Question to the Government on the banalization of violence to the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation]] [[300-00212/12]] Let's keep the order of the day. The tretzè point is the inquiry to the Government on the banalization of violence to the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it, has the word the deputy Mr Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.2.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, those who have had the delicacy of being here today. I won't take that into account, anyway. But I would like, even if we are in the family, to make an inquiry that is not just the councillor, but that is an inquiry at the joint meeting of my separatist fellow citizens, at the joint meeting of my fellow citizens that defend the separation of Catalonia from the rest of Spain, and, ultimately, an inquiry that I believe is important that it is not just the councillor, but also the Catalan society in general and the joint meeting of the Spanish society. Mrs Conseller, I am asking you again today and I am doing so to speak once again of the Catalan public media that depend on your department, on the Department of Presidency of the Generalitat, and I say to you at the outset that, although I will try to do so tactfully, I will tell you things that you will not like, but I think it is essential to tell you. To begin with, neither you nor your Government like to see Spanish spoken in Catalonia, and even less so in Parliament. We already know that for Mr. Torra speaking Spanish in Catalonia is a thing that is not normal, that it is a thing proper to beasts mad with human form and that, for you, speaking Spanish is a sad, worrying and segregating thing. That is why I have decided to make this intervention in Spanish despite the fact that I have always spoken Catalan to you personally and have made the calls in Catalan on other occasions. But I think it is important that politicians and potential citizens who defend their thesis and consider this kind of comment normal, such as that you made in a plenary session of the city council of your locality..., that it seems normal to say to you, to attack a councilman of Citizens who speaks Spanish to representatives of Andalusian associations, because that secretes, and seems almost like a contempt to those citizens, seems absolutely delusional to me. And I'm telling you without any acrid. It seems to me that it is incomprehensible that in Catalonia we have normalized discourses as dramatic, as morally degrading, as telling a councilman of a party like Citizens that speaking Spanish to fellow citizens who are Spanish speaking is a sad, worrying and segregating thing. That is why I think it is important to tell them some of the truths of the boatman and not to treat them with the indulgence with which some political parties treat them, which seems that you can afford to say what you want, nonsense of that kind, and that absolutely nothing happens here. Just like what Mr Torra said about the Spanish speakers or his claim that speaking Spanish in Catalonia is not normal. I assure you, Mrs. Budó, I do so without any acrid. I do so precisely because I believe that in order for there to be real coexistence in Catalonia there must be respect for linguistic plurality, the plurality of feelings and the idea of Catalonia as an inclusive society and not as a monolithic society, which aims to expel all those who do not share the nationalist theses. I sincerely say that it is essential for you to listen to the Catalans who normally feel Catalan and Spanish, to those Catalans who we speak with absolute Catalan and Castilian normality. And not only with normality, but even with pleasure, some, for whom speaking Spanish is not an anomaly, rather quite the opposite, exactly as it is not an anomaly speaking Catalan. I invite you, Mrs Budó, as it does not seem that you have just convinced what I am saying, to tell me just one example of a representative of a constitutionalist party, whether Citizens, the People's Party, the Socialist Party, who has said homologable things to which Mr Torra has left written. I would encourage you to come out here and tell us whether there really is a representative of any constitutionalist party who has said, for example, to say something, that it would be a real aberration, that speaking Catalan is the same as wild beasts in human form, or that speaking Catalan in Catalonia is not normal, or that speaking Catalan in the whole of Spain is not normal. I assure you that you will not find any representative of any constitutionalist party who says such nonsense. That is why I think it is important that we start to say things clearly, without any kind of astounding, without the will to confront, but simply trying to get you to reflect, to get your voters to reflect, and to realize that coexistence cannot be based on you saying what you want, insulting the Catalans speaking Spanish, insulting the Catalans constitutionalists, systematically insulting the rest of the Spaniards, and absolutely nothing happens here. Well, well, speaking of TV3..., and so far I have not done a different thing, because what happens is that TV3 has clearly become a belt of transmission of its messages, of its degrading messages, from the moral point of view, insulting to a majority of citizens of Catalonia; it has become a formidable apparatus of agitation and propaganda at the service of the separatist cause. Proof of this is that there are more and more voices in Catalonia that are critical of the way TV3 is done; that they are critical of this tendency to always use the language of the separatist parties, when they speak of "political prisoners, when they speak of" exiles, when they use other kinds of expressions that are part of the nationalist hierarchy and spread urbi et orbi false UN resolutions or international support for the process, when they directly deceive the citizens of Catalonia and generate a state of opinion of confrontation with the rest of Spain and of contempt for the Catalan constitutionalists, to the Catalans who simply want to remain part of Spain respecting us and also respecting the rest of the Spaniards. All of this, however, we have spoken in previous appeals, but today I want to focus on an aspect that seems to me to be the most serious of what is happening on TV3 and in the public media in Catalonia in general lately, which is the trend towards the trivialization of violence that is taking place on TV3. This trivialization of violence has been denounced on other occasions. For example, with the absolutely disproportionate presence of a character like Mr Otegi; let's remember, an unrepentant terrorist, a person who has never asked for forgiveness for the crimes of the terrorist gang of which he was the leader of the political arm, has never asked for forgiveness, and goes to TV3 and presents him to us as a nice, affectionate man, practically the friend of Catalan society. I remind him that a few weeks ago he was present at the FAQ and there was a promotion that, to me, really, seemed literally degrading, execrable; a promotion in which Mr. Otegi appeared with the hostess of the program, compadre, with the song Forever Young, in the background, and Mr. Otegi presenting himself, therefore, that, as an impassable person. It cannot be that in the public media of Catalonia presents an execrable character like Otegi as a kind, affectionate subject and that must be respected by the Catalans as a whole. That you were interviewed? Perhaps – I have my doubts, morally, that you interviewed an unrepentant terrorist – but, please, that you did not interview him as an affable character, as a character that is worthy of the consideration of all the citizens of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] Do you really think it's normal for someone like Otegi, a character like Otegi, to be given that exquisite treatment in the public media in Catalonia? Unfortunately, I assume that my question is rhetorical, that you will certainly not answer me. Or maybe yes, or maybe I end up saying that what Mr. Otegi says or what is done with Mr. Otegi on TV3 is actually normal, because it is very similar to the treatment you give Mr. Otegi, Mr. Carles Sastre or what Mr. Torra says about the reality of Catalonia. In any case, this trivialization of violence has reached paroxysm when in recent weeks it has become a true hero of our community to Mr. Paul Engler, a sociologist who says things such as that it is necessary to provoke a civil rupture in Catalonia for the nationalists to achieve their goal and that dying as a martyr is an inherent thing in the winning movements. For this gentleman, who says foolish sizes, has been interviewed on TV3, has been interviewed on Catalonia Radio, has been interviewed on 324, TV3's 24_hours channel, as if he were a hero. And it has also been recommended to read his texts; among other things, an interview in which he says all these beautiful things and some more, that I recommend, in fact, that people read it so that we can see the moral cadastre of the character and above all of the character who recommends it, which is Mr. Torra, the president of the Generalitat, when this man, I insist, is appealing to the civil rupture between Catalans. Do you think it is normal for the citizens of Catalonia, that we pay with our taxes a public television like TV3, we have to pay the interview or the tour that has been organized to Mr. Torra's new guru for greater glory, of course, of the divisive ideas of Catalonia, to fragment Catalonia, to continue with the moral degradation that TV3 is imposing in Catalonia? That we should pay for it among all of us? May the citizens of Catalonia who want to remain Spanish, who we share, respect and feel solidarity with the fate of our Spanish compatriots, pay for such an exercise of moral degradation as the public media in Catalonia are doing? Do you think it's normal? It seems inadmissible to me. And I have few examples of the spurious use of the public media beyond what we have seen with Mr Engler's enthronement as the new idol of Catalan nationalism. I find it very troubling that you have made this kind of imposition on the public media of a clearly divisive message. The last example we have had..., two very recent examples that I comment on and I would like you to value and tell me if it seems reasonable to you. We have seen Mr Jordi Cabré, a typical Tertullian of programme 324, saying that it is not the same as saying 'democracy in Catalan' that saying 'democracy in Spanish, in an exercise of nationalistic supremacyism of the most rancid, and to the presenter...', or to the presenter, in this case, it seemed to him the most normal thing in the world. And the last, of which I will go further in my next speech, was Mr Puigcercós, former president of Esquerra Republicana, saying that Spain endures one, two or a hundred deaths due to the issue of the process. Do Catalans really have to endure such moral degradation? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.3.0	To make the answer has the word the adviser of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.4.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... first of all, tell him, Mr. MP, that what is sad, what is delirious and what is secretive is his attitude, the attitude of his political party, the attitude of his parliamentary group. But, in fact, we already know that your political party was precisely born with this end. That Catalonia is a homely land, you don't have to come and explain it to us - we know, we've lived it and we've worked so that's it, and that's what we're going to do, as is our responsibility, but above all as the country of the people of Catalonia. And if we enter, then, already to talk about his inquiry, what he was doing about the banalization of the violence against the Catalan Media Corporation, let me tell him that in reality what you are doing here is not exactly that; what you are doing is generating and bringing back to the Parliament of Catalonia his demagogue about the real political conflict between Catalonia and Spain; his lies, that they want to impose a false report without importing them, and his own contradiction, his own contradiction when for a band they demand the independence of the public media from the control of the Government and for the other they are in the hands of the government that intervenes in the media. Therefore, it will not be me, as the Councillor, nor the Government of Catalonia who will evaluate the contents, the programs or the professionals of our communication media. We don't have to do this to the government, and you already know it. In fact, as you well know and I will again explain, it is you, the deputies and the deputies, who directly exercise this control through the Corporation Control Commission of this very Parliament. In fact, as you well know, and you know, it's on this committee's mark where you should have brought this question, for which it refers to this inquiry. But, in fact, and as you know, he has already done so, because, yes, the media of the corporation have their own mechanisms of control outside the government in which the deputies of the Parliament of Catalonia participate, as you were able to do, if I don't recall badly, on 29 November. So – so – your object here in this Parliament is still the same as every time you ask about communication media, because your object is not to ask, it's not to talk, it's not to talk, it's to talk, it's to do a media game that you already have used to. And they do it because they want to build a report, a report that by a lot that the repeater will still feel fake, a report that by a lot that the repeater will still feel completely non-existent. Look, I'm telling you right from the start, this country will follow the model of linguistic immersion that you don't like, and it will follow the model of public communication media that you don't like, because they are successful models, they are models of social cohesion guarantee, and above all, they are models of change to our society that have allowed the social ascent to Catalonia to function. And if we go into our public communication media, I'll start giving data, that I know you don't like these data that show the quality and good reception of Catalan public communication media by Catalan citizens, but, look, the data are coughing, and the data are clear: TV3 brings twenty-seen_months as a result of being a hearing leader. And they also know that the information, besides having some excellent results, are also leaders in all editions and are the most valued in quality, impartiality and credibility. Do you honestly believe that people do not exercise freedom of information when they decide to press the command button and watch TV3? Seeing the audience data we have, do you think the city of Catalonia is not mature and does not freely decide what you want to see? Because, look, it turns out TV3 is still leading the audience, although you don't like this. But the conclusion is easy: most of the citizens of Catalonia see TV3; most of the citizens of Catalonia want TV3, although you don't like TV3. And what they're supposed to do is accept it, considering they're playing the rough game they're playing. Because, look, in a society, when there is a strong social unrest, like Catalan society, when there is a political panorama immersed in confrontation, when protests and mobilizations are produced, the role of communication media is cabdal; and it is necessary to avoid the retreat from the point of view of rights, freedoms and democratic values. But, of course, those who practice repression do not like it. Allow me to read you two quotes, one by George Orwell, who said... in the Looking Back on the Spanish Civil War, said: "I first saw Spanish journalistic information that did not keep anything to do with the facts, nor only the relationship that only existed in a normal lie. I saw, in fact, that the story had been written not in terms of explaining what was happening, but in terms of explaining what was to happen according to the party line. Go ahead, whatever you want. And the second quote, that of the Reuters Institute of Oxford University, says: "Spanish communication media, the least credible in Europe and the second least credible in the world. But, of course, if you're looking with your questions, with your complaints and with your constant attacks on the Catalan public communication media, if you're really looking for those models that Orwell or the Reuters Institute are following the models that the Catalan corporation is going to follow, then I'm already saying no. To the Catalan corporation, they will not find us nor will they ever find us exercising these types of control and communication. Catalan society is a mature society, it is a society with criteria and it is a society with a critical capacity. And it is also a society that compromises with the values of freedom and democracy. And it's an open society in the world. And the world looks at us. And the world has looked at us. He also looked at us, and he did not talk about the banalization of violence or the king of all this, nor did he just talk about violence, the world; he talked about massive demonstrations, he talked about waves, he talked about marches, he talked about mobilizations, he talked about protests, he once referred to aldaruls – to aldaruls, which also went through – but, look, basically, they stressed that the Catalan movement has always been peaceful – peaceful –, I repeat, peaceful. And so it was also transferred from the Catalan public media of the Catalan corporation. I repeat it: marches, freedom, mass protests, vagaries, consequences of the vagaries, peaceful protests and also of aldaruls, also of infiltrators and some hostile attitude of some minority group. But rape, terrorism, that's not what anyone talks about; that's what you're talking about, because it's a false report. For a lot of what they're saying, it's going to be a fake story. Miri, the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, like the international press, does not trivialize violence. TV3 does not trivialize violence, Catalunya Radio does not trivialize violence. What is very difficult – in fact, what is serious – is how you frivolize with violence. That's what's completely intolerable. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.5.0	To make the answer is the return of the deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.6.0	Yes, thank you, President. Madam Counselor, you and I definitely live in radically different worlds or parallel realities. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, but I'm telling you because we're going to see things. Do you feel that it is normal for the youths of a political party such as the UPC to burst into hammers of other political parties? Do you feel normal? [[Greetings.]] Come on, it's just, for me, that I really want to continue living with my fellow independents, it would be perfect to say, "Well, they're small. Listen, no, it's that anywhere else in the world is a sign of fascism, of totalitarianism, so don't tell me this is all normal. [[Greetings.]] If it seems normal for you to have a President of the Generalitat who refers to the Spanish-speaking people as wild beasts in human form or to have a government spokesman who refuses to answer in the majority language of the political community of which he is a government spokesman, to me who will explain it to me, because that is completely abnormal, it is a sign of linguistic supremacy. Let me tell you more, than Mr Jordi Cabré, who held positions of responsibility in his governments, who is the nephew of Mr Trias, who says things like it is not the same to say "democracy in Castilian that "democracy in català, in a clear exercise of racist supremacism, racist cultural supremacism. And that doesn't mean that the presenter – the presenter in this case – blames you and says to you: "Hey, are you realizing that you are saying that Catalans are culturally superior to the rest of the Spaniards? It's a real nonsense. You live in this bubble that everything seems absolutely normal to you, but I assure you that such comments anywhere in the world are not found. Look for me, I insist, I wish I would come out here bravely and look for a character homologable to Mr Torra in democratic Europe or in the rest of Spain. Maybe you'll find it in the authentic Finns, maybe you'll find it in the Vlaams Belang or you'll find it in National Democracy. But among the constitutionalist parties that we are present in this chamber you will not find a single politician who has said nonsense like Mr. Torra said in his writings four days ago. Really, you won't find them. Moreover, Mr Puigcercós, former President of Esquerra Republicana..., I insist, Esquerra Republicana, who then present themselves as the adalides of moderation, which the Socialist Party intends to turn into partners of government, is a real drama that the Government of a nation like Spain can depend on the votes in favour of a party that has leaders like Mr Puigcercós, who says that Spain endures one, one hundred or two hundred dead by the process; that these people do not have complexes, refers with tremendous contempt to the Spaniards, and now some claim that the Government of our country depends on such radicals. Yes, radicals, you have to call things by their name. Mr Puigcercós, Mr Carod-Rovira, Mr Junqueras himself when he talks about genetic differences between Catalans and Spaniards, as he says..., is a real barbarity; it is a real nonsense that this has become normal today. And you can keep coming out here to say that everything is normal, that you are a peaceful movement, that I certainly do not deny you that there are many independentists who are peaceful, but it is you who boast of a kind of discourse that is completely morally degrading, it is you, the nationalist politicians, who degrade the public life of Catalonia; not the citizens of Catalonia, do not seek to reverse the burden of proof or try to seek guilty or divert attention. It is you who are making a speech that leads to confrontation, that leads to division and that necessarily leads to the public degradation of a society. Just like when on TV3 the Mossos d'Esquadra are called "gossos". When the Mossos d'Esquadra, the State Security Corps and Forces, which are responsible for ensuring our rights and freedoms are vilified, despised and vexed on public television, that is the principle of the end of democracy in an autonomous community like ours. And you're the ones who normalize it. He comes here to tell us that's the most normal thing in the world. Well, it's not, Mrs. Budo. Feeling so much, you've come too far. And don't let me off TV3, because what happens on TV3 is nothing more than the direct correlation of what you are doing from the Government of the Generalitat. Mr. Torra appeals to the Slovenian way, appeals to Engler's texts, appeals to continue to confront the rest of Spain, appeals to a speech that necessarily leads to division in Catalonia. And that's just what your transmission belt does, which is TV3. They will consider or continue to pretend to tell us that this is normal, but it is not in any way. Really, what you're doing and what you're doing TV3 is the anteroom of the fracture, of the division of a society. You are responsible for the fracture that is taking place in Catalonia, and I insist, you do, no one else does. The things you say..., I wish I would come out here and fight myself and find a single example of a deputy, of a constitutionalist representative who says dislates, nonsense or barbarities like those you say about the subject, and then I'll tell you, I'll come out here and I'll say, "Hey, yeah, it's true, it's a horror that someone says that speaking Catalan in Catalonia is not normal. But you won't find him, Mrs. Budo. It is you who are degrading the public life of Catalonia, it is you who have decided to divide Catalan society in order to achieve its goal, even if it is to rebattle and destroy Catalonia, and it is you who are responsible for the confrontation that today..., and for the fracture that currently presides over the public life of Catalonia. I think you should think about it a little bit. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.7.0	To make the answer is the Councillor's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.8.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, TV3 is not the transmission belt of the Government of Catalonia, I explained earlier. If you want, I repeat to you: the Government does not enter into the contents, and you will keep me here every time in the faristol defending the freedom of public communication media and the lack of control on the part of the Government of the contents or its professionals, to which from here too, I thank the work and compromise that they make every day, because there are quality media, media that are very well valued by Catalan society, despite the fact that you do not like this. Miri, the government is not here to break, nor is TV3 here to break Catalan society, nor is linguistic immersion to break Catalan society, nor is the school to break Catalan society. Who is about to break the Catalan society are you, who were actually born for this. But we all know that, I don't think we can fool each other. You already have us accustomed to constant destructive criticism, always negative, and not to have any proposal for your part, no proposal more than criticism and destruction. No offer. But they already have us accustomed, as I said, to this constant criticism, also against the Catalan public communication media. Now I was reminded of the famous interview made by journalist Lydia Heredia to the president of her political party. His expressive reminder that he took advantage of the occasion to accuse TV3 of being a separatist propaganda apparatus, and, without a glance, demanded that Lydia Heredia ask whom she wanted you to ask. Freedom of absolute expression. So, look, I'll say it again and again: the government doesn't control or control the contents. Who controls the content of TV3 is the Parliament of Catalonia, which is why there are parliamentary control mechanisms, and there is also control of the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia. These are the controls that, precisely, guarantee the independence of the government's public communication media. One type of control, moreover, with strict transparency, because all their reports are published in open and, therefore, are available. What is it that will exercise control and require a hold of accounts from the media directors or the running president? If you want to do this, no problem, it's your obligation as a Member and that's why it's from this Parliament and through the Corporation Control Commission and not from the Government. It's got the tools, and you know it, it's been used, and that's why it's the mechanism from where public media control is to be exercised. And, obviously, control is not only in the hands of the Members and Members of this Parliament, but also the fan of the same corporate professionals, who go for a content with professional criteria, through the Corporate Contingent and Programming Advisor Council, TV3 Professional Councils. Therefore, I repeat again, I will not be as a councillor nor the government who will go in and evaluate the contents, the programs or the professionals of our media. And what I will continue to do is denounce and value his obsession with creating a false report about our public media. I repeat, twenty-seen months of leadership continued and went into the two years of absolute leadership; this is the reality, more than they like, of the public media in Catalonia. And, look, let me tell you that I'm willing to take away this constant controversy, but with you it seems like there's no other way. In fact, I understand that this must not be the way forward: in terms of destroying, they make proposals. I ask them that, they make proposals for this country, but, please, I don't go back to saying in a room like this that Catalan public communication media banalizes violence. Because if you don't like what someone says in a determined program where you are interviewed, you have your media to report it or, quite simply, to change channel [[remorse of the voice]] because freedom of expression has to be guaranteed...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.9.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.10.0	...for the Catalan public media. Look, this is very hard, this is very serious, I ask you not to trivialize the violence again, complaining that public communication means are the ones that trivialize it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.11.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the relevancy of culture in Catalan society]] [[300-00213/12]] The next question is about the relevancy of culture in Catalan society, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Francesc Ten. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.12.0	Thank you, President. Good day, deputies and deputies; good day, counselor; good day, secretaries-general. You need this question so that we can put it back in value, in your parliament, as we have done other times, the treatment, the paper, the recognition that you have to have that in culture. Because, as the very honorable President Torra said last week in the release of the ARC Cultural Industry Awards, if we do not build the country on culture, we will hardly push forward, because that was freedom, culture and talent. This is an inquiry for each of us and for the government officials. It is an obligation for those who defend the centrality and transversality of culture to ask us the question of how we can present culture as a model of great abast, which is asked John Holden, a model that progressively – and the verb is important and it is also for the presumption – marks the course of prosperity. It's a conviction, I don't want to put it on a land of reptes and ideals and utopias; it's an attitude, it's a conviction. And I insist, it's probably just a tenth or less of the budget. In the first place, I wanted to ask you, counsel, about the fact of seeing culture as an inversion. Are not the infrastructures in communication, in networks and in mobility? Is it not necessary to invest in infrastructure that will allow people to benefit? So people's cultural well-being also needs structural endowments. Investing in culture or, for example, investing in culture and health should also be part of a global public health strategy, as are other strategies. The phrase is from Xavier Albertí: "There is nothing more comforting than a malalta soul than culture. The cultural look before life or that people approach the cultural fact, I insist, is an attitude, an attitude that is educated, that is form, that is learned and acquired and that for a little while one takes care of it, he no longer abandons the rest of his life. In economic terms it is very profitable and efficient, but in order to bring this conviction forward, we need that the country's cultural centres are well equipped for this task of introducing culture into the spring of life, into this model that we spoke of as a great abyss. What can you say to us, in terms of future culture and proximity, culture and diversity, culture and participation? Culture is a great instrument of transformation and social cohesion, we have said it and we have repeated it, and we will not tire of explaining it again, because it is a principle we share in the most intense part of us. Do we know the social transformation effects of a new library full of activities in a barrio or in a village? Isn't this transformation much needed that can make equipment in people and in the city and in the city? Culture, if it can be more invisible, does not cease to be as high-priority as other needs are. Culture, knowledge, training are among the most social uplifters, better quality of life, better against inequalities. It happens that if we stay in this intangible and don't quantify it, we stay in conceptual and abstract land. And it's not from abstraction and the concept that goes straight to people, that we open paths and bet by fact and by reality. Leon Battista Alberti, this author of the humanistic revolution of the Renaissance, a period to which you have devoted so many hours of study, said in the book The Advantages and Disadvantages of the Letters that thanks to the examples of these letters we have managed in part to be able to moderately assume the tribulations that clap against us and to avoid them with prudence. I also like to quote in this sense Aina Clotet, that 2015 in a clearer, more sincere and sympathetic way in the book The Cultural Change in Catalonia, by Mr Jordi Cabré, deputy Martin..., said the Aina Clotet : « To me the world is difficult, it is very difficult to hear and come out in the midst of the creative shelters that have generated and that generate artists who are fanciful to feel accompanied. Cultural refuges made for creators and creators, this first trunk of the chain that together with cultural industries and with the Administration place cultural transmission in the margin. But if there is no public, users, consumers – that each person calls him or her as he or she pleases him or her – in fact, if there are no recipients, we can't do it alone, counselor. And why don't we go back to the need to create a public and raise this participatory cultural look that we're talking about. Catalonia, by luck, is rich in creators and artists, but we must give them more support to grow. The cultural sector of small and medium-sized enterprises, medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises are compromised in the country's cultural richness, but the constraint to which they have been subjected is reversed, which can damage the resuscitation of artistic projection in our home and also in the international arena. Also be aware of what represents, in terms of product fabric, GDP, the world of books, the world of heritage and museums, music, the performing arts, the mass migrated audiovisual sector, the gallery sector, etc. The cultural sector, in short, members of the Government, is an important vertex of Catalonia's work as well. It's important. Baptist Alberti in The Advantages and Disadvantages of Letters, in the 15th century, writes of the need for letters not only to be useful to ourselves, but also to collectivity, the social return, which we would say today. And if you'll allow me, I'll ask you to give me a little report on the actions related to social integration in which the department participates. In this better country and new need to represent the role of civil society. Culture was at the first half of the 20th century motor in Catalonia's conformation as a collectivity. Civil society, before the reaction against the State, saw – it has seen – in culture a simple instrument of reaffirmation, artistic and cultural reaffirmation and national reaffirmation. Today, as we recover prosperity and culture as the object of this process that is denied in the state mark. The re-centralisation and the involvement of the state of autonomy that Spain has made has been symbolized in the little sensitivity of this Spanish State to recognize what I have already said timidly in this faristol referring to the differential sections of Catalonia, which obviously affect cultural and linguistic issues and which the Spanish institutions do not share. Who was the State's bet on multilingualism? Are we talking about the audiovisual law that the Constitutional Court dropped? From the participation of the State in equipments? Will the economic eye, the fiscal deficit, advise, affect your projects? She'll advise, before I finish, I'd like to discuss the theme of sponsorship, but I don't have much time. I know his department is working on it, I know it's a more state-run issue. I'd ask you what kind of action we'd pull forward. But he didn't want to end up without denouncing the cultural beast, the scientific beast that the feeling that we met yesterday ordering the immediate delivery of fish from the diocese of Lleida to parishes of Aragó. What do you mean, what actions do we take from your department? It's sad, but man thinks that the judicialization of everything, also of culture, is now a weapon that he wants everything. And now, Counselor, I'm done. I will finish by paraphrase Leon Battista Alberti when he addressed his brother in this book that we have discussed, translated for Alejandro Corollo to Adesiara. Godia: pass on this text of ours, this inquiry, correct it according to your judgment and fire – it adds, will advise – this invention of mine is more pleasurable and worthy of your thought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.13.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, has the word the Counsellor of Culture, the lady Maria Àngela Vilallonga. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.14.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all the deputies, Mr. Secretary General, as well. Mr. Francesc Ten, thank you very much for your intervention. Yesterday came, effectively, the judgment of Barbastre estimate of the demand. We went to Lleida and all the institutions that we are part of the Consortium of the Museum of Lleida, which presides over the Generalitat de Catalunya, we explained that in this process we will arrive at the end, exercise the judicial actions necessary to preserve and maintain the collection. And, in fact, we've already started preparing it. [[Greetings.]] "That's what we have in culture," you said, Mr. MP. This culture is what unites us, lies us, together; in addition to being a social cement, it is a source of pride for our citizens. An essential sector for the country's economy and a powerful driver of attraction for our territories. I allow myself, before entering full intervention, to thank him also the citations of the great Leon Battista Alberti, a conspicuous representative of the Renaissance; of those humanists who in the 15th century were evil to bring the great works of the great Greek authors to the greatest possible proportion of people, that is, evil to spread the culture. Thanks to this yearning to escape the culture it created the print, for example. The humanists of the Renaissance do what we understand today as democratizing culture, bringing culture to everyone, which is what this counselor is trying to do. That's why I appreciate Alberti's record. Culture, to do what? I let this question put to me at the time that I am paraphrased from the title of Josep Pallach's work, Democracy, to do what? It's a good memory. His rich intervention, which I very much appreciate, suggested to me, is what I will try to answer with some concrete data on the return of culture in the economic, territorial and social and national spheres. In Catalonia we have 39,558 cultural enterprises; they represent 34_percent of the enterprises of the State; they give employment to almost 200,000 people, and they provide a volume of business of 11,500_million euros. We have a culturally attractive country, hence the importance of cultural tourism: new tourists say that their visit to Catalonia is the architectural and cultural heritage. We are driving the most innovative sectors of digital culture, such as the video games industry; we have not tripled the billing these past years, reaching a turnover of €367 million. Good economic return data are not, however, correlated with data on investment in culture. We claim more money for culture, because the current figures are less than 1_percent of the total budget. I am convinced that we will all continue to work together to reach the goal that this same Parliament has jointly approved and we will achieve all folds to increase progressively – the word is not trivial – this reversal. We have on the table the preliminary draft law of sponsorship and sponsorship that we would like to bring to Parliament in this legislature. And we want to do it with an innovative and modern vision to promote the new ways of sponsorship, to support the cultural fabric and more than 3,300 associations in our country. I'll ask the whole chamber to help us approve this bill. You were also asking me, honourable Member, whether the fiscal deficit somehow affected the investment effort we are making in Culture; I strongly support it, because we cannot help but remember that the fiscal deficit is a social deficit. Moreover, the Constitutional Court suspended the taxes of the audiovisual and teleoperators, which in two years assumed the loss of 33_million euros to the cinema. With this situation of historical infra-financing, I want to make an explicit recognition to the creators of our country and to the cultural sector in general. Certainly, the sector has always responded with creativity, understanding and generosity. It's time we could give them clear and effective answers. Thus, it is justifiable to highlight the key role of the assemblies and the parliaments in supporting culture. Only from a joint country model and network visit have we been able to bring forward the most important projects, and so we want to continue doing so. For those who return to the territory, we can ensure that we have, voluntarily, a culturally decentralized country. The strategic territorial markets are, for example: to Vic, the Festival of Live Music; to Manresa, the Mediterranean Fira; to Olot, the Sismògraf dance festival; to Reus, the Circus Trapesi; to Igualada, the theatre exhibition for children and youth; to Sitges, the International Film Festival of Catalonia; to Tarrega, the Fira Mercat d'Arts Escènicas. But in Catalonia we have drawings and drawings of festivals from the territory that attract more than 1 million people. I am in a position to announce that the year 2020 we have planned to open a line of grants for festivals of €1 million, which must be aimed at promoting and disseminating visual arts, music and performing arts. We have a great interest in stabilising and increasing the programming of professional performing and musical arts. For this reason, we are satisfied with the data of the Programme. cat, which not only encourages contracting, but also encourages good practices between professionals and programmers. The public library network is another structure that includes proximity equipment. We can celebrate that it covers 94_percent of the territory and follows the pasts of the Commonwealth. I can also announce that this 2020 we will convene a multi-year line of 8_million euros dedicated to the construction and improvement of libraries; that we will increase the budget for the purchase of books by 17_percent; that the Department of Culture follows very much the project of the Central Library of Barcelona: when the Spanish Government is established, we will convene the ministry and together with the follow-up committee; the final model will be the result of a participatory process that will lead the Department of Culture. Culture is a right. The societies that invest the most in culture are the ones that value it the most. This counselor works to strengthen this virtuous circle, because investing in culture is investing in social cohesion and inclusiveness. In this sense, you asked me for examples of departmental inclusion programs that contribute to the integral development of the person in community and social life. A good example is the Argonauts program, which has allowed us more than eight thousand children and children at risk of social exclusion to participate in one hundred and fifty activities and have visited a total of thirty-three equipments; or the social program of the Filmoteca de Catalunya, which has also made, with the program« Back your equipment, that more than two thousand students of different teaching centers and cultural equipments of Raval has integrated into the life of the barri. Another element that allows us to focus on social inclusion is the promotion of the use of our language. The Consortium for Linguistic Normalization is basic. And I also want to highlight Volunteering for Language; more than 137,000 language pairs have practiced Catalan through conversation, allowing the integration of people migrated to Catalonia. It is a programme recognised for the European Community as one of the fifty best practices of learning reinforcement of a language of the European Union, has gone to various Catalan speaking territories and has become modelled in Germany, Italy or Flanders. Finally, well-known is the "Apropa Cultura" programme, a communicative platform that facilitates interaction between cultural equipment and social entities and gives visibility to socio-educational actions with a wide range of shows to a reduced price. The centrality of culture in our society is fundamental, historically speaking and today. I have heard the very honorable President Torra many times and since the beginning of this legislature a few words that you have recalled and that I like to recall again: "If we do not build the country on culture, we will hardly pull forward, because that goes with freedom, culture and talent. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.15.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Government inquiry into the digitization of the product texture]] [[300-00214/12]] The next question is about the digitization of the product fabric, and it is presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, by Mrs Teresa Pallarès. When he wants to. [[Pause.]] We'll ask you, Congresswoman, to expect a few minutes... if we can locate the councilwoman, huh? I didn't notice it wasn't in the hemicle. Excuse me. [[Long break.]] Deputy, now, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.16.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillors, Councillor Chacón, deputies, deputies, very good morning to everyone. From the start, counselor, thank you for being here. I understand that a little tight; let's rest. I must say very clear, very concise things to you, but to thank you above all for your presence in this dialogue, because it is an absolutely critical issue for our country, which clearly affects this evolution and transformation of the industrial fabric in Catalonia. We understand and are public, well-known, their commitment to the defense of this product fabric and in general of the economic activity in Catalonia. If not, it is an important activity for the generation of jobs and the opportunities they have to see with the quality of life for everyone. We appreciate that concern. And it's important that today we can expose him and explain to us what work has been done from his department in one of the areas, let's say, that affects the whole fabric of the product. In fact, I believe that all the parliamentary groups, who are present in this chamber today, agree that one of the main engines of the Catalan economy is and has always been its tradition – I think we need to talk about "industrial tradition in Catalonia". And, in addition, Catalonia, has always been able to find itself in industry and also in a very obvious way in innovation a way to grow that overlaps with the fact that it does not have a state that works for it, or, in many cases, that you allow it to fight the interbanks to have a state that at certain times has worked against this fabric. Today, and despite the global evolution that has placed the services as one of the main axes of any economy, Catalonia still has a strong industrial base. We are talking about 20.7_percent of the VAB, a higher percentage than the European institutions recommend – the European Commission recommends approximately..., or on the 20th, to be on the 20th year of 2020– and much per month from the Spanish State, which is at 15.9_per_cent. A situation that is also explained by a consensus of country around the industrial sector that we have already reflected on the 17th year with the National Pact for Industry – once again, with a record for Councillor Rull, who also had an important role to play in bringing it forward – and more than anything else to point out that it was achieved with the participation of all the different political parties, but also employers and unions, clearly marked to defend and empower one of the great actions that we have in our home. Of course, however, she would advise, that we are in a time of change, but I am inclined to be aligned with that we are in a time of change, and in this sector I believe that it is in a very obvious way. Today I would like to recall the words of economist John Maynard Keynes, who, already in his thirties, in one of his works, predicted that in the near future of a century—so, more or less already—the problems of production would have been solved for technology and that there would be an offer of benefits and services for everyone; the machines would create technology for the fact of replacing jobs at a higher rate than the occupations are created. Obviously, this speech, a hundred years back, may not have just been heard, but now we see some of these issues directly affecting us in some of the points that are precisely reworked as important axes of work between this National Pact for Industry. It is true that there are many and diverse technologies that appear and impact on our day, and, of course, impact with concrete business models, on product models, on consumption patterns, and, of course, on work models as well. We are already living what is well-recognized as the fourth industrial revolution, and it is imperative that our companies participate, and even so I will ask, counsel, which leader and who continue to lead, our companies, this fourth industrial revolution. There are various sectors where these changes are particularly visible, which touch us very much, such as the automotive sector, which affects people's mobility, which affects environmental issues, etc. – these days we are not talking and debating in different places in this Parliament. It is one of the sectors that also generates the most activity in Catalonia and that has, yes or yes, the obligation to reorient itself towards the new global concept of mobility that affects fully the reinvention of this sector. Therefore, it is urgent and necessary to establish measures and support the industrial sector to help keep it alive with its attractiveness and, above all, not to lose competitiveness, at a time when global markets do what they do is that any macroeconomic decision of any point on the planet affects us in one way or another; not to talk about micro-political, micro-economic changes, which we also have day by day. We are aware, counsel, that this is not an easy task. Each of the industrial revolutions, we could talk in the industrial sphere..., the whole economic part has been complicated, because any process of change obviously generates opportunities, but it also generates extreme situations, especially for people or businesses, who see themselves more exposed to leading or forming an intrinsic part of this change. So... In addition, these changes are very fast. Basically, today we all see it: there is an application to the mobile and to the end of two days no longer serves you, because one of the new ones has come out; or there is a process in a specific technology, but obviously we are all waiting, with the changes that it will entail in the sectors, for example, from the automotive theme of 5G. And, somehow, those of us who are not millennials, let's just say, that we already have another age, we need to adapt in a very quick way to all these changes that we are living in an absolute way... so with a brutal immediateity. This supposes, as Keynes said at the time, that the heads of people – intelligence, training, training... – also need to be aligned not in very concrete formations, but actually have some skills, very defined abilities, especially to adapt to these changes. Therefore, counsel, this challenge is very great, as I say, because it leads us to redefine the same business models – not to talk about production structures, of value chains... –, to rethink in a very serious way, as is already being done and proposed with very up-to-date measures, with the dual FP – when Europe already did many years ago that is done and here, now, it is a topic that, let us say, for us, is very important – the formation of these workers; the very definition of the places of work, which also implies for the topic of production and for the topic of enterprises, which must be this definition, and the preparation of all these jobs, which also implies for the subject of production and for the subject of enterprises, which is to be the subject of this definition, and which is to be incorporated into the task and the preparation of all these jobs, so far as we are concerned, so far as we are concerned. But in the same way that we know that it carries a lot of risks, advice, uncertainty, difficulties, we also know that this transformation is inevitable; but I would say that it is annoying. Because Catalonia is a country of entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, and, therefore, this is a repte entrescador that assumes its department. Digital transformation, which many large industries, for resources, for capacity, for access to European grants or technical or human resource capacity themes, can probably be made easier to adopt. But let's think and remember that Catalonia is more than 95 percent of the fabric produced by small and medium-sized enterprises; it's our fabric produced by us. Therefore, all these small and medium-sized enterprises will certainly have more difficulty in accessing technologies at the time, and we will probably have to pay special attention to this collection, which we do not forget that, apart from constituting the bulk of the product fabric, generates more than 70_percent of the occupation at our home. So what we want, what we want, what we ask, is that they can maintain their competitiveness and adapt to this global and inevitable evolution of the industry. It is for this reason, she advises, that even if we are aware that we find ourselves before this phenomenon, that, as I say, it is global, we would like to know, first of all, what measures the Government of the Generality is taking through its department – and I know that also in a cross-sectional way, in many places, with other departments, right? – to ensure that this Catalan industrial fabric adapts to the needs of the 21st century industry, it continues to be competitive and – I add – it continues to be a leader. We want to know what work your department does to ensure that industry access to the new opportunities offered by big data, 3D printing, the Internet of Things or artificial intelligence. And finally, counsel, we would also like to know what is being done to help these small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the programmes directed at small and medium-sized enterprises in this new model which must maintain their competitiveness and survival, which is, without doubt, the survival of the model of country in which we want to live. Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.17.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question has the word now the Counsellor of Enterprise and Knowledge, Mrs. Maria Àngels Chacón. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.18.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, counselor, deputy, deputies, deputies, very good day. Obviously, our Catalan productive economy has a very high industrial base, with this 20,7_percent of the gross domestic product of industrial base, and also makes it attractive, obviously, for foreign investment. Only some figures, such as this 16_per_cent foreign investment that increased this first half of 2019; leads the Spanish State on 30_per_cent foreign industrial investment, and also for what it does to the name of creation of entrepreneurs: with a 2.8_per_cent we grow in Catalonia, and they can't say the same to the rest of Spain. Therefore, it is essential to maintain competitiveness precisely in this globalised environment, the competitiveness of our product fabric. Since the department we've traditionally been doing a whole series of actions, so direct... For example, I would stress cluster politics, one of the most internationally recognized. The promotion of what they are..., the creation of start-ups; until now we have given the xifra of 1,300 start-ups to Catalonia, I believe that by the end of the year this xifra will increase considerably. Also all the internationalization we've been doing all these years, so it affects the competitiveness of our businesses. The more than forty points that we have of the world, these Offices of Action, of course, help. Also all the strategies we do and actions addressed to innovation. And precisely in the case of entrepreneurship, therefore, the month of generation we will present the new reformulation of what was until now the « Catalunya as the program. All right. So this whole sequence of actions, which I don't go into detail to explain right now, let's just take a moment and ask ourselves: before these changes are so rapid and exponential that we're setting up, in this global environment, our minds are ready to integrate these new technologies into their strategies? , are they ready to adapt in this quick way, as they have to do, therefore, to this 4.0 industry? And that's why, if we consider, moreover, that 20th-century businesses were designed in their time for a vital cycle of twenty to thirty years of life for what they do in products and markets, 21st-century businesses no longer obey these dynamics. As a result, the transformation calls for not only, as I said, these new technologies to be integrated into business strategy, but also to be adapted and adopted in the context of Catalonia's industrial fabric. Because we are clear: without companies there is no technological transformation of our country, a country of peppers, and without peppers there will be no industry 4.0 in Catalonia, without peppers there is no revolution 4.0 that is possible. So, then, the first one we have set up, and they also take away the successes of the journeys we have made to knots, to world-class innovation pools, such as Silicon Valley, Korea, Japan, Israel, etc. – Germany itself – we also have the determination to adapt to the maximum, to help adapt to the maximum our business fabric. As you said, much so that the big companies have their own dynamic ones, to this more than 95_per_cent of small and medium-sized enterprises should help them. A few weeks ago we presented precisely, as with the concrete program, Proacço 4.0, which through Action and the General Directorate of Industry allows us to address this adaptation of industry 4.0 to the specific needs of small and medium-sized enterprises. This Proaction 4.0 program is a unique reference window for the small and medium-sized company in its digital transformation. It's a referent, and we address it or divide it into three groups of actions. The first one. First of all, we want to address the need for awareness and awareness of this fourth industrial revolution. If we pause for a moment and analyze the xifra that only a 40_per_cent of the companies in our product fabric are aware of or have taken some measure to adapt or integrate these new technologies, we see a 60_per_cent of the business fabric that is still at risk of not being competitive in a very immediate way. We see this in some sectors; the automotive sector is one. So, so, sensitizing, consciousness is the first. Secondly, what we have set ourselves as the object of the program is to give this support to small and medium-sized enterprises so that they can make a diagnosis of their state and make a strategic analysis. Why? In front of this flood of new technologies – you have mentioned some: artificial intelligence, internet of things... – of course, the small and medium-sized company does not have the capacity or the staff to do the analysis and know which of these technologies has to integrate and which does not. In front of all this rattlesnake, to which we must help them is to do: "Are these technologies suitable for your production cycle? Are these technologies suitable for your products, yes or no? Therefore, consciousness, analysis, diagnosis, strategic analysis, and then we go into action. So we're moving into action with a whole series of economic helpers, so that we're – everyone knows – on extended assumptions. We have, therefore, modified some of the imports that we have in other programmes, we have addressed to this, in the framework of a stable pact, such as the National Pact for Industry, this pact that we take as the basis of consensus in which we must develop the industrial policies of this Government. And from here we give help, yes, tangible, as are the Industry 4.0 coupons, with aid of up to fourteen thousand euros per company; also the lines of credit for an import 150 million euros, here yes, with the Catalan Institute of Finance, and other aids, such as the Innotec programs, the search and development nuclei or the Tecniospring. So, we know, we diagnose and then we do the treatment, in this case, helping economically. And this we do as we always like to do from the department: not for free, but from the hands of socio-economic agents; in this case, from the hands of Pimec, from the Foment del Treball, from the College of Industrial Engineers of Catalonia and the Council of Chambers. The same spirit that inspired this National Pact for Industry is what inspires us in each of our industrial policies. Also – you briefly mentioned this – the automotive sector. This may be a part of explaining what is actually being done, so to give support to a sector like automotive. Therefore, I believe that from this department it is much more than clear the commitment we have to continue working because our businesses are still competitive, and that, as a matter of fact, has social consequences as well. Two years ago we were the first to analyze the labour impact of industry 4.0. Since the Department of Industry, we have analysed the impact of integrating these new technologies into workers and workers. We came to the conclusion that, in the band of formation, there will be a transformation that is inevitable. And I have warned and warned many times: the competitiveness of our companies is a key element that we must preserve; if not, then we will regret, obviously, therefore..., continue to secure, continue to absorb some of them. Therefore, we make this letter of conscience and adopt measures, we put them at the bottom of this industrial fabric that most needs it, and, as I said earlier, we have made it clear that either our small and medium-sized enterprises integrate these new technologies or the fourth industrial revolution, this industrial revolution 4.0, therefore, will be a failure in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the deployment of external action and international relations]] 300-00215/12 The next question is about the deployment of external action and international relations. And the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Adriana Delgado. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.20.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor, Counselors, MPs and MPs. Only a few days ago, the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia admitted the request of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Josep Borrell, and suspended the decrees of creation of the delegations to Argentina, Mexico and Tunisia of the Department of Foreign Affairs of the Generality. It is a new interference of the Spanish Government in the external action of the Generality, which is already paid to the former Government of the People's Party and which was resumed when Borrell acceded to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and which is now in another area. This precautionary suspension of these three delegations, which were not even in operation, is a further demonstration of the repression against the freedom of thought and the political rights of the Catalan Government, one of the hardest demonstrations, since 155, together with the digital decree and also together with the suspension of the Pla d'Acción Exterior by the Constitutional Court. Some of the pearls with which the ministry justifies this show more of repression against Catalan foreign policy is that the activity of delegations is harmful to the interests of the State, that they have a well-defined role within the secessionist plane and that it can be expected that the nine delegations will follow a similar line of action. The ministry is also very concerned to avoid the difficult or impossible damage to the image of Spain and in the foreign policy that has undoubtedly occurred since they entered into operation. We saw, therefore, that the Spanish Government prejudges and gives per fact, even though they were not yet in operation, that these delegations go against the interests of the State, when they do not have to do anything that do not make other delegations abroad, such as those of the Government of Andalusia. And what delegations do, what they have to do is work for the country's international projection; in a world every time more global they have to empower, explain their institutions, businesses, universities, tourism, culture, etc. And we understand that you, counselor, from your department do and, in fact, have to do this work of international projection in a legitimate and legal way, because it is within the Law of External Action that was approved precisely in this Parliament. The Catalan delegations, therefore, intend to explain Catalonia to the world, without intermediaries, and to sail for the better of the economy, for example. His goal is not to mount parties or spend irrationally as the Spanish embassies know. In short, they are useful for Catalonia, for the country, in many levels. And I'm sure if the Spanish embassies are modernizing and really looking for the interests of the Spanish economy in the Spanish state, they'd be better off. The suspension of the court is in addition to other repressive decisions against Catalan foreign action; we have already named some: the suspension of the External Action Plan. Another well-known, the « Borrellgate. And Josep Borrell has been the main player in the Spanish government's anti-diplomatic policy. The outsider, in terms of dialogue, negotiation, has dedicated himself to pressing and blocking, and spying on people based on his ideology. We are talking about a person who is now at the forefront of European diplomacy as the high representative of the European Union for foreign affairs and security policy and vice-president of the European Commission; a person who reveals confidential information from a European citizen like Clara Ponsati; a man who forms part of this committee who passes what he passes always ends up as a coalition between social democrats, populars and liberals; a man who, with his actions of pressure, wear and block, helps to strengthen a Europe subordinate to the state, as we have already denounced in the previous plenary in a motion. In this chamber the mouth of the neutrality of the institutions is not to be filled, but to applaud with the ears when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is converted into the ministry against independence, a Croatian that has often turned into the ministry against Catalonia. It bothers them that the representatives of the Government of the Generality express themselves freely, but have nothing to do with when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs tries to prevent, for example, the Catalan presence at a Scottish film festival. Using the resources of the State to pursue the political rival..., it is precisely the motivation that the United States has provoked the impeachment against the Trump Administration; exactly what Mr. Borrell, a continuist of Ministers Dastis and Margallo, has done. The repression of the Spanish State is public and notoriety, it is known every time more at international level, largely because it is patenting backwards on the part of Europe. We have seen this in the last weeks in different decisions; for example, the views of the lawyer of the Court of Justice of the European Union. And, therefore, the deterioration of the functioning of the Spanish political system is more evident every time. The State is able to seize ideological indexities that are not yet up to date, but the truth is that advanced democracies will not be ashamed because the most influential weeks of Brussels, Politics, interview one of their political prisoners on the front page, as was the case of Jordi Cuixart. To finish the inquiry, I would like to point out that yesterday the Diplomat, the Council of Public Diplomacy of Catalonia – and we hope that you will also make reference to the Councillor – presented a study on the international image of Catalonia to new European countries, according to which, in the way of title, the image of Espanya has taken advantage of the political process while that of Catalonia has improved; a 53_percent of the polls recognize that it has varied from all the Catalan process, but, in concrete terms, a 31_percent considers that it has taken advantage, whereas in the case of Catalonia the figures are contràries, almost inverse, and therefore more positive for what it does to the image of Catalonia. In conclusion, we consider that the delegations outside the Catalan Government are a more powerful area of projection, very powerful, useful, because they are for the interests of the country, at many levels, and they are also a space of finding, of dialog, of diplomacy, by definition. We believe in the'sit and talk', in seeking political solutions to political conflicts. Counselor, what is the value of this new attempt by the Spanish Government to halt the external action of the Generality and how and with what objectives will it continue to work in front of the department for the external projection of Catalonia? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.21.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Alfred Bosch. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.22.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... So, effectively, the external action of the Government of Catalonia is legal, it is legitimate, it is necessary, it is binding and it is useful – it is useful. It serves to explain that we are an open country, that we are an innovative country, that we are an optimistic country. Since the beginning, therefore, they have begun to deploy it with a series of plans that define the external action of the Government of Catalonia, among others, the strategic plan of external action and relations with the European Union of 2019-2022, or the plan of Europe; we will soon approve the plan of Africa; the plan of Japan, which recently celebrated the two years of existence and which we will also renew. And so, with the deployment of delegations, which are necessary, we will soon finish the second phase of consolidation, and on the line of being present on the five continents and that the five continents may be of interest to us, right? So, of course, what value do we have for the resources and for the actions that the Spanish Government is trying to make against this open, innovative, optimistic action of Catalonia, which needs, as any country needs, any city, any, at all, autonomous community of Spain, any company, universities, trade unions..., need to be present in this global world and make this external projection. So the value we make is that we try to prevent, that we try to obstruct and that, therefore, it is a job in denial, a job in denial that we can only value negatively, right? The Spanish Government, therefore, has only acted with the path of denial against Catalan foreign action. You mentioned it, Congresswoman Delgado, didn't you? : the espionage of the "Borrellgate", spying even on citizens outside, thirds, people who spoke, therefore, with our delegates, for example; a servant of yours, too, no? , is present in this information follow-up; the suspension of the External Action Plan; the precautionary suspension of the three last delegations, created in Mexico, Argentina and Tunisia. All of this, of course, we value it negatively. Why does the work we do mean that it is always in place, to try to present Catalonia to the world in a way, therefore, creative, in a way that can seduce even more everyone than it already is, right? , are focused in this country, they are interested in the attraction of this country, from the touristic point of view, from the economic, business, cultural, technological, academic point of view. So this is our job. They say, and even so they say in the resources they have submitted for such a suspension of delegations, or the External Action Plan, or other initiatives... so on the part of the Spanish Government they allege that with these delegations we are damaging Spain, or even, as I said very well, prejudice that we could come to harm Spain before and until these offices begin to function. I don't think that's acceptable. It is not acceptable because there are things that harm the image of Spain. What's wrong with Espanya's image? So, above all, the image of the powers of the State is damaged by the same actions of the powers of the State. That is to say, all that leads to political prisoners, to political exiles; that leads to police acting brutally against people when they are in the act of voting or when they protest, right? It all hurts enormously. All these actions, right? , which has done, on the initiative of Minister Borrell, also the Spanish Government against the external deployment of the country, of Catalonia. Because these actions from the outside are seen from a negative point of view, as it cannot be otherwise: "Why are they prevented from doing so? Why do they stick them to the wheels? Why do they try to hinder and censor these actions? The answer, from the world, therefore, can only be one, and it is that they work in denial, and, if they work in denial, this is seen negatively and therefore harms the image of that country that they say they represent, right? That's pretty logical. On the other hand, of course, for every window that Minister Borrell has tried to close for us, so we're opening a door, a window of opportunity, to say that we are doing well, to say that we want to promote our country. We are not haters, we are not against anyone; we are in favour of the citizens of Catalonia and the citizens of Catalonia, and we are in general in favour of the activity of our country, which is cosmopolitan, which is to internationalize, which wants to be present everywhere. So let's not stop doing it. He also referred to the question that we met yesterday, made for the Diplomacy. You're interesting. And it's got precedents, huh? For example, a precedent is the question that was done a long time ago, a little more than a year ago, the Elcano Institute, the Juan Sebastián Elcano Institute, which is an institution based in Madrid and which, as you know, presides over the King of Spain; therefore, a little suspicious, we must say, to act in favour of the interests of the independence movement. And the results are looking, they're surprisingly looking. For example, this thing that has happened to new European countries, asking the citizen of these countries that they think, reveals that Catalonia is well valued among Europeans, with a 7.3 middle note, a note that we would already like to have a good part of the policies that we are in this room, right? Or that we devote ourselves to politics when the citizen is asked what is the value they make of us; 7.3, man, remarkable. 70 percent of the polls perceive Catalonia as a place where it is easy to negotiate – and this in good part is due to the action of Action and the department that also directs Constellera Chacón. A 88_per_cent values very positively– very positively– Catalonia as a tourist destination. This too, therefore, is a date that must fill us with enthusiasm and confirm that, man, they must not be working so badly when the image is good, and that it is essential to continue in this line, to continue internationalizing. For another band, therefore, it also indicates that Catalonia has become an eminently international undertaking. What they say about internal afer, that what passes politically to our country is a thing of the Kingdom of Spain and no more, therefore, the reality reveals that no; if not, why would it talk to United Nations, why would it talk to the European Parliament, why the Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Union, why the International Commission of Jurists, why Amnesty International, why the International Federation of Human Rights... Why is he talking so much? Home, then, because it's not internal. The question, moreover, reveals that the Catalan case has impacted on the public opinion of European citizens, or on an important part, as at least; a 31_percent of Europeans think that, from everything that has passed the last years, the image of the Kingdom of Spain – not of the country, not of the people, no, the image of the powers of the State – has taken hold, and, in change, a 34_percent, therefore, has failed to conclude that the image of Catalonia has improved. That's what the question says, too. The European citizens, in addition to..., the polls suspend the management of the Spanish Government in relation to Catalonia, and a 60_per_cent believes that the European Union should act as a mediator or give support to the celebration of a referendum. So here they have the European public opinion. When they say: "It is Europe that is out of the question. No, no, The European public opinion, for which we have detected, is very clear and, moreover, I say to them, very similar results which have been obtained in other questions which have not been made, precisely, either from Catalonia or from any other country to the Government of Catalonia. With the Government, therefore, we claim that this European public opinion is still being listened to, that this mediation and this improvement in democracy is also being listened to, and that Europe, as the European citizens say, cannot stand by. Europe must act. Among other things, because Catalonia, clearly, is seen as a country in place for European citizens and as a country that, throughout this political process of the last few years, has, at last, improved its image. Therefore, it is obvious that where there are problems is where the European Union has to be involved. Where are the problems? In action – and so do the European citizens, according to the question – of the powers of the State to the Kingdom of Spain. And we, therefore, will continue with this work, because it is necessary, because it is obliged, because we cannot renounce it and because, moreover, we express our political position as well. We're a government and we need to express our position here and out of the world. We will continue to work for democracy, for human rights and for universal values, which are the European values that founded the Europe that emerged from two catastrophes. And that we want a Europe ahead of us, with democracy and freedom. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about the sacrifices of Catalans as a consequence of government action]] [[300-00216/12]] The next question is about the sacrifices of Catalans as a result of government action and presents it, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.24.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies, it is well known that independence, separatists use Gene Sharpe's civil disobedience manual, isn't it? And in this manual, one of the many revolutionary tactics, huh? , one of the ones that apply – and apply it regularly – is to use certain forms of language until they remain in the people's subconscious, right? And, look, I felt a little bit of a thing, didn't I? , for this fact and, surely, caic in this tempt to use certain forms of language that you use. And so I'm telling you, this question I'm asking you today is about repression, yes? People's Party We're setting up a repression inquiry. Yes, but from the repression to which he has sotmesos, the Government of the Generalitat, to the citizens of Catalonia. This is the repression I want to talk to you about. And we're referring to the sacrifices of the Catalans before the action of government in relation to a pelada, yes, to a pelada of President Torra, which he did last week in relation to an interview with Paul Engler, right? , where he called on the independenceists to polarize more, it is to say, to divide even more the Catalan society, to climb much more, it is to say, beyond the "press, press, press even more, and he ended up accepting other levels of sacrifice. I already know that making an inquiry about a pile doesn't seem normal, but it doesn't seem normal for one thing, because we don't have enough questions to talk about the piles that the president does or that they do from the government, not because they're not relevant, that they are, above all, when he is the president of the Generality and that he has to be the president of the joint venture of the Catalan society. So, let's take advantage of this President's puddle, talking about sacrifices, this end of the session period, to make a balance of which is the situation in which the Government of the Generality will leave the joint venture of the Catalan society at the end of this year 2019, but that, already advanced, there are no surprises. It's enough to look like you had it when you joined the government in June 2018. Let's get some rest. Miri, in the health field. I already know that it will be very cross-cutting, you will certainly not be able to answer very concrete or quite concrete things about certain areas, but I think it is important to talk about these sacrifices made by Catalans. Lists of wait for sanitation, known to the ministry data, which are data contributed to the Health Council: surgical interventions, more than 168,000 Catalans in the list of wait, an increment of 8_per_cent respect the past year; 22 Catalans out of 1,000 are in the list of wait, we are the community that has the most patients per inhabitant in the list of wait, 142 days of midjana, the third community where the citizens have to wait more to be intervened. If we talk about visits to specialists, pass the same; 322,000 Catalans in the list of waits, an increment of 14.2_per_cent respects the year 2018. And to which we add the waiting lists to the diagnostic tests, so we find a total of 700,000 Catalans in the waiting list and we can also add the waiting lists to the primary attention, which are also growing in an important and worrying way. To which we are going to look for a more global little one, so we have this report that the State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services draws up, in which they tell us that the evolution of spending on sanitation in Catalonia during the last two years is the community in which it has gone down the most, in which it has gone down the most. There have been communities where spending has increased in sanitation, but in Catalonia it is where it has fallen the most, that is, the worst of all communities. And, at per capita expense, we also have the double honor of being the community that has a per capita expense in lower sanitation than all of Spain, concretely 1,153_euros per capita and the average of the city council of Spain is 1,295. Let's move on to education. Things don't get any better. The past course was 1,015 barracks in Catalan schools, this course is not 1,019; the community we have the most barracks, the next one is Andalusia, they have between two hundred and three hundred, they have approximately one_five_part of the ones we have in Catalonia. We have more than twenty thousand students studying in barracks. Also in the educational sphere, but already in the university sphere, we have the highest university taxes of all Spain, more than a weak system of funding of the university system. And, besides, there is a problem – and you should start to recognize it, once and for all – at universities, yes, there is a public problem, there is a problem of exercise of freedom of expression. It is absolutely intolerable that it passed back to the Autonomous University of Barcelona yesterday, it is absolutely intolerable and I believe that it is necessary that, once and for all, the Government, as at least – as at least – condemn the attacks on freedom of expression that are produced repeatedly and in a recurring way in university spaces. As a matter of fact, we demand that these parties be condemned. Therefore, I would like to take this opportunity to express our solidarity with the young people of S'Ha Finit! , to defend the exercise of freedoms in the university sphere. Imagine, we must say this, in full 21st century, to defend freedom of expression in the university sphere, because the government does not do so. And, if we're going to see the data I used to quote about education, it's not surprising either. Catalonia is the community that has dropped the most in presuppositional endowment in education in the last two years, the third that least invests per inhabitant, 753_euros before 840 of the middle. We can change the environment and go to the poor energy. They know the "flood" they have because, in application of the Law 24/2015, which was of the poor energy and of the housing-emergency – and that the scope of the poor energy did not have recourse to the Constitutional for the Government of the State, even though it had heavy faults, as you are now seeing – there is no one who pays the energetic bills that the subcontractors have ceased to charge. Basically, because you haven't developed the rule that you have to decide who is to be charged this energy bill and you have a "significant mess with the electricity and the joints, because someone has to be charged this bill, which you said for the law that this, therefore, was not to be charged; so someone has to be paid. And this is a problem that you certainly generated, because you expected that the share of poor energy was also used and suspended in the Constitution, as we have already seen with other laws that have been the way the government operates. On the guaranteed income of citizens, they have conflicts, continuously conflicts. Tindran today a Tindranels young lady talks again about problems with guaranteed citizenship income, there are legislative changes in the way forward. They have the rule to develop and to do, in order to clarify all these concepts and, therefore, this implies that there are many Catalans who, in this area, too, must be making sacrifices, thanks to the government's lack of action. Dependence, more than 75,000 Catalans on the waiting list; a third of the dependents who have recognized their degree do not receive any performance or service, is also the highest waiting list of all Spain. We saw spending data on social policies and Catalonia once again remembers that it is the second-lowest community assumed in the last two years. And, in the mix of social policies, so, exactly the same thing happens, Catalonia is the community – together, huh? – lower also in these two years and the second that devotes less resources per inhabitant to social policies. And, with that, there's no point in saying, "Listen to me, we have some skills that other communities don't have, because they're absolute data, they don't have a relationship with other skills. Catalonia, 2,180_euros per inhabitant, the middle class, 2,420_euros per inhabitant. But more effort! Catalans are the ones who make the most efforts in fiscal policies; we are the ones who kick the most taxes from all of Spain. We pay taxes, at last, to drink a coke. The Catalans of less than €30_000, which is 80_percent of the taxpayers, are the ones who pay the most IRPF of all Spain and, if more than that, we add the flight of entrepreneurs, the decrease of the investment attraction of Catalonia, the loss of jobs to industry– fifteen_000 jobs lost in the industrial sector in the past year–, I therefore believe, by sacrifice, exactly, is not the problem, is it not? And, meanwhile, the president said: "Secute, we need to divide society more. The RDCs must "squeeze harder and make more sacrifices to achieve what they do not know well.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.25.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.26.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies. My honourable Member, in fact, in listening to you, I have made no more than finding out what I have already thought about the statement of your inquiry. They take advantage of the Parliament of Catalonia, again, as a speaker to spread their propaganda speech, populist about a Catalonia that does not exist, because the context and reality of the citizens and the citizens of Catalonia is another very different one. And the truth is I don't think this is the path of politics, nor do I think it's a massive path in favor of its own electoral interests and, if not, I've been on one occasion, that of the CEO's inquiry into the past general policy debate and, to the question of whether the picture that the polls had of the political leaders has improved or worsened after the debate, it turns out that, in this question, the leader of the People's Party is the last to improve and the second that it takes, in this case, to win, only passed by Mrs. Roldán, who has made a whole record. And do you know what's going on? It happens that this country of ours, an entrepreneurial country, a country of solidarity, with strong democratic convictions, a country lived in all senses, a country that advances, and the situation that we live in, is a country that neither deserves nor accepts certain speeches, from which we come... And yes, Catalans have to make sacrifices every day, because Catalans, think as they think, Catalans get up and go to sleep with the weight of the limitation and the regression of the rights and opportunities to their scenario – limitations and regressions as a consequence of the different governments of the Spanish State. So yes, every day, Catalans rise up with a motxilla full of incompliments, deficiencies, injustices on the part of Spanish governments, current and past; incompliments, deficiencies and injustices that affect equally all Catalans and Catalans, visquino on visquino, come from where they come, talk about what they speak, think what they think and vote what they vote. If you want, let's start talking about sacrifices for the lack of Spanish governments' investments. Because if the level of investment assumptions is totally insufficient, the total executed, if it wasn't because unfortunately it's what it is, it would seem like a joke of very bad taste. In Catalonia we have 16_percent of the population and contribute 19_percent of GDP. The State's reversal has to be in these settings, and in change the assumed medium does not exceed 12_per_cent. But, above all, and taking only as an example the last four years, from 2015 to 2018, the State has only executed in Catalonia the 66_per_cent of the assumption. Says in a more graphic way: every three years a free exit. Are we still talking about the sacrifices made by the Catalans, derived from our underfunding? Because it's not just our financing of all injustice and inadequacy anymore, it's that they're overly incomplete of the model we have. As for the new model, it should have entered into force on the 1st generation of 2014, more than five years ago, and we don't know anything about it. And regarding the third additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, 3,808_million euros outstanding as a result of the repeated failure of the State to invest in Catalonia in line with its economic pes. And if we keep talking about sacrifices, it turns out that the period from 2008 to 2016 there was a roll plan that provided for an inversion of 4,306_million euros, which, by the way, has not been and has not been executed, because only a 12_per_cent has been executed. Thus, of these 4,300_million still remain more than 3,700 to execute. I used to say it before: if it wasn't because it's absolutely true, it would seem like a joke of bad taste. And when we look at it more socially, are we talking about the Law of Dependence, as you're referring to it? Because, as you know, the Law of Dependency establishes a public financing in equal shares between the State and the Generality, between the State and the autonomous communities. But, as you know, nothing is beyond reality, because in this aspect the Spanish government has fulfilled its obligation. And the government of the generality, as well as its underfunding, doesn't let the citizens out with a situation of dependence. And so, in 2015, the proportion of the 82_per_cent crazy generality, and an 18_per_cent of the state, and in this 2019 we will continue with these proportions. Are we talking about sanitation? Remember that famous phrase "have we destroyed their health care system? Nothing more to add. Look, what it's certain is that it's the hard failures of Spanish governments for what it does to finance infrastructure and all the other services that affect Catalans and Catalans. But the shortcomings of the Spanish governments went beyond Spanish law. Do you know the report on the application of the law to Europe? Because it is a report from the European Parliament that states that Spain is one of the countries that most fails to fulfil community law; Spain is the third state with the most expedient open to fail to comply with European laws. The same document also says that Spain is the most inconclusive country at the time of executing the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. And all this clearly generates sacrifices to the Catalans. The Catalan society is an open society, it is a European society, which must suffer from the limitation of its economic, social and rights progress for these repeated incompliments of the Spanish governments. And what is another sacrifice that has a direct impact on all Catalans and that you should serve in the first person? And I'm saying that you should act directly and in the first person because it directly affects your parliamentary activity. Because this Parliament has limited and secreted its legislative capacity. In this Parliament, a multitude of initiatives are approved and debated that you will already see the Constitutional Court fall, such as: tax on banks for great fortunes; protecting citizens who have been scammed by mortgages or preferences; ensuring that poor families have light, water or gas; charging a tax for every empty fish and devoting it to social dialogue; making policies of equality between women and men; charging a tax on Internet operators to dedicate it to culture, and many others. And we could also talk about university scholarships, and we could talk about railway infrastructure, we could talk about business hours and a long, etcetera. And a hundred more competitions have made it clear that, for the most part in Parliament, at the time of truth the last word always has it in Madrid. Limiting the legislative capacity of this Parliament is limiting social progress, economic progress and the rights of all citizens and citizens of Catalonia. And, by the way, do you know what the catalans are more like? So the perplexity of seeing the total impunity with which some fail to complete one and the other sentences of the Constitutional Court. I don't get it here. Thirty-four judgments of the Constitutional and Supreme Court in favour of Catalonia that the Spanish State is incomplete, thirty-four: non-completion of judgments in the field of university scholarships, in the grant of grants in the amount of 0.7_percent of the IRPF, in the field of culture, but above all in the field of social services; thirty-four judgments in the field of social services. But in this case the Constitutional Court is disobeyed and nothing happens. Perhaps the day when the sacrifices that Catalans and Catalans have to make each day as a result of the Spanish governments know the most, perhaps that day they will improve their electoral results in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.27.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer is the return of the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.28.0	Thank you, President. Among the lists of sacrifices, which could be much longer, however, I had a couple more points, and I also wanted to quote them, and so I took advantage of this return. Another sacrifice that we make many Catalans: pay for a public television and radio that we don't use – we don't use. They also say the queries that only 14_percent of Catalans did not watch TV3 or listen to Catalonia Radio, 14_percent of non-independence watch TV3 and listen to Catalonia Radio. But it's that, besides, they're some media that ignore us, when they don't insult us, like Catalans, and more television and public radio more dear than all of Spain, right? Well, that's fine. But that's what we're getting at, isn't it? We are already in the Parliament – and I suppose the majority of groups – complaining about the sector..., it is no longer the social sector, nor the health sector, nor the education sector, nor the environment, nor the cultural sector: the theatre companies, art galleries, audiovisual companies come to complain that the government has reduced them, it is not that they have frozen them as regards assumptions, but that they have reduced them, and that we are waging a little bit of it with creativity or the cultural capital of Catalonia and Barcelona too have gone away. And then you tell us a lot of things. Miri, I'll answer some of them. Listen'm, financing of dependence; you know perfectly well that there are two financing lives of dependence: one directly through the Imserso, which is the only one that counts you, which is 17_percent of the expenditure in dependence, and the rest, up to 50_percent, cover it directly through the financing system. You know perfectly well. You don't count this because they don't care to count it, but that's actually it. First question. Second question. Let's go back to this easy resource of "we've destroyed their health. Yeah. Do you know what Innova, Manté, Bagó, the committee of inquiry into corruption in the sanitarium of your party, which we held in this Parliament, means? Do you know? They bought fall knee implants, to implant the patients, in Catalonia. And this was not done by the Government of the State – it was not done by the Government of the State – but by organizations that were dependent on the Government of the Generality. That's tearing up the toilet – that's tearing up the toilet. I say: 'Listen'm, it's a propaganda and populist and such. I don't know if you're propagandist or populist; listen to me, there are 700,000 Catalans in the list of waiting for public sanitation, yes or no? That's 700,000 people with names and surnames. Are there more than twenty thousand students studying in barracks? There are dwarfs who have made the whole cycle of education in barracks! And they have names and surnames! When the President of the Generality started the course and went to visit the school, which went to visit a school with barracks, because you have the idea of what it means to study a whole cycle in a school with barracks. Are there or are there not 75,000 Catalans in waiting lists for benefits or dependency services? Is that populism? Is that propaganda? That's reality; they're people with names and surnames. But, of course, here's a reality that you don't seem to want to, and it's not the Spanish government's fault. Listen to me, all communities have the resources of the Government of Spain. Who less dedicates to social policies is Catalonia, because you have to dedicate it to other things: 2,181_euros per inhabitant; the middle of the conjunct of Spanish citizens that replete their communities in social policies are 2,420. Why do we devote fewer resources to Catalonia than other communities to social policies? Well, you'll answer that if you want to, won't you? But, listen, look, all of it – all of it – I could get to him to admit that some of the things he said he felt. He says: "Well, the financing system. But if you don't go to the meetings of the Tax and Finance Policy Council! Vagina him and tell him where to say it. Listen to me, though, if you have a magnificent opportunity, now that you're negotiating... well, I don't know if you, Esquerra, some, others, I don't know, are negotiating with the Socialist Party the investiture of Mr. Pedro Sánchez. All that you said to me, did you put it on the claim list? No, no, You want me to tell him what they put on the claim list? Amnesty for prisoners, self-determination and rebuff of the monarchy. Ole, you! All the problems we have with Catalans, all the sacrifices we make with Catalans. Are these the problems of the Catalans? The political conflict. Some insistently say: « Esconti'm, that it is recognized that there is a political conflict between Catalonia and Spain. Socialist Party, no, there is no political conflict, it is a problem of coexistence. The problem we have here. And the problem is that we have between the Government of the Generality and the assembly of citizens of Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.29.0	Thank you, Congressman. To make the answer, it's the councillor's turn now, again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.30.0	Thank you, President. Look, Mr. Member, what's worrying is that you don't want to see the Spanish State's combination of hardships with Catalonia, because they are hardships that directly affect all the citizens of this country, think as they think, vote what they vote for; they affect us all. And I didn't name them many, I didn't name them many, heavy. In the structural fiscal deficit, it directly translates into a social deficit, which you, if you say it concerns you..., so here you have it. The model of financing; the lack of financing of the Law of Dependency; the lack of respect for the model of the Catalan school; the structural deficit of the financing of the public health system, and, above all, the Government of the State has increased the expenditure that runs to Catalonia. That's what I should have said, too. University scholarships; generally there is no public transport funding; the small part of the State's funding for the common agricultural policy and the rural development programme; the oblivion of the road haulage and regional network; the non-payment of the third additional provision of the State intended to supplement the infrastructure deficit; the repeated incompliments of the presupposition of the investments provided for in the general assumptions of the State; the State's ongoing work on the road haulage, the Mediterranean Corridor and the road haulage; the accumulated debt of State financing of the effects of the Mosso d'Esquadra, or the obstacles and continuing impediments to the external action of the Generality. And so we could go on with a long, long stretch. And, before that, the Government of the Generality continues, we continue to carry forward this country and giving response to citizens and citizens. Because this country works. And good proof of that is that we're ahead of the economy. I'll give you some examples. Catalonia has made a historical record of investment in R & D; high-tech Catalan exports have increased by 25.7_per_cent annually, in the third quarter of 2019; there is an increase in social security affiliations; we have announcements of new investments by large Catalan and foreign companies; the public housing stock administered by the Generality has reached a record high. We have recovered the PUOSC, a vital tool for the development of public policies in the local world; the Generality has faced the struggle against the energy poor in an integral way and has been the first Administration to address the problem and to seek tools and regulations to do so. I remind you that Catalonia is the only territory in the State that devotes funds to special work centres. And I can also give you an example of some of our pillars of social and environmental policies: public transport; and that is why we have approved a new tariff system that revolutionizes our model benefiting the frequency of use. The deployment of optical fiber, which is a revolution for opportunities, both social and economic, to our country. And one last time, because reality is coughing up and much so that Spanish governments agree to offer priority infrastructure such as Prat Airport, it turns out that during the year 2018 it was the sixth busiest airport in Europe. And, sadly, do you know what the worst sacrifice we have to bear is? So the attack on our freedom. The loss of freedom, the regression of our individual and collective rights, of our civil and political rights; this is the great hardship, because without freedom, because with the loss of rights, there is a loss of democracy, and the citizens of our country do not deserve it. If we want to move forward, if we want to get a real democratic country, if we want to get our rights back, if we want to work for the welfare of our people, if we want to cohesion the territory, if we want a country of opportunity for everyone, we recognize the political conflict between Catalonia and Spain. There is no problem of coexistence in Catalonia; there is a political conflict between Catalonia and Spain that can be resolved from the point of view of politics. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.31.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the management of public services]] [[302-00170/12]] Let's get to the next point of the order of the day. Let's start with the motions, and the first motion is the motion following the question to the Government about the management of public services, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent cry; to expose it, has the word the deputy Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.32.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. The management or provision of thirty thousand services, works and sub-administrations of goods remain in the hands of private entities or enterprises. During this same legislature, this Government, with Aragones and Torra in the lead, has awarded the management or provision of 26,000 services, works and sub-administrations of assets to private entities or enterprises for an import of 1,811_million euros and has extended a hundred contracts for an import of 229_million euros in favour of private entities, without any type of obligation. Currently, the Generality's assumptions reflect that the model prevailing in the management and provision of public services is structured by means of the contractual regime for the purchase of services at the market. This, today, is the main and normalized way of managing and providing public ownership services. We, with this young man, intend to sow the work in order to progressively change this model of management and provision of services. We want to get that the main and normalized way is that it managed it, provided it and the ownership of the essential services for life and that guarantee the fundamental rights remain one hundred_per_cent public. The behind these reflect that this is the majority popular will. 58_percent of Catalans bet for a public cent_per_cent management, you serve as public title, with a public cent_per_cent management and not a management in private hands. Only 23_per_cent think private management works better. With this young man, therefore, we propose the creation of a study commission that examines the situation of public services, the economic consequences of privatizations and that works on an internalization platform. We also propose that this study committee study the possibility of setting up an office to provide advice to the meetings in the internalisation processes, which we know are complicated processes and that it is very technical to be able to develop them. We also want to study the creation of an independent monitoring observer for the completion of contracts by concession firms, which ensures the correct development of the exercise of the powers of direction, inspection and sanction that they have the obligation to exercise the contracting authorities, whether they are regional councils, deputies, assemblies or the same Government of the Generality. Finally, we also want to urge the Government to recover the public management of public ownership services, not to renew existing awards in favour of private companies and to withdraw the Law from service contracts to persons to work in a law that prevents any private entity from benefiting from the management of sanitation, education, social services or basic sub-administrations. The outsourcing of public services has led to the degradation of services as important as these, such as sanitation, such as education, such as public services or basic sub-administrations. This, at the door of a new economic crisis – if it can be said that we have come out of the past – takes special relevancy, because these services also take special relevancy. The outsourcing of services involves €47,000_million in the year of overruns at the state-level, according to the National Securities Market Commission. The investigations of the Office of Antifrau held as the object matter of investigation the public contract in a 50_per_cent. Thirteen thousand million euros annually escapes in corruption for public contract, and we can cite cases of all political colors: Mercuri, Innova, three_per_cent; we, these cases, we have denounced them all. And that's why we ask for all these measures, and we also ask you to remove the known as "Aragonese law". It is more than a hundred collections that accurately represent users and workers of public services who demand that this law be withdrawn. They are collectivities that go from FAPAC to unions such as AIAC, CGT, plataformas such as the First Committee of December, the Great Pensioner or the Solidarity Consumer Network. Reversing the current model is in our hands.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.33.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, he has the word in the first place and on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Albert. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.34.0	Well, thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. Members, Members, Workers and Workers of Parliament and today, in particular, I want to mention to a special worker of this Parliament who is retired tomorrow, the Mercè Requena, who has been working here with us since the recovery of the institutions of the Republic and who is retired tomorrow, and I understand that Mercè is a very esteemed person and I believe that we too must honour the work that we do every day for all of us and want to have this reminder for her at this beginning. [[Greetings.]] And, if I may, a second question. Yesterday we had a good news, and it is that in Felipe Segura, to which the prosecution demanded 145,000 euros and four years of imprisonment, he was acquitted. And, therefore, for a tweet, Philip, Griselda, with you and for you, happy for the absolution. [[Greetings.]] And now yes; we go into subject matter respecting the CUP's motion. On this issue we have always been very clear and, in fact, Members of the CUP know that we have always moved them to talk about it, to study the causes, the situation, to define the map well, to know perfectly what are the limits both legislative and structural at the economic level, structural at the level of workers and workers, structural at the level of experts, experience and, therefore, that we should deal with the question of direct management of public services. And in this committee of study we have the opportunity and, for this reason and for this reason, we will give support to it. We will give support because we want to talk about it, because we want to deepen it, because we want to deal with this topic, because we want to work it, and work it from this rigorous analysis, and that you also allow us to start a planning process, if you climb, but always make it all the variables on the table. It is very important to keep all the variables in the table and always – always – from an open mark, a mark without prejudice or generalization. Not everything is so bad or everything, logically, it's so good. And that's important, that we do. And what we do in this committee of study, in this Parliament, that we can talk about it among all the parliamentary groups and that all the realities of this country feel identified, and that we can deepen it and, if that is so good, that these conclusions are truly representative of all of us, which will ultimately be representative of the society we want to represent and to which we hope to be able to represent. This, moreover, was tied to another vote, the one in the second place. We have also reached an agreement in the second-point transaction, and at this point we want to show our willingness to be honest, we want to show our willingness to be able to work and work openly, calmly, but unabated, because we believe that everything, in effect, is possible, but also that the decisions that we make must be decisions that are kept and that are understood and that, moreover, are collected and that do not generate collateral damage on workers and workers also from the private sphere. And so, all of this we have to do, and that's why we show this predisposition to the chord in the second point. And finally, the rest of the points, and that's it..., in the third and fourth we won't support it because, among other questions, in the third, the possibility of indirect management is omitted by the contractual way, but logically in the fifth law of contracts of service to people, the Aragonese law, of which you know perfectly well – in so-called a defender, because I grow it from the first point to the later, because I believe that it is a law that is very necessary and urgent for this country, because it is a law that makes it accentuate and give tools to the public administration because it can control the execution of the differences contracts, because it can validate the quality that it establishes in the leaves of the people and the techniques used by them. This law is not only essential; this law is urgent and we need to keep it as soon as possible, because we give very powerful control to our administrations. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.35.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Deputy Josep Maria Forné.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.36.0	Good morning, President. MPs and MPs, that a move like the independentist is cross-cutting and plural ideologically is a value, is a rich value. The goal of achieving the state is a shared objective; now, that this state would manage it just as much as all is not necessary..., it is not a necessary condition to have the same objective. Therefore, companies of the CUP and companies of the CUP, we share the objective of keeping the state right, we will work together in this; it does not mean that we all agree. In the motion that you are presenting to us, you are presenting us with a motion of character I would say'state', in which all public services are managed directly by the State, by the Administration, and the margin of freedom is a margin that remains very small. And our model isn't this, it's a model in which freedom has its head, economic freedom has its head, as in principle. There is a fit as a principle for two arguments, which can be reduced, of course, each, and we are glad that we can do this study commission, because this study commission will somehow allow us to deepen and argue not only in the reinforcement of a single objective, but also all the positions that can be counterposed, such as we are now defending in this sense. Who are the two arguments in which we stand and for which we will vote against points 2, 3, 4? You know that at point 2 we'll give our group a free vote, between abstention and no, huh? Why? First, because it's not about freedom, freedom is not a problem. And it's not a problem... even in Marxist literature, the determination of needs is a very complicated – very complicated determination. I seem to have already set an example at some point: when you come to the Berlin Wall thirty years ago, the first thing the citizens of East Germany do... They don't have a problem with needy people, with coverage of needy people; they already have it... But they go directly to the supermarkets, and they go there to taste freedom, taste freedom of being able to sort. And that's important, here's a whole anthropology behind it that's important. But then there is another gulf of arguments, which is the very practice of management: ownership, the legal form that the contractor makes, is neither a guarantee of quality nor a guarantee of non-quality, on the contrary. In this sense, many times we find that legal forms such as foundations or private enterprises perfectly, can offer much higher or equal forms of quality than other forms of statehood. Therefore, we cannot deny other forms of service that do not follow direct. The public service, the better. That's what we agree with. And here we must deepen. More, better, the public service. Its performance can also, of course, be direct, and, when it comes to being direct, it can be followed, and as there is, it can also be better. But do not deny the possibility of other forms. In fact, the last thing I think is the object that ended... is the contract law. Among the three forms of service provision – direct service, concertation and contracting – the three are three forms that can perfectly guarantee quality, whenever the Administration..., and this is an object of the law, it is an objective that must hold the law and it is an objective that we must achieve here as a legislative chamber: it is that in the concertation and in the contract, but also in the direct management, there is quality in the service provision. Because the important thing, the important thing here is that the city has the most public services, better, but above all that these services are provided in perfect quality, very good, excellent. And that's the point. And we don't tank ourselves in all three forms: direct service, concertation – in all its levels: education, greeting, social services..., in all –, contractation, of course, and the law to allow is that this contract has a form that guarantees quality and guarantees this plurality of forms. Besides – and we are still realists – the three forms, much so that we now voted only for one for the whole chamber, would exist and continue to exist. Since we have the opportunity to manage the form of the contract, we do it and we do it well. And that is what we would vote against, in the sense of withdrawing a contract law, which we also expect to exist in the other sectors: education, social and health, in the form of concertation, because they are also forms that must exist and must guarantee this quality. Therefore, by positioning, we agree on the objective, but not on how to manage this objective. This will be our position. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.37.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Martí Pachamé.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.38.0	President, advisors, deputies, deputies... Mrs Sirvent, we are already advance that we will be consistent. Look, Mrs Sirvent, from a strictly intellectual point of view, I might come to agree with you on the need for the law of service contracts to individuals, although I assume that for entirely different reasons than yours. Our position on this bill is a sceptical position, because we believe that it is not because of the real need that would justify it. It is a redundant law, which contributes virtually nothing to the Public Sector Contracts Act. And honestly, it's a shame, it's a missed opportunity. We have recently heard of the Anti-Fraud Office's report, and the conclusions cannot be more disappointing. That report detects up to twenty-one weaknesses in the current recruitment system, weaknesses that should have been precisely the focus, the object of the normative development we are dealing with. If we choose to re-legislate a matter on which there is already applicable national and Community legislation, we should hope that there will be an improvement in some aspect, which will affect something which, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, will be an improvement in higher-level legislation. In this case it does not seem that this was the objective, but that the subject under discussion, the emphasis of the debate, has focused on the social form of the companies that contract with the Administration. And that is not the objective of this law; the aim is to stop the economic vision, in which the price was the determining variable, and instead to be the quality of the service provided the center of the competition. There is no law that states that the best canonical form of service delivery is the public. Quality is not determined by the company's social form; quality is independent of whether the model is private, public-private or public. What is clear is that, at the international level, the prices of goods and services contracted in tenders where collusion has existed can increase by more than 20_per_cent; the price is not to be determinant, but still important, since it comes out of our taxes. Look, there are certain basic principles that we cannot ignore when it is legislated, and even more so when what is legislated is something that affects the provision of services. Safeguarding free competition is an inspiring principle of public procurement law and is indirectly present in the rest of the principles that inform it, including those of freedom of access to tenders, publicity and transparency of procedures and non-discrimination and equal treatment of candidates. The National Competition Commission urges that legislation be aimed at improving the application of these principles on a twofold basis: highlighting the aspects of the public procurement process in which unjustified restrictions on competition may be introduced and preventing possible collusive conduct by tenderers in these processes, in the light of the categorization of such conduct as infringements of competition law. It is in this sense that the processing of this law is leaving, in the absence of knowing what its definitive wording is, a certain lack of opportunity lost. Data from the Antifrau Agency report show that there is a wide area of improvement in the areas of preparation, tendering and execution, with up to twelve risk areas being identified. In this document, risk-generating factors focus exclusively on the area of responsibility of public employees. Legislating in these twenty-one aspects could have been an unequivocal sign that one wants to be extremely rigorous with the persecution of possible outbreaks of corruption. The rush to move this bill forward can end up being detrimental in the pursuit of its goal, which, let us not forget, is to improve the quality of public service. Instead, the political debate will have focused on whether it is better public or whether it is better private, as if this were the only thing that is important, when – and to the experience we refer – public-private collaboration, ensuring competition between bidders, is the most efficient way for public sector entities and society in general to benefit from better offers, in terms of quality and innovation, and also in price, of the goods and services contracted and, I insist, should be the ultimate end of this law. Our model of society seeks to bring together the best in the public and private spheres, establishing strict controls to ensure that the goal pursued, the quality, is met according to the highest standards and allowing free competition – a principle emanating from the European directive that protects this law – to be a guiding principle in the procurement process. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.39.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of Congresswoman Alicia Romero, of the Socialists Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.40.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor; good morning, deputies and deputies. Well, we find a young man a little contradictory, from the CUP. When we talk about public servants, I think the honest thing would be to talk about the quality of public servants. We believe, from the Socialist Group and Unites for Progress, that the real goal we must have of governments is to seek the best quality, the best quality, to give to the citizen. And so, this, this, this, this is the object that we should have spent in our pocket in front of governments. And so, when some motions are read, like this, I don't know if really what's being chased is this. Because we are convinced that neither the ownership nor the legal form of which a service provides guarantees quality nor condition. And, therefore, this is not what we need to pursue. And we, said this, believe that there is an important reflection on the provision of public services. We believe that it has not been done; after a few years of democracy, it would probably be a quiet, calm debate about which of the services are to be provided directly and which are to be done indirectly, through concertation or contract. We believe that this debate has not taken place and it would be worth it in a peaceful manner. But, said that and given this reflection, it seems to me that what we certainly cannot say with a maximum category is that from direct management all would be better. We think this should be assessed. That is why the CUP's proposal in point 1 seems to us to say: "We have a study committee. We have a study commission... There are a few points that do not convince us, but, well, a study commission is about to study, and therefore, we analyze things, think about it, without openness and without harm, that it is one of the things that I would really like to see in the soul of this study commission. Now, it's contradictory, sir, because after you in points 2, 3 and 4 let the study be and already urge the government to regain direct management of all services in education, health and social services. Well, what are we staying at? We study, we do a study commission to examine well what could be internalized and what could not? Or do we ask the government of the generality directly? To me, frankly, before the government wants to recover direct management services, not to extend any more contracts, I would like to have some conclusions on this commission; I think it would be the one that would be close, it seems to me that it is the most honest. That's why I say it seems like a totally contradictory motion on the part of the UPC. Obviously, it also means that there are things that we don't like in any way, right? You, in blocks 3 and 4, of course, in the fund are loading the third sector and entities; obviously against companies, but that's not new either, is it? Coming from the CUP. And we always keep saying the same thing: why do we demonize businesses? There are companies that do the right things, that manage the servants well and that treat the workers better and have good working conditions. If this is the problem, let's condition in the contracts or in the concertation these aspects, but demonize the companies or demonize the third sector, the entities, which is what you do in points 3 and 4, without giving the option that no management, no third sector, no companies, seems a mistake to me. But, I repeat, I would like to make the debate that you are setting up at point 1. That's why, honestly, we're moving on and on and on, and I just didn't hear it. And then I'll tell him something else. Now they won't like this, but listen to me, we have a mayor of the CUP for almost five years, you've outsourced the Bressol school and, as I know, you haven't internalized it yet. [[See for yourself and a few applause.]] Ah! No, we don't have a mayor of the CUP in Argentona, more than four years ago, and it turns out he hasn't internalized the Bressol school. Argentona's bressol school is outsourced. Home, and so on, I lived there for a few years, and I visited the open doors of this school. That's it. It's to say that they don't make the double speech, because it turns out that where they govern and they can do it, they don't. And then, now, Republican Left, which also gives us the double speech that you make, and to Mr. Jordi Albert I would like to say: listen to me, the Aragonese law did not please us, we did make a critical yes and we presented more ideas than any group; I would like to say to the CUP: where is its address to the totality of a law that did not please them? Where are your papers to improve that law? Where's his participation in the ponència? It's that you're criticizing her on the street, but you didn't present a message here to the totality! Home, if they liked them so little... it turns out they don't come to the job either. I don't like the law, but we are trying to improve it with our papers, to eliminate outsourcing, to enhance a law of consultation in the health and social sector, to improve all the shortcomings and shortcomings that we believe have this law. What's not worth is yelling and not doing the job that's close to the congressman. And I'll tell the Republican Left: I don't understand how you can vote 'yes' to point 2 and 'no' to point 5. Or, I do not understand how you can vote in favour of recovering direct management to public services and against the Aragonese law. Listen to me, it can't be. If in the matter of being the Aragonese law was the Chacon law, what would you vote on at point 5? You should think about it a little bit. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.41.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of Deputy Marta Ribas, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.42.0	Good morning. Mirin, in Catalonia, the provision of public services is a complex system, of direct provision for suitable, convenient, concerts, contracts... I would say that a system of a few limits – between this direct and indirect, social and commercial service – generally diffused, with sectoral legislation that has facilitated indirect management and outsourcing in the provision of services. This is not the case at this time, this is not new, but in the later years the situation has worsened due to multiple factors that have increased marketing and that have shown that the management form is key to ensuring – or putting more at risk – the quality of the services, the working conditions of the workers, and, ultimately, the same concept of public service. The last few years have added to this system confus, austerity policies, unreverted details, cases of corruption, anti-social laws – states, especially – which have slashed and limited the capacity of public administrations – like LRSAL, such as Montoro law – and governments have also joined Europe, Spain, and Catalonia, assuming that they are also the most advantageous on this issue, with determined and favourable intentions for outsourcing and commercialization of services. At the same time, a window of opportunity has been opened for this path in the past few years. An opportunity because the fact that you are in crisis managed it from public services must have us review and rethink what fails – if we really believe that crises are opportunities too. And because the same European framework of directives on the management lives of public services has made a small change, which has opened up a window of opportunity that we should take advantage of to go to the bottom of this possibility. It's been a long time since Catalonia in Comú that we've been defending that the time has come to review the system, to break the inertia and to do the country debate, to rethink how we want it to be managed by our public services. These opportunities..., or the benefit of this opportunity have been made by others: other autonomous communities have made it, that have made this debate of foundations, that have made laws of concertation, that have taken advantage to change the system that they inherited from governments of Drets. Our civil society has also done so, making it a lot of different collections that are against the Aragonese law and making a lot of social debate about how we want to manage our public services. This has also been done by the Third Sector or the social economy sector, which are debating and putting forward specific proposals on how to regulate concertation or how to regulate the social economy sector. Meanwhile, the Catalan government did not take advantage of it. It responds slowly or inactively to these proposals that come from the same Catalan civil society, and the only legislative initiative that has been put forward has been the Aragonese law, the law of service contracts to people, which neither addresses the question of how we want to manage our public services nor takes full advantage of the window of opportunity of the moment. On the contrary, what they have done is to start the debate on the roof of the house: they have not touched the foundations– sectoral laws–, nor the walls– how to improve the management directly, how to do more directly or how to do good managed – but they have gone directly to the roof, to the Law of contracts of service to people. I, moreover, timidly. It's been a while since we've told them: what's not going on right now is the People's Contract Law. Doesn't mean I don't care: I don't need to. Now what is needed is to clarify how people and public services are managed in our country, to shield the direct benefit on the part of public administrations and to clearly and transparently regulate social concertation. And then, a regulation of the contracts because, also in those cases where it is not possible to do it directly, or through concertation, the priority follows the guarantee of the rights of the citizenry and not the economic benefit of the enterprise contracted. That's why we're going to approve the CUP's motion, because you're going to say this just like a long time ago from Catalonia in Comú We can also do this day, and it seems like an opportunity for us to be interested in the study committee so that we can put this in place. Certainly, Mrs Romero, the study committee to which we are going with all the openings of the world, because we are going with our ideology and with our project. Let us not leave ideology at home to go to a study committee, and our ideology is a priority of direct management and of taking advantage of what can also be very interesting – it has proved and we believe that it has much more recourse – to the co-production of public policies with the social economy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, it is the turn of the deputy Santi Rodríguez, of the Subgroup of the People's Party. From the escó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.44.0	Thank you, President. Well, the debate that the CUP group is proposing to us in this case is not a debate about the management model. In other words, they do not give us the dichotomy of whether we have to sort for direct management or indirect management: they directly claim that the management has to be direct, and there is no other management model. And it is in this sense that the assembly of the young man, both point 1, the committee of study..., is the committee of study to make the whole management of public services go directly, not to assess what is more efficient, whether it is managed directly or indirectly. If that were the purpose of the study committee, then we could all agree, because we don't believe in openness. That is to say, we are already willing to study case by case what is possible or more efficient to provide a public service, whether to do so with direct management or to do so with indirect management; to which we are not willing is to move towards a model in which everything is managed directly. Because this is a model that has lapsed, and Mr Forné quoted it: the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, and the countries applying this model have ended in Europe. There are some left in the world, but it is precisely the opposite of what you say. "It's about democratizing public services with direct management, isn't it? Of the countries where the public services are made by direct management, therefore they come to me two at the head: Cuba and Venice, which are not precisely examples of either democracy or distribution of wealth; in any case, of distribution of the poor. Therefore, we will vote absolutely against all points of this motion. Finally, I would like to express a satisfaction, which is what Mr Forné has produced for me, which, in fact, has added that independence is rich in transversality and diversity: congratulations, it is an important adventure. Take a look at it and you'll be able to see that it's not just independence, but it's the joint venture of Catalan society where it's diverse, transversalized, and that's a wealth for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.45.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. To position herself on the items has the word now the deputy Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.46.0	Yes, you want to paint us as rare bitxes, but the world is full of current experiences in defense of public services, for example, Jeremy Corbyn, in Britain, has made a great campaign in this sense. On the other hand, let us not deny that the Aragonese law has well-intentioned measures, but it is not a law that seeks to avoid multi-serve businesses or to avoid Florentines, let us not deceive ourselves. So much so that the lower price, in the end, the bigger companies will always win, because that's how the market economy works that you seem to be defending. Mrs. Romero, it's not contradictory. We ideologically defend the title, managed and provided one hundred_per_cent public public services, that's it. But, bearing in mind that this is not the current model, we want to carry with us reason – that we believe there are many – to defend a model change, and therefore, that is why we propose this study committee, in which we will have occasion to debate. For another band, Mr. Forné, you were talking about building a proper state, that each one of us has a different ideology, but I don't know how they're going to plant it face to face at all while you're serving as essential as strategic infrastructure or serving as important as education, sanitation or social services are in the hands of those companies that the U of October, just hear about self-determination, collaborated in a brutal war that starred the State and moved its society. And if you want examples, you have Cellnex, you have Agbar and you have many businesses – with Abertis, for example – that manage strategic infrastructures that are essential for any state. It's not just a question of social justice, it's also a question of sovereignty.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.47.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. Are there separate voting petitions? Don't you? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Caula...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.48.0	We would ask points 1 and 2, which for us could be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.49.0	All right. Yes, Mr. Pujol... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Separated, the 2nd? [[Pause.]] All right. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, Miss Romero...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.50.0	Vote separate from point 1 and point 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.51.0	Okay. We'll vote point 1 for one side, point 2 for another, point 5 for another, and finally the rest of the vote. Let's get to the vote. We're voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 91 votes to 4, with 34 abstentions. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been rejected by 42 votes to 82, with 5 abstentions. And now we're voting point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 100 against and 17 abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 117 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into full-time education]] [[302-00166/12]] Let's move on to the following motion, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into full-time education presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. To defend her, Mr Bernat Solé has the word. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.52.0	Well, good morning to everyone. Counselor, deputies, deputies, members of the public..., deputy. Last week we talked about an inquiry, we proposed an inquiry in which we could manifest the multi-dimensional nature of education at these times. An education that can be conceived from many different backgrounds. We cannot limit education today to a given space and to a certain time. And, in fact, the same counselor told us that education went much further beyond school and lectural time. In this sense, the motion that we are proposing today, is a proposal that goes in this line, precisely in the line of connecting space and time. Not everything that refers to the education of our infants goes into a single space. There are many agents who participate in the education of our children: from out-of-school activities, from all that educational offer that can be raised from meetings and from all those agents who can participate in it. For this reason, the reason we set up today at the first point includes the need for hard to finish these educational plans around; some educational plans around that go beyond what had been set up so far. And at this point the department that sets up are educational plans around that vagrant from zero to twenty years. Because we understand that during this stage, as a society, as a department, as a government policy, what we have to achieve is that everyone comes out of the education system with a certificate or with an educational title. For another band, in this young man we also proposed the co-responsibility of the administrations. If we understood now that education was an exclusive competence of the Department of Education, each time it is more essential than local and supra-municipal assemblies and administrations to intervene in the education of our children. For a series of objects. A first objective, and very clear: the fight against school segregation. We cannot conceive of a society that there are students, people who have more time for education than others; everyone has to get out of the same line of exit, I said it the other day and I repeat it today. Therefore, we must make every effort to ensure that all students have the same opportunities. The concept of "equity". Another objective: to enhance the personal abilities of each school, this diversity that we have as society. But it doesn't answer all the needs and potentials of our students. Therefore, all that can come into this education with this full - time look will be welcomed. For all this, call the co-responsibility of the administrations, of the joints; share spaces: we can have libraries open in the morning for the school and open for the bar in the late. Educational centres can become..., with social centres, with cultural centres. And putting it in the quarter point, I think, of this young man, in which we talk about the dynamism of the rural school, the school, in a small municipality, is much more than a school, it is like a point of finding, it is like a point of relationship, of social relationship, of meetings of all kinds. And, therefore, we have to work on this line. Then, on the second turn of intervention, I will comment on the items presented by the different groups and the transactions to which they have arrived. And, therefore, I appreciate the good predisposition that has been offered at this time. Therefore, claim this look in an educated ecosystem, this full-time look, this look so that the education went beyond the line of the school. The department is working in this sense; proof of this is the educational plans around zero-twenty that have been driven in these past years to cities with very different social realities and territorial realities, such as Tarrega, Ripoll, Slugges de Llobregat, the Hospital de Llobregat, etc. We were asked to increase resources. Totally fine. Proof of this is that the department has expected in the next year to incorporate our educational plans from around zero to twenty. And so, as a parliamentary group, we obviously believe that this young man is responsible for this need to hear full-time education, this education with 360 eyes, and, therefore, we are grateful that it has been possible to reach a great deal of agreement with a good part of the parliamentary groups of this chamber. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.53.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented has the word, in the first place, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Esther Niubó. [[Widow's remorse.]] I hope you're all right, say so, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.54.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs and MPs, well, Esquerra presents a full-time education motion that we understand is a very important concept to understand that education, as explained by the ponent, goes far beyond school or classroom time. Education has to be conceived from a global perspective, not so focused only on traditional curricula, but on how skills are acquired, how social capital was obtained; education is effectively full-time. Because he educates himself in the groceries, he educates himself in extracurriculars, around the cities. And the educational opportunities and the learnings that result from all these spaces, from all these educational times, even though they do not, determine and have a very important impact on the educational success, on the vital, professional and formative itineraries of people. And to the extent that this happens, unfortunately, it can also extend the gap of inequalities in the field of education between those children and young people who participate in various educational activities that enrich them with new skills, skills, social capital, relationships, and those most vulnerable families or with more adverse situations that cannot access educational activities beyond those produced at schools, institutes, when they are the most needy. The Bofill Foundation has already retreated, in an experience, that the American Expanded Schools initiative, for example, points out that a 12-year-old child, with opportunities, accumulates six thousand hours more of learning than a child who does not have it. And this is a cost that is unbearable for a society that is cohesive and equitable. And, therefore, there are great differences that end up determining and weighing on the personal, educational and labor paths of the future. And that's why we're surprised that in this case we see this reality, we don't address the problem that can be derived from this new global educational reality and that there is no proposal to reduce precisely the education gap in out-of-school or out-of-school education; they don't refer to the better educational quality of the mensers to the schools; to the recovery of the mensers to the institutes, suppressed from the compacted day; they're not about ensuring that all these services or outputs are inclusive, as they are now, or they're about to increase the aid, the scholarships to precisely promote the access of the student to educational activities outside the school hours in equal opportunities. We haven't found a king of all this, and so we've found a fairly inadequate and incomplete young man. You plan to increase the educational plans around, and we obviously share that, but to do so you need to take on more material and human resources. We already understand – and that is why we have also accepted the compromise that was being proposed, and we are grateful that it was accepted – that the different administrations should be asked to do so; that the assemblies should be necessary allies and should also be able to lead their surroundings, but also that the resources of the department, not only for scholarships, aid or subsidies, which also, to facilitate access to the leure for everyone, but also professional for orientation or impulse and information. And why this works, effectively, to work with co-responsibility and institutional loyalty with local administrations, from respect to respective competencies, and to create this collaborative, co-responsible logic, and therefore alliances to achieve a committed educational environment, which involves all members of the educational community, who are involved and responsible. It therefore needs to improve cooperation with local administrations to facilitate this sharing of space and resources. And we will vote for them in favour of this, but in cooperation with local administrations we understand that they still have a lot of pending dues. They also propose to boost the schools in rural surroundings as the community's cohesive cores – and we would add "territory vertebrator" – but that can also be done if resources are not accompanied, which are often lacking. And that's why we presented a message, which we also appreciate being accepted. And finally they talk about the planning of the formative offer, which must be made in a consensual way with the territory, taking into account the needs of this territory and also the socioeconomic background. And again, we're grateful that you've been able to make a deal. And, therefore, despite the shortcomings that we see in the text for what it does on the issue of equal opportunities and concrete measures to reduce the Bretxa, we will vote in favour of the young person, hoping that at least it will serve because the paradigm shift and this overall conception of education is a long way off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.55.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Maialen Fernández has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.56.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, deputies, good morning to you all. The motion before us today on full-time education would seem interesting if it were not for the fallacy in which it is involved. Its approach is so abstract that we hardly know exactly what it is about. Falacia, for reasons. First, because Resolution EDU/423/2019 of 21 February 2019, which establishes the Educational Innovation Programme of the Education Plans for the Zero to Twenty Environment, sets out the basis for being part of the programme starting from the 2018-2019 course. That is, in a resolution of 2019, something of a course already started in 2018 is approved; moreover, when in the government agreement of 19 June 2018, concerning educational and training policies, it was already established eight months before the consolidation and improvement of these educational plans of the environment. And second. Because just a year ago you, Mr Bargalló, here, claimed that the Generalitat would recover the budget envelope to re-invigorate these educational plans from the environment and extend them to the age of zero to twenty, including non-formal education or educational leisure. Do you teach me where this year's budgets are or last year's budgets? Where are you going to get that financial endowment that you were talking about to carry out? In the amendment they have negotiated with the PSC, they talk about human and material resources, which, of course, are necessary, but where is the crayon of the cake that is the economic resources? Do you see how it is then shown that we are talking about fallacies? These environmental plans were already established in 2005 as an educational cooperation between the Generalitat and the municipalities. However, in 2011, thanks to cuts promoted by the government of Artur Mas, they were paralyzed due to this lack of budget. In spite of this, at the end of..., at the close of 2018, 1,293 centers had these environmental education plans and covered more than 400,000 students. I mean, gentlemen of Esquerra, they ask themselves, they ask their own advisor, to force him to do what he announced a year ago that he was going to do. And as I mentioned in the appearance before the director general of the FP, what is needed is political will to do things and carry out projects; that is, less samba and more work. It would seem to us an interesting idea from the point of view of a comprehensive, comprehensive education and the personal and professional development of our young people. Most experts emphasize that it is important, beyond what is normally learned in school, to foster certain attitudes and abilities that could be acquired in extracurricular spaces..., to foster their life and future development. You, Mr Solé, said in your question at the last plenary session: "Let us educate, let us always educate. And we say to him: "Right, let us always, constantly educate. Manipulate? Never, ever. Because under this umbrella that encompasses education beyond educational centers and knowing the caress that separatist parties print at it, what we are not going to accept under any concept is that you extend your ideological, politicized and manipulative tentacles beyond the extra-school and family realm. Because you were talking about education 360. And one, when you look at your website, the first thing you see is that it's a social and political educational initiative. Education, Mr Solé, is not political, it must not be political. Give up the politicization at once in the classrooms, do not manipulate our children and young people, do not spy on them in the courtyards to see if they speak or say what you want them to say; do not point them out, and ultimately do not adopt our young people. Be useful and devote yourselves to education. No more rhetoric, no more logos, no signs, no markings. Instead of spying on minors, instead of trying to control the 24 hours of the day and 365 days of the year, they use and use the large amount of public money that they waste on their utopias in an education free of all ideology. I knew that they would not accept our amendment, which talks about the free choice of families to maintain strict political and ideological neutrality in all areas, including education. And not just because she's a fortune teller, not because we're working to get you to kill them, not because you're incapable of committing yourself to it. This motion shows us that they intend to extend their wings above what should be allowed. Our students are the generation of the future deserves the best of institutions, political representatives, economic and social actors. Let them freely decide for themselves what they want to be older. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.57.0	To fix his position, he has the word, in the first place and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Marc Parés. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.58.0	Well, thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillors, Councillors, Well, you present us with this motion in which, therefore, you speak of full-time education and, therefore, of a conception of the learning process with a global perspective that goes beyond what is strictly lectual time, a look that we fully share, understand that educators are not only teachers in the lectual time, they understand that the education process is not produced only in the classroom and during class hours. And that, therefore, is absolutely necessary for this look. A young person in whom they also recognize – and you did, Mr Solé, in your intervention – that does not everyone have the same opportunities to access educational opportunities, especially out of school time, for economic reasons, for sociocultural reasons. And we would add, too, for territorial reasons, something that you also reflect on one of the points of your young lady. They talk about the importance of the local environment as suitable spaces for these educational opportunities, look that we also share, with the need to municipalize education and, therefore, that the assemblies have a key role, meaning in the process of education and learning, and also coordination between the different agents of the educational community, which we also share. Now, in the proposals that you make to the movement, let's also say, therefore, that we have found a lack of concrete commitments that reverse in a substantial better fight especially against segregation, in the reduction of the dropout rate or in education in values, for example. It's true that the thought that... some of the reviews that the PSC has made of them, therefore, help to improve, to concretely say that for all that they call resources. Well, at the first point, you tell us, what they're asking us is that we need to increase the name of educational plans around. As the Member of Ciutadans has already said, these types of plans believe, in fact, in the year 2005, with a look, with an innovative contribution – that you now recover and that we celebrate that this is the case, right? – with this educational cooperation between the assemblies and the Generality. Then it was during the compulsory stage; now you have proposed or started to apply it to the zero-twentieth stage, which we, therefore, also celebrate. The objective, when the plans were created in 2005, was to face the challenge posed by the important arrival of immigration, to ensure the educational success of all the students and to pay special attention to vulnerable students, contributing to social cohesion. Clearly, as it was also said, in the year 2011, these plans cease to be funded. And, of course, it's not that the society has changed in the last decade or that in the last two years we haven't needed this community approach to education, but it's just that it's decided to stop it from providing resources. And, therefore, one of the great..., another of the consequences that we have suffered from the detail from the 11th to the present has been precisely this, that we do not have this look on the process of education and learning. Well, as I said, you now get that look back, too, which is embedded in the School Segregation Pact, which your action 29 already talks about that is going to take a long time. And what we understand is that this type of plan can direct them to high-complexity spaces and always prioritize public school, which is the most segregated one. She didn't feel that the concert had the same access when segregation was so low in this type of school. In the second place, you ask to work with local administrations, which, as we have said, we believe is extremely important. And we also believe that it would be good to move forward to the educational areas, that is, to move from the centre look to the area look, where different centers can work in coordination, share resources and involve all the educational agents. We want to put emphasis on point 4 of his report, in which he talks about schools in rural areas. Just like that, you've given some examples where you've started pushing these types of plans. It is true that there are some capitals in the region, but they are relatively large municipalities. We believe that you can also bet on educational plans to go into small municipalities, with some of the needs that you also identified in this young man. And finally, simply to say that for our group full-time education is essential as a mechanism of equality, as a predispositional measure, because it cannot be that the education system of our country is a mechanism of reproduction of inequalities, in which, as we now know from the data we have, the students of the most vulnerable families do not get the same results as those of the most beneficial families. We believe that this full-time look at education must help the education system in Catalonia to achieve exactly the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.59.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.60.0	Yes, from the escho, President. Well, we will vote in favour of this motion, but despite this, we would like to highlight some questions or questions in relation to this issue. In the first place, because this is feasible and possible, we need to recognize the gatherings as the ones we need to lead these types of initiatives, and therefore we need to recognize and enhance this ability and equip them with resources and material leadership skills for the long run. Secondly, it is essential to recognize and promote community dynamics, participatory dynamics in the barrels and territories, and therefore explicit recognition and promotion of community and participatory social self-organization in these territories, otherwise, this will not work. But, at times, this requires strong public leadership so that this is a well-structured, well-structured and well-organized process and dynamic. And, for another band, what we also want to point out is that if we share the objectives of this motion well, we need to point out that this is absolutely contradictory, for example, with the lack of endowment and resources or even with the privatization process to which the government is subjecting professional training, to set an example. And above all, it seems to us that it is absolutely contradictory with the process of extinction, marginalization and deprivation to which adult education is being subjected. Listen, do you really want a good part of the objectives of this motion to contribute to it in an effective and effective way? In promoting adult education, I recognize that adult education has a fundamental role in community development, in social education, in the insertion of those people who are at risk of being left out of an equal opportunity. This adult education is not just literacy, but it's all a process of awareness-raising, empowerment of people and empowerment of their ability to be active agents, responsible and involved in their community. In promoting adult education, separate it from the situation of marginalization to which they are posing and see how this facilitates, of course, the compliment of some of the objectives of this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.61.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr. Daniel Serrano has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.62.0	Thank you, President. From the seat. The truth is that it is difficult to disagree with the content of this motion, however, we think that the problem of this motion is twofold: on the one hand, the Government's conception of the education system, and on the other, more related to the content of the motion, is the little concreteness and the little ambition it has, on the other hand, more about one of the parliamentary groups supporting the Government. In addition, we think it is late, much more considering that the municipalities have long assumed and implemented programmes of full education, also taking into account their limited skills and resources. We therefore believe that it is late in that direction. We believe, indeed, that it is necessary for the Generalitat de Catalunya, through its own initiatives and joint initiatives with local authorities, to promote the increase of these measures while guaranteeing the economic resources that will enable them to be implemented successfully. Without budgets, these measures can hardly be implemented. Nor can we make it clear that the situation in the rural environment is very different from that in the urban environment; therefore, greater efforts must be made in the rural environment, not forgetting also that in order to guarantee the overall perspective of learning in this rural environment, it is necessary to guarantee the free flow of school transport from the added municipalities, something which the Government has stopped doing. At first he said that one of the problems of this motion is the conception of the education councillor of the education system, a system in which the freedom of choice of parents is to be excluded. Concerted schooling is a system where the global perspective is not guaranteed. Therefore, wanting to end, as the draft decree of schooling seeks, the freedom of choice of the educational system is the same as wanting to end the very foundations of the educational system. Therefore, the totality of education is possible only if the freedom of families is guaranteed throughout the educational offer; everything else is mere literature, which is what we believe contains the majority of this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.63.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, for this to come back, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Congressman Lluís Font. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.64.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, I would like to thank the Group of the Republic for the opportunity to debate such an important issue, which is so important for the world of education. Reminds me of the debate « Now it is tomorrow, promoted for the School Council of Catalonia, which tried to fix a conceptual reflection _mark for the theme of education. I believe that when we are able to establish basic concepts, the policies that are deployed retrospectively are coherent. And following this debate that has been stimulating and interesting to me, I think there is a mainstream, a consensus of many political groups to propose a series of questions that I will now try to explain. As much as the Culture Counsellor did not follow, but had thought of a comment that surely would please her: the paedia, the Classic Grace and Athens, had much to see with the police, education is politics by nature. In any case, the one who doesn't have to be a partyist. I'm saying for some mention that it's been done. Education is deeply political, because it deals with issues of interest to the police, the citizenry. And we need to create a moral awareness of people, not just to train them professionally, not just to develop their talent, but these citizens' habits. Secondly, it seems to me that, for example, the distinction between lectual time and educational time is very appropriate. For years, we have focused all the quality strategy on increasing class hours, on the exclusive centrality of the teaching load, and now we agree that it is the combination of educational opportunities, educational time, which is transcendental and guarantees equal opportunities. The same could be said with the concept of school success or educational success. It is not strictly to approve examinations and to pass courses the transcendent, but to be able to develop the proper talent, the intellectual, emotional, social, sensitive muscles of the citizenry, of each of our students so as to face in life the reptes that vagnate them feeling faithful to themselves and, therefore, due to the kingdoms of their own existence. In this conceptual mark, this school visit, the educational center as an ecosystem formed by different nodes that interrelate, seems to me to be cabdal. What unites me all is this willingness to make possible the educational success of all and each of the students, regardless of the circumstances that compete in each case: the difficulties in learning, personal issues, social issues... We need to create an environment of teaching and learning that makes this possible, the educational success of all and everyone. While this is not guaranteed, we cannot talk about a global success in the full meaning of the term. To make this educational success possible, each educational centre must develop and develop a project, a project that, in keeping with the objective of success, takes into account the circumstances and puts the actions into value. And this is what brings together the ecosystem, the set of nodes for teachers and teachers, for professionals from other backgrounds: psychologists, occupational therapists and other professionals who compete in school, the seas and the peers, educational institutions, local administrations and, as at the central level, the same students. And this interrelated dynamic vision is what they want to develop this conception of full-time school, 360-degree education. This is very important, because among all of them they can face the difficulties of learning and correspond with others. And this without oblivion that the authority in educational matters corresponds to the Department of Education. Therefore, it is not a renunciation, to exercise this authority so close to the department, but to seek synergies to integrate more actors into this common and shared task for all. It seems to me that this more integrative, dynamic conception, where the educational plans around are a tool, helps us move forward. I would say that educational plans are important from this point of view, but in the background they are the pretext for talking about an education that includes the ecosystem. Educational plans are and must serve as an instrument, as are many other initiatives, but what is important is to set these great goals in the educational community: educational success for all, respect the uniqueness of each and ability to aggregate efforts and synergies to make this great country goal possible. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.65.0	Thank you, Congressman. To finish and to pronounce on the papers, has a turn, again, the deputy Mr Solé. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.66.0	Well, it's always a pleasure to listen to Dr. Lluís Font, and the more he talks about "It's tomorrow and don't tell us he was one of the drivers of this great project; so, thank you. [[Greetings.]] Vagi per intante – Grup Socialists especially – therefore, the good predisposition to be able to reach agreements, concretely in transaction in the points..., in the item number 1 and in the item number 5. And, on the other hand, we'll accept Emena 2 and Emena 4, but point 3 or Emena 3 we won't vote in favour of it, because we understand that we're already cooperating with the local administration. He spoke to us..., in fact the three groups – PSC, common and CUP -, who are the ones who really support this young man, of whom are those concrete measures to overcome this Brittany that is beyond the lectile time. Well, the government's bet is clear, the signing of the Pact against School Segregation is a felicitous demonstration that the will of this department, of this government, is precisely to fight against this Britain, and therefore, in this sense, we ask them for their co-responsibility in power over all these initiatives provided for in the premise, which would certainly please our students if they were approved. For what you do to the intervention of Ciutadans, Mrs. Maialen, you always take the mantra of the indoctrination; today we don't talk about indoctrination, we talk about many other things. I will give you an example: you have the opportunity to rule in Andalusia, and you say: "Students deserve the best of our rulers. Do you know what's going on? That, when you govern, you make a summer plan of educational reinforcement precisely to overcome the school bretxa, and in this summer plan of educational reinforcement offer one hundred_ thousand places for these students. Do you know how many of these hundred thousand seats have been covered? A 4-per-cent. So, less samba and more work. [[Greetings and remorse. Marina Bravo Sobrino asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.67.0	Say'm, Mrs. Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.68.0	Separate vote from points 3 and 4, which can be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.69.0	All right. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Long break.]] Well, we'll go to the vote. We shall vote, first of all, on points 3 and 4, together, and then on the rest of the motion. The vote on points 3 and 4 begins. Points 3 and 4 of this motion were approved unanimously, that is, 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was adopted by 93 votes to none, with 38 abstentions. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the occasion of the thirtieth anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child]] [[401-00021/12]] Before we proceed to the next item on the agenda, we will proceed to read the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on the occasion of the thirtieth anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Before asking the secretary Campdepadrós to read it, I would like to greet the UNICEF coordinator Committee Catalunya and the entire UNICEF team Catalonia. Welcome to the Parliament of Catalonia. I pass the word to the secretary Campdepadrós because you read the statement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.70.0	« Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In 1989, rulers from all over the world made a historic compromise with the world's failure to approve the Convention on the Rights of the Child of the United Nations. This November, the 30th anniversary of the approval of the said convention was celebrated. And the Parliament of Catalonia wants to add to the ephemeral with this institutional declaration. Then millions of children have improved their lives thanks to the exercise and progressive completion of their rights, as they proclaim their convictions and optional protocols. Now, at this point in time, we must make firm decisions to ensure that no child is left behind and that everyone can develop the maximum potential. It may fill in the great progress made in promoting children's rights, but it may also accelerate the objectives of the 2030 Agenda for sustainable development, because the conviction and the objectives of sustainable development have been folded. And children's rights cannot materialize unless an effective application of the said objectives is achieved. Today and tomorrow, children and children are the most valuable to achieve a peaceful, just, inclusive and prosperous world. For this reason, it is urgent to accelerate progress and intensify action. The Parliament of Catalonia declares its direct commitment to the children of Catalonia and throughout the world, and will age because the children and children of Catalonia are guaranteed all and every right that establishes the Convention on the Rights of the Child of the United Nations: for each child, all rights. Palau del Parlament, 12 September 2019. [[Strong applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.71.0	Thank you very much. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into male rapes]] [[302-00167/12]] We're still on the order of the day. And the twenty-one point is the motion following the government's inquiry into male rapes. Presented for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, to expose it has the word Ms Susana Segovia. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.72.0	Well, thank you very much. MPs, MPs, we're one year older, after November 25, with a mob of male rapes, even though it's a theme that has been repeatedly released in other broad specs that we've also had. I think we are quite in agreement, the majority of Members and Members of this House, that feminicide is the highest expression of male violence, that kills us to be women, kills us because, under the brute tip of the murders, we find all a patriarchal system that fills it all: insults, vexations, coups, hints, unequal opportunities, roles, shame, humiliation and disbelief. They kill us because we are still in a heteropatriarchal system, with heteropatriarchal values. A 51,3_percent of women have suffered male violence in Catalonia, and this exposes sexual gestures and exhibitionisms; a 25,3 of women, one_of_each_four, some particularly hard aggression. And in Catalonia – we have talked about it many times – we have a law that was pioneering in its time, which was 5/2008, a law of consensus that advanced in the focus of the struggle and the eradication of masculinist rapes; a law that should have been prioritised in its deployment, with resources, with political will and with the ability to execute, but that did not follow. Eleven years have passed since that law, and it is a law that continues without being a priority of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. And it's not what we say: they say the reports and evaluations that the same Catalan Institute of Donations presented when it was made years of the law and that there were already serious shortcomings in implementation, shortcomings in the circuits, shortcomings in territorial equity in the attention to victims of masculinist rapes. The Government of the Generality, the Government of Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Left, every time it has the opportunity, in this faristol, to talk about male violence, says that it is a priority, that it is an emergence, that it has all the will. But at the time of truth, beyond this fart, we do not see it in fact. And in fact I can only see, one more time, the papers that normally present the governing groups, that are always going to detail those presupposed commitments and concrete actions that present the opposition groups. If you ask for sixteen SIES, you don't, you don't; if you ask for twelve housing resources, you don't, you don't. I don't really understand the logic of these issues, because if what is voluntary and there are resources, along with those who come from the resources of the state pact, we would have to put all the will and we wouldn't have to see items that detail the political will and resources. Calien specialized resources, calen housing alternatives for victims of male violence. They get the money from the state pact; which may not be in time, it may be, but this year they got it back in July, September announced a call for grants to implement new SIES and housing resources, and they handled it at the end of November, and they only gave the entities a week to present themselves and to develop it. But it's not just a resource issue. That, too, can bet clearly on the territorial equality of women victims of violence and their reparations, theirs and that of their children. But also – as well – as coordination, as complementarity, as political will, as leadership capacity of the Catalan Institute of Women and of the Council of the Presidency, as well as putting the fight against masculinist rape to the front. Things that fall, for example: that a specialized intervention of quality, to guarantee reparation to victims, to have enough substitutes of the street, to guarantee territorial equity, to return to the Catalan Institute of the Dones the presupposition that it had before the retails, and that is 12_million, no. 8. And there's no proposal that you go that way. And it's not just that. There are other things that have also been raised in this faristol several times, that have been approved for this Parliament and that the Government does not implement. For example, along with dealing with and engaging in institutional rapes, some rapes that were left out of the 2008 law, which repeatedly and repeatedly have been positioned, from different feminist organizations and entities, that institutional rape is a double victimization of the woman. This was approved a year ago, precisely, in this same Faristol, on the proposal of our group. So far, the government has not taken any initiative. As a group, we have made a proposal working with experts who have already worked on the 2008 law, because this Parliament opened the debate and, through a bill of law, can extend the 5/2008 to include institutional and digital rapes. We believe that this Parliament must be at the height of the road movement. We believe that this Parliament must demand that the government put up the fight against the masculinist rapes in the front. And therefore, we ask for the vote in favour of these points. We accept the papers submitted. I think we have improved the proposal among all of us, but, as we have already said, we will not accept those who are going to detail resources in the struggle against masculinist rapes. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.73.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, has the word, in first place and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà, the deputy Mrs Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.74.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs. Well, I'll start with point number 8 of my order, because Congresswoman Segovia has been very strong, and I understand it perfectly and I assume that if I were the opposition I would be making the same speech, and it's a complaint about something I can hear perfectly, that the government's papers are always going to detail commitments. It's obvious, because the job that the opposition has to do is to go to the maximum and the job that the government has to do and the job that the parliamentary groups that we support the government have to do is to evaluate the possibilities, to hear who the resources are, the possibilities between the brands that raise the opposition. And, therefore, it is obvious that, for our part..., and I think that the abstentions that we do not justify, let's say, the priorities of the government or not, but it is certain that we would already be able to vote for it all in favour and do everything as the opposition demands, but I do not think that this is our paper and that, in fact, when the opposition governs other institutions it has to do exactly the same paper. But, unfortunately, I thank this next young man, because, somehow, it's the work of this Parliament and the deputies that we are here to do, so, this pressure, somehow, isn't it? , from the legislature to the executive. And I especially appreciate this motion because it introduces many questions that, from feminist entities, are part of a reality and that perhaps institutions are costing us a little more. And we are talking about the first point, above all, that sexual rape is introduced, that trafficking in women and children for the purpose of sexual exploitation, that we introduce female genital mutilation, forced marriages and violence resulting from armed conflicts, without leaving us "sexual and reproductive rights or institutional and digital violence. That it is certain that all these melons, let's say, that we can say so, are on the table, that we are aware that they are pending fears that we want to address, but I am grateful precisely, for this young man, that I have opened these debates, because, more than concrete proposals, our institutional role in supporting the Government in moving not to detail the commitments, but to adapt them to the reality of the resources and of the Government of Catalonia, but it remains an obligation for us to address these issues. Because this law, which has been a pioneer for years, in the last few gods, but I will go further there, in the last three or four, sexual violence is no longer exactly the same, is it not? At the social, media and awareness level, because we have improved a lot as society, we have advanced a lot, they have changed a lot of things from the common ideal of women and their empowerment. And, therefore, sexual violence, trafficking in women, which goes beyond the debates on prostitution, regulation or abolition, in the trafficking of women there is a consensus in the Catalan Parliament and in Catalan society. Therefore, all those questions that are on the table, from the Parliament of Catalonia, we have to address. And about female genital mutilation, forced marriages or violence from armed conflicts, it's that maybe this law of the past two years has remained a little white and we have remained a little western. And, therefore, I thank you very much, from this young man, for putting on the table all these questions that are and that need to be addressed from this institution. Because the same way we were pioneers at that time, we need to be again and we need to be able to update this law. As I said about concrete proposals, the absence of resources or the possibility of doing so in the marks and margins proposed not because we do not agree, but because we have the resources we have. There have been some long-term expansions that I understand for the opposition to go down, but for the groups that support the government, it is still an adaptation to reality. And, finally, a question that we believe to be important and that goes beyond concrete proposals and that looks more to the future, and it is about the assumptions of the Generality, is to make this impact of genera, because more than being able to make a visibility of who are the resources, to see what is the impact and what we are causing with our public policies, which goes beyond what resources we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.75.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]] On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mrs Elena Fort has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.76.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies... Kelly, Irene, Mònica, Susanna, Eva, Nicole are the names of some of the new women murdered in our country during this year 2019, victims of male violence. Yesterday, precisely, we started the Ple, opening this Ple, condemning the assassination a few days ago of these victims. Masclist violence is a chess and a chess that seems to be out of place, a chess against which all of us here have an inescapable duty to act and to do so with greater responsibility, if any, than any other city. I would like to thank the group proposing his presentation and the opportunity for us to speak again in this Parliament, because we have to do it as often as possible. And, in any case, please appreciate the possibility of being able to explain the absolved threads and the fete pocket – because, yes, there is a lot of pocket and fete – from the government, despite the presuppositional shortcomings and the always necessary better and badly, obviously, that are never enough the efforts and measures that are taken before the manipulation or the abuse of a single life. That is why I want to remember the Government's firm commitment against male violence, again, and to put in full value the task of the department and especially of the Catalan Institute of the Dones, which make every effort every day to lie down in a society free of male violence and to do so with the resources that they can dispose of. I would like to point out that the second comprehensive intervention programme against male-based rape was approved in the past year and that thanks to this, the year 2019 has been able to allocate €32.2 million to measures to eradicate male-based rape. A program that will set aside a hundred performances by the year 2022. For example, in the past few months, a new model of approach to sexual rape, a new model of intervention and work in the network of information and service services has been created for women or the Help Guide for women in a situation of male rape. And we do not stand here, we also highlight other actions, among many, the forecast of fifty-nine places of temporary gathering, the award of substitute housing to women with violence, the call of four SIES nos, the increase of the economic endowment to SIACs or the inn in the margin of the accompanying service to judges. In this sense, and in relation to the concrete proposals of the motion, let's say that the government's predisposition is always to attend to the cent_per_cent, but unfortunately, this is not possible. And, in this sense, the presentations or girl performances for our group, in the first place, have been in three blocks. In the first place, we have accepted in full three of the points, three of the points: point 1, point 4a and point 4.e, which are commitments to complement the intervention programme, complement the deployment of the law. Second of all, there are five technical, formal or morning falls, they understand that they can all be better at managing, informing or coordinating services. Specifically, at point 2, a question of terms; at point 3, add a request to modify the law; the rebuttal of points 5 and 6; at point 7, a terminological addition, and at point 8, a change in the performance. And, in the third place, there are three items with the objective of concreteizing what today is possible, and reaching a real and feasible point of finding for what it does to economic commitments. In concrete terms, at point 4.b, we have simply presented a point in the sense of not compromising a concrete and quantified presuppositional endowment now, since, today, it is not possible to concretely determine with certainty what will be the increase and funding of the Catalan Institute of Donations or the percentage that it will allocate to the approach of male violins; and at points 4.c and 4.b, to concreteize the number of acts to be done. The proponents of the motion have accepted some of the papers, which we appreciate, although they are not related to economic issues, for which we would vote affirmatively for most of the papers, also at some of the points where the papers were not accepted, but we will abstain at all those points that involve an economic compromise, not because we do not want to accept them and we are against them, but because we cannot make these commitments. In any case, and in the end, what makes this motion manifest is the need to approve the assumptions that increase resources and guarantee that it can make possible even more filters in the action against male violence and give more answers and more forcefully to the women who suffer from this violence, who are ultimately to whom they owe us. Place them, do it, add folded efforts. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.77.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Elisabeth Valencia has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.78.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to you all, Counsellor, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. The macho violence is the highest expression of inequality, and sadly in Spain the figures are terrifying: we have been carrying fifty_and_five murders of women for macho violence in what goes on this year. Nine of these murders, sadly, have occurred in Catalonia, the last victim, specifically in El Prat de Llobregat. From our group we believe that it is vital to convey to women a clear message: they have the support of institutions and civil society in the face of any situation of violence, they therefore have all the institutional and social force to denounce. It is important that this message reaches women, because there are many women who do not dare report it out of fear. We believe that, in order to achieve the institutional strength needed to combat macho violence, we must put women's rights and consensus ahead of us. Civil society calls for consensus, such as that reached in the state pact. This struggle is everyone's and must be a matter of state. Behind our political actions there are people, there are children, there are social realities, there are human lives. We must therefore not enter into partisan issues on this issue. And I make it very clear. But what is the situation in Catalonia? We've had nine murders in what we've been doing all year. Catalonia is among the five communities with the most macho violence murders in Spain in 2019; specifically, we are in second place. We need a government to put in place effective measures to end this violence, and we urgently need it. So, what was the government's management? Unfortunately, we have the Government of advertising and propaganda, but in the fight against macho violence it has done little or nothing at all during these years. It has cut the 30_per_cent, since 2010, into very important budget items to combat male violence. We're short of resources. Programmes are announced and consensus is announced for institutional declarations, which are welcome, but women need effective measures and measures. We need unity of action, institutional coordination and, very important, resources to be put in place, and that needs to be budgeted. It is a question of political will, political will that has shone for its absence since the management of different governments in Catalonia for years. It is true that we have laws, but they serve little if they are not enforced. Look, Catalonia, as my partner said at last plenary session, is the community where the lowest percentage of protection orders is granted, 48_per_cent, specifically. This is because in Catalonia a tool has not been implemented that is fundamental to protection orders: forensic assessment units. These units are multidisciplinary teams of psychologists, social workers, forensic doctors, who provide a specialized response and help judges to take more appropriate protective measures for victims. Well, Catalonia is the only community where these units have not been launched. The Government has therefore been failing to comply with the State Gender Violence Act for 14 years. Precisely last week, we asked the counselor about the subject and looked away, as usual, and she did not answer. Well, what he answered was that, as a measure, the government had done what it had done was to agree on an institutional declaration. It's a shame of response that you gave to my partner, counselor. [[Greetings.]] Well, look, I am announcing that we will continue to insist and we have put forward a proposal to force the Government, by law, to implement these forensic assessment units, which are so necessary for the protection of these women. With regard to the motion, we have tabled two amendments with the intention of improving the text of the motion to ask, at once, that no more fundamental programmes be cut back on the fight against macho violence, such as that which contains, for example, an issue which we consider essential, such as the victim's telephone, which I take advantage of to say that it leaves no trace. We have also tabled another amendment to specify what measures will be implemented with the increase in the budget requested in the motion for the Institut Català de les Dones. We are grateful that these two amendments are accepted. I would like to announce that we will vote in favour of the motion, because we agree with the measures that are being proposed, and we see the importance of the Government fulfilling them in order to move forward in the struggle. We call, precisely, on this responsibility that we do have to ask the Group of Catalonia in Comú to reconsider the contempt that it is doing to our Law on the right to accompany therapeutic dogs to the victims, because the effectiveness of this measure for the protection of these women is widely demonstrated. Please, let's not get into party issues. We believe that there is no point in making this process difficult, and we hope that they will genuinely react. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.79.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Beatriz Silva has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.80.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. I would like to thank the Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomera for presenting this motion today, which I believe is a summary of one of the main demands that have been brought to this Parliament during this parliamentary term in relation to the fight against gender-based violence. The proposals it contains are not new, they have been emerging in motions and resolutions that, in some cases, have not been adopted and, in others, they have come forward with votes against the formations that support the Government and, although all of them are urgent, they remain unrealized because they involve allocating resources and, as in other issues that have to do with the social emergency in Catalonia, gender-based violence is not a priority of this Government, which, beyond symbolic declarations and acts on specified days, is not translating good words into resources to combat it. Currently, Catalonia has a network that reaches only one_of_each_ten women who are estimated to be victims of sexist violence, is what the Català de les Dones Institute reports say. This means that nine_of_each_ten women stay out of any kind of attention. In addition, seven_of_each_ten victims do not receive this attention from the specialized intervention services, the SIEs, who are responsible for the recovery of victims of gender violence; they are attended by the information services and cared for the gifts, the SIADs, who do not have the resources or training to take on this task, because their objective is to inform and advise on various issues related to equality. Take up this task because there are only eight specialized care services throughout Catalonia, where fifty_and nine professionals work, fifty_and nine professionals for all of Catalonia. The least we need is to duplicate these services, as this motion raises. The Government has tabled an amendment that proposes to create only four, but we already know that at least two will be funded from the resources transferred in 2018 from the central government to deploy the State Pact against Gender Violence, a pact that aims to add resources and not replace what the administrations that have the competences transferred do. If the other two new SIEs will be financed with the money from the 2019 State Pact, the result is that, in fact, the Catalan Government still does not make a proposal that involves allocating more own resources to improve the network, a network that is saturated because not only are recovery services lacking, but because the information services are doing a task that, in many cases, prevents them from fulfilling their own objective, which is detection and prevention. Some of the reports that have been submitted to the Equality Commission in this legislature point to the large number of situations of stress, and even of job losses, which causes SIAD professionals to have to take on a type of care for which they are not prepared, for example, the care of the children of women who are victims of gender-based violence, who need specific training. Unemployment and stress are also frequent in the eight specialized care services, which do not provide enough for the recovery of the thousands of women in need of help, with their fifty and nine professionals. Last year, I was at the SIE of Sant Feliu de Llobregat, at a time when their workers were on strike because they denounced that since 2014 the staff had been cut from twelve to eight workers. These eight women workers had to cover a population of 806,000 and, in the last quarter of 2017 alone, a total of 595 women had filed complaints. The workers explained that there were long waiting lists and that, for example, to be attended by a psychologist, it was necessary to wait almost a year. They also reported that the entities managing the services had ceased to cover medical discharges, which represented an overstretched effort for the rest of the professionals. Stress isn't just because they can't provide treatment, it's also because they don't have the resources to offer them. The President's own adviser acknowledged here that, in 2017, only one hundred and two victims were able to access a home and one hundred and three, in 2018, and that now fifty more places would be created, but there are thousands who need this service. It is true that a small part of the women in Catalonia have their own resources to cope with the rental of a home, which allows them to stay away from their aggressor, and to pay for professionals who facilitate their physical and psychological rehabilitation, but the vast majority depends entirely on a saturated care network. We will support all the points contained in this motion, which are, in fact, minimal, to put us to work on a problem that has become a priority for society, but which still does not exist for the Government of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.81.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now to position himself, has the word, in the first place, the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the deputy lady Natalia Sánchez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.82.0	Good morning. From the escó, president. Well, we'll also give support to this young man. When I heard the rest of the Members talking about the virtues of the law, which we also think it is important to remember the need to deploy all the instruments that were exposed to it, I thought of these eleven years, of an law, as it has already been said, pioneer, a law that, moreover, we can say that no of the base, no of the feminist movements, which, even, was drafted from this perspective, right? , from the same feminist movement and women's collections. In this sense, put it in value, right? , one of the great differences that this law makes, which is to name things by their name and to name male violence as'male violence' and not as 'generous violence' or, as some prefer, 'domestic violence'. This is not an unfortunate issue, as we say, as we call things important and, more importantly, in a context where there are those who want to deny questions and realities that put women's lives at risk. It's important to name, I insist, things for his name. And it's important to circumscribe in the place, isn't it? In that context, the state law that circumscribed, right? , male violence in the context and in the sphere of the pair. This law is important, and it is important, and we will also support it, especially, because, if we have to put a headline on this motion presented by the Catalan Parliamentary Group in Comú We can only say that the good laws need a presuppositional endowment in order to be able to develop, sure, but we also say that they are questions that we believe are minimal. Especially, we want to pay attention to one of the petitions that is also in the motion, which is to denounce, once more, the unpacking of the public sector, as this affects the lives of women, the material conditions of women and, therefore, those who suffer male violence. It is necessary to recover the public management of all the services of the attention network and of the integral recovery of the women. We have SIADs, it has already been said, in situations that are totally out of date, with professionals who almost do a militant task because they are saturated, precarious and totally out of date in the attention required by victims, survivors of male violence. One issue, which we may have found to be missing, but we also want to name in this remaining time, is that one of the shortcomings that in the deployment of the law..., is a reference – and I end, president – to a question that incorporated the law, which was the transversality, the transversality with regard to the gaze on male violence and, therefore, the formation; as a cross-training to all workers and public workers in order to be able to attend to the needy, and the needy of women who have suffered male violence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.83.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Congresswoman Esperanza García. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.84.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, well, practically the past year is complete for years, precisely, of the anniversary of Law 5/2008, the law of the right of women to eradicate male violence, and a report is made detailing which are the questions that do not help in the deployment of this law, in relation to what is allowed or what is intended to protect, that is dignity, that is security, autonomy, not to be exploited or abused and also not to suffer any form of discrimination. And one of the things that very much called attention is that only – only – a 27_percent of the women had filed a complaint and that, even in Catalonia, there were 370 cases of genital mutilation, that many times we spend a little bit on it, but it's one of the most invasive and violent things that can be done to a woman, especially when she's a girl, isn't it? If, to this, we also add the data that he gave us the report and the annual memory of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, I think we have an alarm. And why am I saying that? Because it gives the chance that, in Catalonia, the government still doesn't take it seriously, does it? But the reality is that, in Catalonia, there are fewer protection orders and, in fact, there are only 51_per_cent and the average of all Spain is, precisely, practically, 70_per_cent, with which there is an obvious leap that should be investigated and forced, at all events, the Government, the Councillor of Justice and the Councillor of the Branch to speak with the judiciary to see what are the reasons for this massive refusal, above all, bearing in mind that, in the end, only one of the five women who were murdered last year had a protection order. So, this young man who is here today, here, I think he has a lot to see with this chronic blindness that the government has and with some policies that they have promoted is a 24-percent drop from the premise in policies against male violence. That said, we will vote in favour practically of the whole motion. First of all, we are absolutely in agreement that the premise for these policies must be laid down; that a comprehensive intervention programme must be made against masculinist rapes, complementing it, and we will practically vote in favour of all points, because we believe that if the Government does not take it seriously, as a minimum, the opposition will force it to take it seriously.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.85.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I, finally, to position herself on the exams, has a turn, again, the deputy Segovia. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.86.0	Okay. Many thanks for the presentations, for the explanations of vote that have been made. I would like to address the support groups to Government, who say that they would like to vote all in favour, vote all in favour, no one will stop them, because, above all, I think we need to use this chamber in order to demand it. And, at some point, I would give it to MP Artadi, when she was a counselor, or if so, use us, use us for, too, in the departments that will then have to have between the departments, really, fighting against masculinist violence and feminist politics is a priority. Because, like opposition groups, there are various things that they can do and, like, every time you get together for Cat they get the subject of assumptions, don't worry, that everything that our group can do because the assumptions of the year come back to everything that's in this young man, we will do it; so don't worry that it won't be that way. That is why, precisely, we did not accept to detail it, because we will not accept less than what is on this motion for any assumptions for the coming year. And I think it's important that somehow it's a relationship between what passes in Parliament and what's after the Law of Presuppositions, if it comes up. That there's no coordination, I'm not saying, I haven't invented my group. The entities told the National Commission's recent meeting for the Coordinated Intervention of the Fight against Masclist Violence, because the working groups that have to boost it are not working, and I believe that what was felt there was very strong as to put into evidence that the government is not doing enough. The situation in which the SIAD workers are in has already been discussed, the precariousness with which the SIES have been financed has been commented, but there have not been four, there have not been eight, there have not been four, and they want 2020 to continue to have a 'hidotze'; or, then, they do not think of doing more than the year is coming. I believe that this Parliament, in this matter, must be very strong and I believe that the support groups to the Government must use this Parliament to tell their Government that it must be strong in this response. And for Citizens, on the subject of accompanying kids' law, we will already have the debate, but it's not that we don't want it: it's that we didn't want 95 percent of our peers, that we've been listening to them for hours and hours. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I'd recommend you escort yourself...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.87.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.88.0	...you're the ones who showed up. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.89.0	Thank you. We called for a vote. Are there separate voting petitions? [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Caula...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.90.0	We would ask for a separate vote on point 4.b, 4.c, 4.d and point 8, which could be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.91.0	4.b, 4.c, 4.d and 8. All right. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Well, then we'll vote first on this block with points 4.b, 4.c, 4.d and 8, and after the rest of the vote. The vote on these four points has begun. These four points were approved by 67 votes in favour, 1 against and 63 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved, that is, 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. As long as we're done before what was expected, we now suspend the Ple until three o'clock in the afternoon, and not a quarter of four; at three o'clock in the afternoon, okay? [[Pause.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.92.0	[[Motion subsequent to the inquiry on the management of the public order]] [[302-00168/12]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.197.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the motion following an inquiry by my parliamentary group, Citizens, about public order, which is nothing but coexistence. We could agree, we should, because this motion is about rights and freedoms and that one cannot defend oneself in the defense of rights to violate the rights of others. We all know it; we don't have to study law, we've been taught in school since we were little. These are the maxims that we learn when we say: "Don't do to others what you don't want others to do to you or" our freedom ends where the freedom of the other begins. We could come to an agreement, but if that bench, this whole part of the Chamber, [[the speaker assigns the left sector]] I do not think that their rights are above the rights of this part of the House. [[the speaker does not assign the right sector]] , that bench represented by a government that right now has no representative, of a government that does not look at all and of the political domes that accompany it, that have come so far after violating the rights of the deputies, of the representatives of the citizenry, here, six times, since 2016. And so said the Constitutional Court. And from here, from what was happening in this Parliament, it happened on the street. And what happened happened, because in his flight forward, day yes, day also, the issue he divides and the issue he confronts, with which they came to strike, and there are some people who are currently in jail for having committed sedition. So, how far have we come in Catalonia? To a limit situation around public order, painful for the vast majority of Catalans, worrying and sad for the rest of the Spaniards and demolishing for the Mossos d'Esquadra and the other bodies and security forces of the State, who have been attacked with impunity by the radicals. Because you, this part, decide every day who has more rights. People who build a barricade of fire on a highway have more rights than the trucker who intends to bring his goods of fruit or vegetables to Switzerland or France. Because those of the stacked tyres have a good look, because they belong to their own. They have more rights to shut down the Meridian than parents do that night, so they have to go to the pharmacy to buy a medicine for their baby. Members who were collapsing the airport on 14 September have more rights than passengers who wanted to return on a flight to their home or that gentleman who unfortunately died after pulling his suitcase for four kilometres when he had to take out the boarding pass. And do you know the proof that everything we say is true? The data. There are always the data to give answer, facts and data. You put between the sword and the wall the Mossos d'Esquadra. From 2015 to October 8, 2019, which included the illegal referendum, the courts of the AVE, the assault on the Parliament of October 2018, with forty-three wounded and thirty moss injured, even with fractures, they have done their job, they have identified the violent, and then there has been no sanction. There has been no sanction because this file has an administrative procedure and there is a time when politicians touch it. And that's when it's used politically not to punish the lawbreaker if it's because of him. And this motion tries to reverse that situation, it's a first step. They voted in favour of the fact that those who cut off roads or storm airports are not exercising their right of assembly: they are curtailing the freedom of all others. Say with us that we appreciate the work of the anti-riots, the ARROs and the Brimo of the Mossos, and also the National Police and the others..., and the Civil Guard. And that we condemn the violence carried out yesterday by the totalitarians in the UAB, against S'Ha Afinet! , an organization of students who do nothing but exercise their freedom as constitutionalists, because they believe in it. It's easy. They assume that this path is not the right one, respect and ensure respect for the freedoms of all Catalans, for their dignity. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.93.0	To defend the papers presented has the word, first of all, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the MP Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.94.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor, certainly, this young man from Ciutadans, I would say that it does not bring anything to the management of the public order; in fact, I believe that he has a concept of the public order that is sufficiently extended from which my group defends. But above all I think it brings nothing to coexistence; when the more necessary it is, the less they do. Sometimes language and the way to say things marks a lot of what we want to say. And so it doesn't facilitate agreements and above all it doesn't help the dialog, and this young man has a language that costs. Still sharing the background sometimes, the shape marks a lot the way it is. Look, I'll explain to you: our concept of public order is not sung to the management of a demonstration, and I assume the counselor will agree with me, is not circumscribed at the time of the manifestation or concentration. The public order begins, its management, when the police have knowledge of a manifestation or a concentration, because it is communicated or because it has knowledge. And it doesn't end until the end of the performances, once these have already happened, and then it uses all its own mechanisms, close to the Department of Interior. But that's what I'm telling you, it's not to do the pilot to Councilman Buch, that he knows he's not, just because he says the law, among other things, the law of Catalonia, and so it's the legal framework in which we find ourselves and we've been gifted. And I want to point out the importance when I say appropriate mechanisms, because they have to determine whether or not we are appropriate to the protocols, but also the actions of the professionals and, therefore, draw conclusions to know what we need to improve and avoid responsibilities, if that is the case. The law of the police of Catalonia also tells us what the function of the police is: to ensure that the right and the fundamental rights at the meeting and demonstration can be exercised; but it also tells us that this exercise affects the least possible exercise of other rights, not least important, and above all – and in this I can share with the previous Member his intervention – to all those who attend the rest of the public space, that it is a democratic space and that it is the space of coexistence, in which we all want to be. In order to manage this increase in rights, among other things, the police have various tools – and I look forward to seeing that in the Councillor's appearances we have not talked about – from mediation to the use of force, which is obviously to be done with principles of congruence – to be done – opportunity, and proportionality. Therefore – and the motion raises it, but the issue is how it is raised – we are ahead of the conjugation of a right of speech and other rights that can also be combined and managed. That's why we have professionals who are able to combine these two rights. And obviously, in this context – and in this I absolutely share what the honourable Member said before – there is no violent expression, at least on our part, against people or against public or private goods; nor is there any systemic harm or limitation of the right of all citizens to enjoy public space or the right to mobility. It's from that point that we have focused on this young man who presents Ciutadans. We have submitted papers that have not been accepted. I didn't find my willingness to agree, but in any case it's your young man, and we, therefore, defend the papers. And so... Among other things, we've presented papers – and here I stop for a moment before I explain the position – among other things, to facilitate, say, a little dialog, and also this spirit of coexistence to which we used to call the principle. But there's someone who's seen better with the confrontation, and that's what I'm telling the band and the band. It is not our position; therefore, in this sense we have done so. Still, we will vote in favour of point 1 – for the fund, not for the form. If you accept – which seems to be the case – to vote separately on paragraph 2 of point 2, then we will vote on this paragraph. And points 3, 7 and 9 will also vote in favour, for which it does in the exercise of the rights of all citizens or the recognition of the pocket of the public security professionals. And we will vote against the rest of the points. And I'd like to make an element of point five, point five talking about the commission of inquiry. We had asked to replace it, basically, because it functions without internal mechanisms, which are what we think should work. And, among other things, because, as the president of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Miquel Iceta, a committee of the Parliament, remembered in this chamber, it is not political responsibilities, and the chief political officer of the Squadron Mosses is the president of the Generality. Therefore, it cannot be the same person who asks for the commission and who has his own responsibility. For all this, and with this position, so... it's what we've explained in this young man. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.95.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, MP Esperanza García has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.96.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors, to see, in Catalonia we have suffered an absolutely black_me in question, in matter of public order. Under the excuse of supposed exercise of the right to vague, we have suffered blocking of communications, blocking of the free circulation of all the citizens of Catalonia, disturbances and fires of barricades, of public and private assets, to all the streets of Catalonia, especially to Barcelona, but it is true that you are to the rest of Catalonia. And I suppose by virtue of this, by virtue of the refusal, of the moment, despite the fact that the Councilman said that he did not know any impediment on the part of the Government of the Government of the Republic of Catalonia to be as accused of all the legal proceedings opened as a result of these disturbances in the streets of Catalonia, and in defence of those agents who were wounded by these disturbances, so we have a reason that I believe is appropriate, that it is adient, that it responds to the needs not only of the thing, but also of all the citizens of Catalonia that, by virtue of this supposed right of the vagueness, is not able to move freely, and that it has suffered effects and consequences of economic character, but also – and also – that it has seen freedom of speech. We wanted to enrich it with two elements, a first one that refers to the application at the end, when there are identifications of people who are engaged in a right-of-the-place assumption of boycotting and collapsing Catalonia, so that there are consequences, because there are identifications and the law must be applied: the law must be applied to public security and the law must also be applied to the law of the place; this is the expression at point 2 of the young person. And a formal condemnation of the attack yesterday, another time more, the boys and students of 'It's over! on the campus of Autonome, which cannot be normalized or banalized – the violence cannot be banalized, justified or normalized. And one last thought at the last point, where it was also spoken, so, this..., if there is not a hint of inconvenience in character in these actions, that the Generalitat does, as it has done in other assumptions, as it did in the "Encircle the Parliament", that in its moment there was character and that it should be the common rule to follow for the Government of the Generalitat. With this we would like to thank the proponents of this motion who have accepted these two items and we will vote in favour of the majority.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.97.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is now the return of Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.98.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors... well, in this young man you have us..., has begun her intervention said that she was a young man on rights, which makes me think that our group, which is obvious, right? But we have a very different view, not only about the public order model, but also about what we mean by democracy – and then I will talk about it. But, in any case, entering more into public questions, which was a good part of the question of the young man, you ask for a follow-up of things that obviously we don't share, right? I mean, you're asking, for example, that I don't think there's a commission of inquiry into the facts of these last few months, about police activity, and we don't understand what the problem is with those facts being investigated, with which we can be knowledgeers of exactly what happened, because for us a democratic police is a police that explains itself, which is accountable, which is transparent... And, in fact – and we also disagree here with the message presented by the PSC – we believe that we should be able to audit ourselves externally, and not internally, as happens in other countries, such as the United Kingdom, huh? ; therefore, we are not proposing anything else in the world, but something that many human rights entities also propose, such as Amnesty International. You're asking your lady too, aren't you? , equip the Squad Mosses Cos and public law enforcement – Brimo and ARRO – with stronger tools, right? That is to say, with this tendency of this very militarized public order model, and defend this model of public order based on distance and theoretically with a gradual use and escalation of force, which is not what we saw in the police actions of these last months. An intense pattern of physical strength, awe, coercion, right? And, of course, it must also be said that the tools that currently have the Cos de Mosso d'Esquadra are not minor, is it not? From the fucking, the extensible defense, the different gasses, the salvos, the foam projectiles, the Taser guns, the water cano... So, in case they come to say that we want to disarm the body when it's a thing that's extremely armed and with some tools that we could see that its misuse and its arbitrariness or sometimes, right? As they are used indiscriminately, for the same natural many times of these tools, so they are highly harmful. What we believe is that we can just captivate the public order model, and so we are at the antepods of its public order model, and move from the current model, based on distance and repression, to a model based on mediation, sensitisation, prevention, right? , and therefore with a very different conception from what we currently have and from what the Citizen Group also shares, in this case, with the Government. So we go into the difference that I think we have in relation to how we understand democracy, and that doesn't mean that some of us follow better than others, but we just understand them in different ways. That was Congressman Martin Blanco this morning, wasn't it? That if democracy was the same in català or castle; we are not here, but we do understand that there are different ways of hearing democracy. You understand it from a more liberal perspective, more based on individual rights– and that's what you've exposed here too –; we understand that democracy for a band is based on dissent, and so the right to dissent, the right to protest, the right to protest, the right to express oneself, the right to gather, all of which are intrinsic elements of the same democracy, but more also we understand that democracy, from a more republican perspective, is based on collective construction, and so on as from collectivity we build our communities. And from this more republican perspective we also understand that democracy is based on freedom, including non-dominance, and that is why it is all abuse of power, police abuse and institutional violence that we fight. And here I'm also referring to the independence bench, with our conception of democracy as non-dominance, right? From freedom to non-dominance, you also see that the half of a society cannot impose its will on the other half, and therefore we also criticise here the visit of some group, which is even called the Republic Group, which uses a conception of freedom which, in our view, would be contrary to this idea of freedom as non-dominance, and thus as an abuse of power. In any case, simply show that we differ in the public order model; we also differ in the democracy model that you propose to us, and so we will vote against this motion. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.99.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Ms Maria Sirvent. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.100.0	Yes, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, well, this young man presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group speaks precisely about the management of the public order, but the deputy when she came out to defend this young man tried to explain it from a few banners, didn't she? , on the one hand of the hemicicle and on the other hand of the hemicicle. But, in reality, here the problem that there is a problem with political dissent, with the exercise of the right to protest, and above all with criminalizing the ability of the organized people to transform the status quo. And, therefore, here we can also talk about those who defend the right to housing, of Andalusia that defends the right to public health, of the Murcia veins that were manifested by the underground of the AVE, or for example those who defend the barrels of tourism and real estate speculation. That the deputy of Catalonia in Común has also turned this into a barricade between a banner and another, we are quite surprised, the truth, because here we are talking about the management of political dissent, and his group, Ciutadans, is the first one to qualify and label all those who defend the civil, social and political rights that are constantly violated on the part of the Spanish State's apparatuses. In fact, the prisons of the Spanish State are full of prisoners and political prisoners, they are also full of those who defend the right to freedom of expression, freedom of demonstration, freedom of assembly and those who defend rights as far-reaching as education or public health. And, therefore, we will not contribute in any case, with this young man, to criminalizing the transformation skills of social movements and people organized to change the status quo and to change a society that claims to be democratic but that does not respect the most fundamental rights of the population.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.101.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Núria Picas, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.102.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, we find ourselves in front of a new Ciutadans exercise to build the report that interests you, to create its own reality and to make it see that its false speech and charged with inventions has somewhere to support itself, but not the tea. Therefore, we will not enter the game and obviously vote against the motion, the whole motion. A young man who, with the excuse of public order, is still more repressive; who is still close to limit the right to protest, the right to protest, and who is close to limit the criminalization of the people, the people, the collectivities that carry months and years of age, by means of attacks on their rights and their freedoms. You, presenting this young man, do your job. They all have some fish of puzzle on the table, every piece of media, legal, police, politics can be read clearly and very big. "Repressive state of rights and freedoms of people and people; that's what you read in this puzzle. We can talk about rape and we can talk about public order, of course we can talk about it: with whomever it is. No one likes rape. And because we always defend that all forms of change, of democratic struggle, are peaceful. I am drawn to the attention – and the Member of Parliament has already commented – that in one of the points of this motion you urge the Government to ensure that the anti-disturbing units of the Mossos d'Esquadra are equipped with « robust tools that allow them a range of tactical options, etc.. Listen to me, didn't you have enough, with the rape of October 1st? Didn't they have enough? Have they not had enough with the rape of rubber pilots, which in this Parliament are forbidden to the Catalan police? Of this kind of violence, you obviously don't want to talk about it. I said a few weeks ago in this chamber, and I will repeat again, that violence is not the way to demand justice, but, Lords of Ciutadans, violence will never be the way to establish order. And it's that you're incompetent... [[applause]] to condemn violence – real violence, which this country has been living and patenting for a long time, and which is worse: it's a chance to invent itself 'not there, and to distort reality. Returning to '1 October, now, by the end, we have fifty national police investigated, and eight charged commands, and this, the Prosecutor's Office has against, and with the popular accusation of the Barcelona City Council that they have expelled him from the case. You could explain to me why your faixist friends in Vox filed a popular accusation against the democratic government of Catalonia. [[applause]] And now the Barcelona Assembly can't figure out how to repair the State's violence against three hundred and three hundred citizens of this city? Are we talking about this rape, the police rape, fucking? From political rape, applying 155, and from judicial rape, people are being held in jail. [[Some applause.]] Or the harsh one of September 23rd, which yesterday was defended by my company, José Rodríguez, with all the winging, the arrests, the violations and the extreme institutional violence that there was... and, finally, all a political repression. They don't have enough, either, with the four years of the law bite, that now, more than that, they want to apply a law bite digital, another 155 digital? And today they are presenting this motion to further limit the freedom of expression and the right to express themselves. And finally, he said to us in Jordi Cuixart: "We need constant mobilization, not violent, peaceful, persistent and full of courage. No one will be able to take that smile from us and no one will be able to take our right to constant and peaceful mobilization. Meanwhile, we will persist, we will not abandon the seats, we will not abandon the streets, because peaceful resistance, mobilization, disobedience – always peaceful – are, together with the ballot boxes and with the votes, our best tool. You want to secretate the will of the people, but you won't be able to. You want to submissive and silent, but you won't get it. Because this immense wave of freedom is unstoppable. And, by the way, speaking of freedom, we see ourselves on the 18th of December at Camp Nou, because they'll find us all peacefully up there. Thank you very much. [[Greetings and remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.103.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the return of Mr Ferran Roquer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.104.0	Thank you... thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, public, well, Mrs. Picas left it all up. [[Rialles and some applause.]] But, well, this young man who presents us with enough differences, makes a barrage of everything, but there is a common denominator: the criminalization of the independence movement, with true myths, lies and judgments of value. The protest, ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, the protest is lawful in democracy, it is necessary because democracy is full and it is an obligation of the public authorities, it is an obligation of the government to stay the instruments because it is able to last. That's what the Constitution says, and that's what the Spanish Constitution says. Imagine if it's important. [[Widow's remorse.]] But what limits do you have? What are your limits, this protest? Look, in a democratic society, urban space is not just an area of circulation; it is also a space of participation. We understand that the holders of the right of manifestation can decide freely on the instruments or vehicles to get their message to the recipient, and even when it involves the occupation of the public space. And that's what I'm telling you because I want to defend the demonstrations that took place in Catalonia this year, on October of this year, because the people who showed up had ideas that looked like mine? So no. No, no, no. Do you know who's saying that? The Constitutional Court, this instrument which acts as the organ of the Government, when governmentally, when politically do not guanyen re, serve the Constitutional Court. So the Constitutional Court says in Judgment 195 of 2003 that public space can be used and must be used for the protest. And I'll still say the more – I'll still say the more –, he says: "The installation of a camp in a public domain space for twelve days – and twelve nights; twelve days and twelve nights –, "with a tendency for people to stay overnight – who stayed there to sleep and everything –," can be subsumed in the right of assembly and demonstration. Nor do I say this, nor has it passed to Catalonia: this is a judgment of the High Court of Justice of Castile and Lion which refers to acts of protest in the barri del Gamonal, of Burgos. They see, therefore, that in these courts, these courts which you come to and which you often control, it seems that the limits of the fundamental rights must be applied with a very and very restrictive criteria. We're worried about different things about your young lady. But do you know what I'm extremely concerned about? That in the vague text the word « tumults –» tumults appear continuously. He said that there were violent and tumultuous acts, that there had been riots and tumultuous actions, or that there had been serious riots and riots. And you know, why am I worried about this, you guys from Ciutadans? Because of the first times I heard about riots around September and October 2017, he was a gentleman who is a politician and a tweeter who calls himself Tacitus, who when he is neither a tweeter nor a politician [[relays]] It's not said tacitly, it's a colonel of the Civil Guard. [[applause]] And it's said Daniel Baena. And this individual perpetrated a few times that they had no name or shame and that served the Jutjat 13 of Barcelona and Judge Llarena to instruct a novel process that served because new honest people ended up in more than a century, condemned by siege! [[Greetings.]] Certainly a crime against public order! , not the constitutional order. Gentlemen, representative democracy does not exhaust the participation of citizens in elections. The right of manifestation is of the few rights that citizens have to express their ideas publicly. And it bothers, there is a certain disease in the protest, it is obvious that there is a certain disease; but the rest of the citizens have to assume it. Deia Voltaire: "I do not share your ideas, but I would give my life because you can defend them. Think the same way about you? Or is it that you're worried about defending different ideas than your own? Obviously, we will vote against the conjunction of the infamous motion that they have presented to us. [[Greetings and remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.105.0	Thank you, Congressman. In order to pronounce on the papers, the honourable Member Munia Fernández-Jordan has the word now. Forward. [[(Whispering) Quiet.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.106.0	Thank you, President. We have negotiated some amendments with the PP. We were told by the Member of the PSC about her amendments, which we had not accepted. We thought they were decafeinating the motion a bit; we were talking about concrete things, we didn't want that level of abstraction that you have offered us. And, indeed, we are talking about fundamental rights, assembly and demonstration, and that all others must be preserved beyond. With regard to the issues that Members have said on this side of the bench to which I referred before..., they have been absolutely defined in their vision of violence. But you also talk about fundamental rights, when it is demonstrated by the Constitutional Court how you violated our fundamental rights. And there is one more question: if with this speech from the colleague of Junts who has just spoken, he would comment on the whole question of fundamental rights..., where are the fundamental rights of freedom, the right to freedom of expression of the young people of S'Ha Afinat! at the University of Barcelona? Where are they? [[Greetings.]] Where are your fundamental rights? You only defend the fundamental rights that are yours, nothing more than yours; those of others are trampled on day after day, as we always denounce. But there's also a question, and it's that what we can't understand, gentlemen of the PSC or PSOE of Iceta, as you want to call it. [[remorse of the voice]] It's how it's possible that you're negotiating a government with Mr. Sanchez right now...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.107.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.108.0	... by the hand of these parties, by the hand of ERC, a president of a political party who is in prison for having committed sedition. There's the problem. Here is Citizens, Mrs. Arrimadas has already told you, there they have their hand stretched out, do not fall on these people who have already defined themselves with their speeches and are defined every day in Catalonia. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.109.0	Mrs Escarp, why ask me the word? [[Pause.]] Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.110.0	Thank you, President. No, just to make a point that I think is important: Mrs Picas, on the 18th afternoon there is a plenary of this Parliament of Catalonia, I remember that because, before your call, we, and I believe that many of the Members will be here. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.111.0	Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] Don't you? All right. So we'll vote for the... [[Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]] Say'm...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.112.0	Yes, Mr. President, who has taken me here... we would need to vote for point 1, for one band, and the second part of point 2, point 3, point 7 and point 9, for the other.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.113.0	The second part of point 2, point 7...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.114.0	...of point 2, point 3, point 7 and point 9.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.115.0	What can they vote together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.116.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.117.0	All right. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Let's vote, then, in the first place, point number 1. The vote begins. Point 1_has been rejected by 38 votes to 76, with 16 abstentions. And now we vote on the second part of point 2; 3, 7 and 9. The vote begins. These points have been rejected by 54 votes in favour, 76 against and no abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 37 votes in favour, 93 against and no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into lost opportunities for business fabric]] [[302-00169/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the lost opportunities for business, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word the deputy José María Cano. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.118.0	Thank you, President. Look, today we are talking about missed opportunities, and I think that, at this point in the film, if one thing is very clear about citizenship, the process has brought us nothing good. And it is that populisms are always like this: they bring absolutely nothing good. Well, they only serve to take advantage of a few, those who live very well from all this monotheme. I think you know who I'm talking about, don't you? : senior officials, advisors, public-money entities and a whole customer network created over forty years and that parasitizes the Catalan institutions. But for the rest of the mortals, whether they are independentists or not, everything is being a cruel nightmare that is impoverishing us. And they are making every time this land is a less open land, that every time it is a less cosmopolitan land, less and less plural, and as Catalan I say to you with much sadness, I can assure you, and it is that the economic damage they generate is just one more element, because the most serious and most outrageous thing is that they have divided Catalan society, they have gotten into the houses and they have broken up coexistence. If you have a social circle wide enough – and I sometimes doubt seeing your speech – you know: you know that you have broken families, you know that you have broken friendships, you know that you have contaminated even the work environments. And from the economic point of view, what have they done? For they have caused the flight of thousands of companies, companies that do not return because they cannot live without legal certainty, because they cannot speculate with living outside the European Union. And they have caused investors to rethink their decisions. Cases such as the loss of the European Medicines Agency is just one example, an example of missed opportunity, an example of job squandering. And Catalan entrepreneurs have had to overcome the law of silence that they impose from power to raise their voice before a government that justifies incivic acts, that trivializes violence, that threatens with the exit of the European Union, that claims violent ways or that it supports the making of lists of good and bad companies. And if we talk about trade and tourism, the degree of despair is highest; they are desperate to see the fire at the door of the establishments, to see the chaos in the main Catalan cities. And the cruel thing is that workers and trade unions fear for their jobs. And they already have to say it openly, because workers can't change their homes, as companies have done, but despite that they are getting rid of them. There are many Catalans already fed up with this suffocating process who have changed their residence or are thinking about going; they feel that their land is no longer cozy. Lords of the process, they lied to the Catalans promising paradise. And his obsession with raising a border outside of another kind of much quieter considerations is impoverishing the Catalans; it impoverishes us as a society and it is impoverishing one of the most prosperous regions. And the most desperate thing, I assure you, is that after all this disaster they have caused, they have learned absolutely nothing, they remain the same. And it is time for them to begin to be accountable; for this Parliament and the citizenry to know the truth. Catalans have every right to know how the process is affecting their lives and their future, how it is affecting in terms of GDP – we are no longer the locomotive of Spain – in terms of economic growth, in terms of jobs and lost opportunities, even in terms of health, I assure you. Look, the councillor herself, Mrs Chacón, is talking about setting a price for Catalans to know the enormous cost of all this assembly. And I hope that it will do so because it is already beginning to feel guilty, I hope that it will do so because it is already beginning to feel the weight of all these lies, given the evidence that they will continue to harm Catalans if they do not stop, if they continue in the way of confrontation and the 'how much worse, better, if they continue to try to destroy our political community from within the institutions themselves. With this motion we propose two things. The first, I think, is the most obvious: stop, stop doing harm. And the second, the constitution of a commission of study that begins to quantify all this disaster, the effect of the changes in social headquarters, the effects of the legal insecurity that it generates; that quantifies all the damage that you defend, that you encourage, making the incivics feel immune, unpunished, and that citizenship goes wrong. We've been explaining all this to him since day one. And before, the denunciation was made by us alone, but now there are many accredited voices that necessarily unite us. And finally, I want to address the gentlemen of the PSC and the commons: they cannot shut up and be responsible for this ideology that is impoverishing us; they have to tell them the truth, they have to tell them that they are playing the Russian roulette with the future of all of us. We can't keep our arms crossed. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.119.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next has the word to defend the papers presented, first place, the deputy Alicia Romero, of the PSC Group - Units to Advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.120.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Counselor, MPs, MPs, well, we'll find again a motion of these repetitive ones, won't we? Why, bfff! Don't stop talking about it. Surely, as in any society where there is a conflict like Catalonia, an important political conflict, which certainly lasts a long time, so it is true and logical that this has consequences of many kinds: for coexistence – we have also not talked here so much – and also in the economy. And I think that this is hard to objectify..., and that's something I went to Congressman Cano, I think it's very difficult to objectify the lost opportunities, because no one will say that he didn't come through the process, or any company, and he'll say that he stops investing for the political situation in Catalonia, or we won't know if any of the companies he had to invest in a southern city of Europe ruled out Barcelona for that. It's very complicated to know. You can say that, yes; you can do great, here, speeches, but it seems to me that you are irresponsible to say that we have lost many opportunities, the few, the fifty, the three hundred. Now, it is also true that an escort, therefore, is the same, the president of the SEAT or another of the leaders of HP to say that the political situation in Catalonia..., political instability, legal insecurity, yes, it is true that it makes companies retrieve or remain very cautious at the time of taking decisions in Catalonia, for which it makes the reversal, or more reversal, or the installation of new factories. And, therefore, this is a reality. Now, accounting for this is very complicated and very difficult. We, many months ago, presented a motion that, more than just putting this out of the question, asked the Government – which, moreover, was approved and not just done – an agreement for the best of Catalonia's reputation, to do so with social and economic agents, and to work to give a different image to what we have probably been giving and giving every day in plenary, because that is really, more quickly, in Estonians– it seems..., it's a theater, isn't it? But Ciutadans insists on saying 'it's all a disaster,' that's not good, etc. And I guess now I'm getting out of the companies and companies of the groups that support the government to say that it's all great, because here the question is always looking at the coin of the cost that's more good for us, and not posing on the other side, being a little more honest and seeing that reality is always enough polyhedral. Well, I say it so many times that I say even a heavy one, yes, because I hate myself even to listen to myself. But it's true that we'd all be more honest politically if we were to see and tell each other that things aren't so good or so bad, they're not so good or so bad. And in this sense I have been very critical and our group has made presentations in this line to the Ciutadans Group to say to them: "Secute, do not make proposals that we cannot object. Why do we want a committee that looks at lost opportunities? What, losers? If they don't know. It's just that it's very complicated. So, we want to do a little more in place, and our papers are a little more in this line. Listen, what can we do to get back in business, or what can we do to come in more – I don't say I'm coming in anymore, okay, no, because some of us are coming in, but why can't we come in more –, what can we do because our fabric is more solid, what can we do because we don't have so many EROs. That's what I'm saying. This always costs us with Ciutadans, because they like them, so, focus on what goes wrong; how we will certainly listen to the others..., on what goes well. Anyway, I think a little more honesty for all of us would be fine. Still, we've made some deal with Mr. Cano, because I guess, so, at the end of the day, we all see that some, some gesture we have to do to try to move forward, and, therefore, some of our proposals have been more or less accepted. There's an element here, at some point that we've done and that has been accepted as it is, that has to do with the assumptions, isn't there? The tax policy law says that the law must be introduced before October 10th. We don't like it anymore. We were going to approve here a motion, a resolution, I don't remember if it was in the general policy debate, which we demanded was before the end of October. The government, the groups that support the government, voted in favour of it, because it seemed they were flying in this line. After that, he arrived on October 31st and we have no presupposition proposal; we are about to finish the month, which today is the 12th, and neither do we have a presupposition proposal. Well, let's hope that the assumptions arrive, that as a minimum we can debate them with light and stenographers, as the CUP always says, in this Parliament and we can between all reviews and improve them, therefore, in the measure of our possibilities. But it's true that I think we're in too many years without doing the work that we do when we play. And one of the most important tasks of this Parliament, as well as the Government, is to present a proposition of assumptions, than not above. And therefore, bearing in mind that it is the most important law that parliaments approve, it would be well for the government to strive to do its work and present this law when it is near. We're no longer in time for this year, but how about we start the year with a proposal here to talk about things that really concern people. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.121.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of the deputy Santi Rodríguez, of the Subgroup of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.122.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... Mrs Romero, I don't know if..., it seems to me that it was the bad luck that made me touch after you, and then it's inevitable to be able to..., not to have to go through some other questions that you mentioned. Clearly, you made a statement that I can get to share, right? ; says: "The reality is polyhedral. But, listen, if we have to talk about polyhedrals, more polyhedral than the Socialist Party knows anyone. As a matter of fact. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] More polyhedric than the Socialist Party knows no one! No; because last week they said that the problem of Catalonia was a problem of coexistence, and you see here at the Faristol and say: « The political conflict between Catalonia and Spain. [[Widow's remorse.]] They learn the lesson very quickly! Yes, yes – yes, yes. Mr. Rufian already sees that he taught them the lesson very quickly – very quickly –, right? Mr. Cano, we share, we share a lot, or rather – a lot, a lot –, huh? The diagnosis you make. Certainly, the situation of legal uncertainty is what causes the Catalan economy not to go as it has always been: very well; but it presents signs of hesitation, shows signs of weakness and presents some very important weaknesses, and certainly that is because of the political situation we live in, without any doubt. Businesses have gone away, it is evidence, and the weakness of the economy is demonstrated by growth..., also important, because we have, the Catalan economy has rhythm, but not at the same pace as in previous years and not at the same pace of taking advantage of opportunities. Some will need proof, but, well, there are companies that have said what they have said, not just the SEAT, not just the one quoted by Mrs Romero; Tesla said: "Listen, then, we are going to Berlin, because in Catalonia we do not trust what can end up happening. And that's published this way, isn't it? And other companies that decide to make their investments outside Catalonia so it can happen in Catalonia. This is a reality. What I don't know if I disagree but I do want to point out is that I don't know if, so much, this is the result of chance..., of the decisions made by the government, I don't know if it's so much the result of chance. Oriol Junqueras already said in 2013 that what had to be done was to stop the Catalan economy from pushing Spain. So, I'm afraid this is all part of it too. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] of a political strategy, unfortunately. [[Widow's remorse.]] We have presented..., we have presented two papers – quickly –: a request...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.123.0	Vagi ending, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.124.0	... calling for the application of tax reform, and another: let us not derogate from the royal decree that allows the mobility of enterprises, which is not only useful because they are going to go, but also because they are coming. And we...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.125.0	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.126.0	...we don't want to give up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.127.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Then, to fix his position, has the first word, the deputy Yolanda López, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.128.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillor... Once again Citizens come to the plenary with the same dynamics. The truth is, you guys never have enough shows. When I read your proposals, it sometimes gives the feeling that you live in a parallel reality; rather, it is not that you live it, it is that you want us to believe that there is, that reality, and as I told you in the last plenary, before your account of the fire, your account of "Catalonia is Baghdad, they will have us against. Today you have come once again without a proposal for Catalonia, for the productive fabric, for our economy. It's funny that you say you're the protectors of the economy. And I ask you: what are you proposing to encourage the economy in Catalonia? What point of the motion is really useful in strengthening the productive fabric and the Catalan economy? What challenges are you facing in relation to our economy? I'll tell you: absolutely none. Once again they show that they are a party without proposals, without solutions and only living out of conflict. That is why you are the least interested in dialogue and consensus. That's why they always come to this plenary with the Matrix trilogy. The last plenary at least concealed a little bit with a little something about training, relocation programmes or trade support. But in this plenary, now, what are we going to hide, right? Why does it come with proposals that will improve the Catalan economy, right? It seems that you have not come here to work for Catalonia, but for the same show always. And look, in the guts of the government they have enough elements for which you can take the colors out, huh? But we're not going to be the ones doing this job to them while they're not proposing anything. The only thing we are going to do is make some proposals, recommendations, for when you think about coming up with proposals and elements of debate on the Catalan economy. For example, they could begin by raising the Government's inaction and the lack of a clear, cross-cutting and consensual road map between the different departments so that the National Pact for Industry can move forward, which is quite late. You could also come and put to the Government the need to move forward on green transition on renewable investment in order to react to the climate emergency and revolutionize the market in which our territory could be pioneering and exemplary. But this is for today and not tomorrow. That is why, and now I am addressing the gentlemen of the Government, we must now put the batteries in this direction. And, among other things, they could also come and tell the Government about the need for public transportation and the need for it to be productive and work with the Government of Spain so that we already have the Mediterranean Corridor. Each and every one of the elements I have just commented on is essential for the advancement, improvement and dynamism of our economy, and that is why we will vote mostly against this motion, for lack of content, for being empty. I do not want to forget to comment on the'stresses of the PP', for example, which seem even worse to us than the text of the motion itself. And, on the other hand, as much as the Socialist Party has wanted to settle this motion, it remains a motion of pure account, without any political and social content that serves to improve and advance the Catalan economy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.129.0	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez. Next is the turn of the deputy Vidal Aragonese, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.130.0	Vice-President, to speak from the Escó. As you can see from the Ciutadan Group's motions, they give a title to the motion, "on the lost opportunities for the business fabric, and then, let's go look at the body of the motion, and even all the agreements, and there's practically no reference to that; in fact, it's only about the Drug Agency and it's located in November 2017. And not a single example..., even though in his intervention the spokesman of the People's Party also wanted to give us an example, which was Tesla's..., which, of course, we recommend to all the Members who read an article by the journalist Ángel Ferrero that explains to us concretely who are the real causes for which Tesla has not installed productive activity in Catalonia and yes to other places in Europe. We say this because we obviously assume that what the proposed group should have done is go to ask for data from companies that have theoretically left Catalonia in the later period. So, look, we did it in the period between October 1, 2017, and July 31, 2018, and the data were very concrete: only and exclusively one hundred and thirty moved out of Catalonia and corresponded to organizational and productive causes; therefore, nothing to see with what assumed the construction that the Citizens' Group was already doing the last few years. They do give you data on unemployment – certainly, 10.9 Catalonia and 13.9 the middle of the Spanish State. And they give us a comparison of that with Madrid or the Community of Madrid, Navarre, Balearic Islands, La Rioja and Cantàbria. There's other data you don't give us. Mirin, what you don't say is that 2010 Madrid, Nafarroa, La Rioja and Cantàbria also had less unemployment than Catalonia. Neither do you give the data that October 2017 Balears, La Rioja and Nafarroa had less unemployment than Catalonia. And neither do you want to recognize the official data that, from 2017 to 2019, Catalonia has reduced the unemployment from 12,63_per_cent to 10,9_per_cent, decreasing much more, for example, in percentages than Asturias, Canàries or Castella and Lleó. And why don't you ever give these data? Because they really don't care about displacement, the only thing they want to do is make a relationship between independence movement and chaos, between a supposed reality in which the existence of a movement of national emancipation causes loss of occupation. But this, with the data, is not demonstrable; in fact, what they say the data is more quickly the contrary. That's right, look, if you want to talk about unemployment or you want to get to know a lot about unemployment, we'll give you a tip: talk to one of your deputies in Madrid, with Mr. Marcos de Quinto. When it was announced the biggest relocation of a company to the Spanish State in the last years, 1,250 workers and workers of the Coca-Cola bottler to Fuenlabrada, the assertion that Mr. Marcos de Quinto did is: "It makes sense business. We will always be on the side of our Madrid Germans and, of course, always, and above all, on the side of the « Coca-Cola Spartans, who did not accept this mantra of Mr. Marcos de Quinto.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.131.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, on behalf of the Republican Group, has the word deputy Alfons Montserrat.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.132.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, good late. Well, one more time, taking advantage of a young man, in this case, on the opportunities lost for the business fabric, what is done is not so much to analyze the situation of the product fabric and the factors that compete for it to improve it, but to use it as an excuse to present a catastrophic report, filled with conflict, social fracture, when only a few hours should be spent in our country to find that this is not so. To the young people they talk about the deterioration caused by the process, of "politicians obsessed with raising a border in the middle of the 21st century – I suppose this is not for Ceuta and Melilla –, or of a government of the Generalitat that "directly promotes and justifies sabotage and incivic and violent actions – this is textual. Look, if there's no more political instability, it's because you don't want to do more politics, because you prefer the way of justice to the way of politics. Do you know where he's been? In Scotland, Quebec, advanced democracies have organized self-determination referenda. Because what creates instability is repression, enterprise, prosecution and criminalization of the adversary. And they have to hear that it's legitimate to want independence and that the right to decide generates broad consent to our society. But, look, the reality is that, despite the turbulence of the international economy, the Catalan economy, with a solid, innovative and outward-open base, continues to advance, consolidating itself as the most attractive territory for foreign investment in southern Europe, as recognized by institutions of the prestige of the Financial Times. Even though, as was pointed out this morning for the same councillor, there are factors that can affect economies like ours, such as the case of the 4.0 revolution or other issues, such as the rise of protectionism, post-Brexit scenario, etc., huh? And they are these, and not those who speak to the youth, the real threats of our economy, and in which, as we have seen this morning, they are already working. And as we share this concern about the good economics, I'm sure we're all also concerned about the lack of neutrality of public power. And here I'm not talking about the gross links, but I'm talking about the legal uncertainty that creates amending legislation to make it easier for Catalan companies to change the location of their social partners; or the risk that it would take discretionaryly from the state of certain banking entities to force these changes; or to administrative pressures – inclusive monarchy – why do they come from the country, huh? ; or, among other things, to the arbitrariness of the systematic calculation at the bottom of the beasts paid by the State to the Generality and which is not reconciled until the end of two years when these beasts represent more than 90_percent of the entrances, right? This differential doesn't stop being a loan to zero interest, huh? If the alternative to shared taxes goes to increase the tax props, we find ourselves with a strategy of system-wide lamination of these Generality props. And here we can talk about what we say: at medium environmental risk radiotoxic, large commercial, nuclear, etcetera, right? So we find ourselves in a perverse situation where the expenditure capacity is decentralised but the ability to manage these resources associated with the expenditure is in fact non-existent. So, if what we want is to improve our competitive position, we have to overcome chronic fiscal deficit situations, such as..., huh? – if we look at it according to monetary flows, we would be more than 16,000_million; want 10 if it is the flow of benefits –, or improve also the degree of execution of investments – on the 2015-2018 tram, eh? , the reversal executed by the State on the assumption was 65,9_per_cent, i.e., give points per state. Or other examples of partiality we have in the systematic failure of the third additional provision of the Statute, which is certainly also a constitutional text. Therefore, there is no doubt that measures such as this or other very important actions such as the Mediterranean Corridor or the decentralised management of the airport are the ones that must enable us to overcome this structural problem that we are experiencing, eh? Having a state that plays against it makes it harder, and that's why we need to build an equal and forward republic. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.133.0	Thank you, Mr. Montserrat. Next, for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the return of MP Jordi Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.134.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, Vice President. MPs, MPs, well, a few weeks ago we were also discussing a very similar motion, with Mr Cano, also, the same, and, therefore, practically I was about to go out again with the same intervention I did a few days ago, because, in fact, we haven't changed the speech; the same speech, with an excuse, therefore, of background, to always repeat the same, right? And with adjectives and words of a little catastrophe, like you said, huh? : « grave, « deterioration, « insecurity, » have broken families and committees and... and I don't know what else, « run away, « nightmare, eh? I stress the nightmare, because now I'm going to say one thing. They are also very concerned about another fact; he says: « Catalonia is no longer the locomotive of Spain. That's what I'm talking Which is why I stopped being the locomotive of Espanya. But they don't propose on purpose to fix it, huh? Actually, they don't talk to us, really, or they're wrong about the causes or they're wrong about the diagnosis, huh? , because they don't talk to us, for example, about what he said a few days ago, a few days ago, Promoting National Work; he spoke or sifrated in 28,000_millions of the state's investment deficit in Catalonia. That's why they don't talk about it, neither are they complaining, nor have we felt, in the Spanish electoral campaign, that these are very worrying to them, on the contrary. Report that, in fact, you can see on the Foment website, huh? : roundabouts, access to the port of Barcelona, the transfer of the airport management, the Mediterranean Corridor, etcetera..., the national II, etcetera. The public investment in Catalonia is looking for a 9_per_cent, and we are contributing a 19_per_cent of GDP, huh? ; is located in an 11_per_cent only. In Madrid, for example, it creates a 113_per_cent. That's not what they're talking about, is it? They don't talk about it either. They're not talking about another fact that was also highlighted a few days ago – and I mention this entity because it's not exactly an entity that I can say is a pro-independentist, huh? –; says: "Madrid is a tax oasis; it does tax dumping to businesses. And that said the cover of Expansion and highlighted it the other day Work Promotion. In fact, it was also said by an economist, who can tell us that he is more of our friend, who had been a deputy in Germà Bel; he spoke of Madrid being an authentic black hole for the country's economy. In fact, at the last elections we have also seen, in the Spanish State, this revolt that says in the provinces, that they are revolting because everything is left of Madrid, eh? That's not what they're talking about, is it? Nor do they speak, for example, that the College of Economists, also another entity, therefore, apolitical, eh? , stresses that the main concern of the Catalan economy is the fiscal deficit, infrastructure – the deficit in state infrastructure – and structural reforms, which can be, for example, fiscal pressure, electricity prices, etc. In fact, tomorrow we also invite you to attend..., in the Chamber of Commerce, there is an interesting presentation of a study that says: "The economic impact of the state's infrastructure inversion deficit in Catalonia. And so we can actually see what is the diagnosis or cause of this defect that you are planting here and that you want to associate, therefore, with the process of independence of Catalonia. In fact, I'm left with other information, which you don't want to serve either. These days also came out to different media of press, of different ideology, that you can say: Barcelona, the fifth city at global level for engaging digital talent; the fourth most innovative city in Europe, which has put up four points; the seven city of the world in foreign investment; the first city of the world in re-delegated congresses; the eight of Europe in work-life balance, or the seven of the world chosen for expats, an international association, to settle in to live there, or the third to start a start-up. With all this I say that what you do as a nightmare for us is the dream, the dream we work with and support the government. We are in a better country, in a country that we go out in these lands with this power. That's why I understand it's a nightmare, because they're in a different context. The data from these last weeks – in October, eh? , this fatidic month for you, too – therefore, that we are repeating ourselves: increment of passengers to the airport of Prat ; increment of goods to the port of Barcelona ; increment of the expense of the tourism, up to a 10_percent of the overall expense, to the October, one_me in which, as I said, you worry very much. Also, business creation data: until October, 1.5_per_cent more has increased during..., sorry, 2018, 1.5_per_cent more; 2019, until October, 12,500 businesses believed more than what is destroyed, over other powerful communities like Madrid, huh? And by way of the Spanish medium, report that, besides, so, it's all analyzed, it's stuck to the website of the Generality, the Department of Enterprise, and you can consult, huh? In fact, I've only had one page, I'm already doing a little like you, which always teach photocopies. Here we see the evolution of the number of entrepreneurs in Catalonia, huh? How he grew up in the last few years. The net balance, obviously, huh? : enterprises that believe, enterprises that are dying; there are always enterprises, unfortunately, that are dying, right? He's stuck, too. It is also stuck to the website of the department this report that you claim about the impact of the companies that they fled, of the companies that they fled, therefore, because of fears..., as we know, but that it did not actually involve a loss of productive mass or a loss of jobs in Catalonia, as has already been said enough for my previous companies. For all this, as you can imagine – and for you, a nightmare – we will vote no. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.135.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy José María Cano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.136.0	Thank you, Vice President. Well, then, impressive, the economy lesson they've given me or they've given us all here. It now turns out that legal uncertainty, therefore, benefits the economy and, on the other hand, the economy very well. I, in fact, no longer understand why they want to make themselves independent, if it's going so well and this is going to wind up, so there's no need to do any of this. [[Greetings.]] I think we can stay the same. I've distinguished four basic speeches, haven't I? One would be that of the PSC who tell me: « José Maria, put yourself on the profile, okay? , « don't look at..., and so we leave it, because this is a responsibility, look, jobs are being lost, the workers are suffering and Mrs Romero says to me: « Put yourself on the profile, first of all. There is another speech, which is that of the commons, which says to me directly: « Put yourself behind your back [[relays]] , « turn your back on this reality. I don't understand that the commons, someone who was always against caste, end up supporting Convergence and Union, that's unthinkable to me, [[relays]] who ends up supporting them, supporting the litany of the one hundred thousand oppressed Eurists, the oppressed elite who is moving all this. Then he is the one of Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana, which is the fiscal deficit; that is, it is fiscal xenophobia, the « Espanya ens robs us. First, the data isn't like that. That figure is not real. Second, paying one country is very expensive; that is, we are already paying one, as if to pay another. They don't count that either. Thirdly, they are not very different as to set up a country. First, they have 3 percent corruption; therefore, no difference. Second, mismanagement is impressive; you just have to see, for example, the ATLL line. And thirdly, the desire to carry the economy, which is what they are doing now; therefore, very different cannot go to us. And then there is the speech that the CUP gave us, which is: « We have an 11_percent unemployment, but there are people who are worse. Look, that speech doesn't work for us; we have to work to make it better. Therefore, I encourage you to face up and study exactly what are the prejudices of the process, which is what I present here. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.137.0	Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Several Members are asking to speak.]] Say, Mr. Aragonese...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.138.0	Yes, Vice President, point 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.139.0	Mr. Pedret...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.140.0	Three-A.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.141.0	Three bis. Say'm, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.142.0	Yes, please, the 4 bis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.143.0	Mrs. Caula...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.144.0	For one thing, 10a and 13, which could be voted together, and for the other, point 3, 4, 6 and 14. And we would understand that when there are always many points that are folded, 6 and 6 bis, when we have named a name is the headline and not the bis. Is that what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.145.0	Yeah. So, if it seems to you, Mr Caula and the assembly of Members, we'll start with the Bureau and we'll clear up the votes. 3a and 4a goddess, right? Separately? (Pause.) Yes, yes, 3 bis for one side and 4 bis for the other. Yeah? (Pause.) Well, in any case, we'll follow what we have pointed out and if there's any problem at some point that you can't vote with another, let us know. All right. We vote, therefore, first on 3 bis– 3 bis. The vote begins. Point 3a was rejected by 39 votes to 93, with no abstentions. And we're voting now on the 4th. The vote begins. The 4th was rejected by 64 votes in favour, 67 against and no abstentions. And we're voting on point five now. The vote begins. Point 5_has been rejected by 56 votes to 72, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on points 10 and 13 - 10 and 13. The vote begins. Points 10 and 13 were rejected by 56 votes in favour, 76 against and no abstentions. And now we're voting on a block where there are points 3, 4, 6 and 14. I repeat, 3, 4, 6 and 14. The vote begins. These points have been rejected by 56 votes in favour, 76 against and no abstentions. And if we don't let ourselves be voted for separately, we're voting for the rest of the House now. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote on the rest of the motion begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 56 votes in favour, 76 against and no abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the social situation in Catalonia]] [[302-00165/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the social situation in Catalonia, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose it has the word of Congressman Raúl Moreno. [[Widow's remorse.]] One moment, Congressman, you're making a little more silence. [[Pause.]] When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.146.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I have to apologize to the councillor, he told me the other day, with this change of time that we have made, so it was impossible for the councillor to come and listen to this young man, and so I do. In fact, it is today announcing a minimum Catalan salary of 1,239 euros to say then, in the same information, that there are no skills to be able to do so. [[Some applause.]] And what I'm asking for today are things for which there are competitions and which are not fan and they're much more simple than asking for minimum wages when you know you can't do it. And these simple and very important things, because they have to do with the four elements that the Party of Socialists of Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Unions for Progress are of fundamental interest to us, which are childhood, the guarantee of returns, the situation of care for the great people and the professional situation of professionals working in the social sector. These are the four elements that we are concerned about and that we wanted to reflect on this motion that we are presenting today. At the first point, we asked what we had already said in the inquiry that it seemed to us to be of fundamental importance: Catalonia needs a social report that provides us with the necessary data not only in poor situations, but also in working situations, health, education, in order to be able to give us an idea of which policies we must be able to pull forward. Without this social report, the policies that can be devised will not correspond to the reality that happens in our country. And Catalonia is still without a social report that we're asking for in this young man. Moreover, the creation of two working groups, of experts, of entities, of organizations related to childhood so as to create policies that reduce the poverty situation of childhood in our country and also of the great people, that allows us to move forward as the policies of just over twenty years ago for which you have to see the care of the great people in our country and of the residential resources. We also ask that the evaluation of the Children's Covenant be present. All of us are very concerned about the Children's Pact, we made a pact with social entities in 2013 and today we have no return from how this pact went. And, therefore, we ask that you come to Parliament and that you talk and explain to us who are the conclusions of the meetings that have been made to complete this Children's Pact, as well as the compliment of the Children's Law, this 2010 that we all know and that does, therefore, this, nine years that is not even unfolded. Another important issue that you also have to see to reduce the poor in childhood, but also from the point of view of the return guarantee. Let us return to this Parliament's consideration of the equipping of social, economic, and other benefits which they have, which at these times delight the families of the people. We also want to be able to access, under the same conditions, single-maritime families. We are once again debating this Parliament to see what its opinion is, but we now, on various occasions, believe that, in order to help solve the bretxa that can be produced between those who have the most and those who have the least, it is important that single-maritime families, who always appear in all these cases as one of the family nuclei that have the most problems with their risk of exclusion and with regard to their admissions, can have and access to these benefits. We also want, from the point of view of the conditions of protection to childhood, a protocol to prevent situations of violence and hostile situations for all workers and workers of childhood in our country, from the system of protection to childhood. We want the government to instigate and accompany the businesses you give to children because their workers can be safe at the time of their work. We give, moreover, to the government six months to reorder the map of the hundred and fifty different economic benefits that exist in our country, to straighten them up, to put them in order and to make them effective, to make people have fewer problems to access the benefits, to make them easier. This is a promise four years ago that we're still waiting for, and for these we do have competitions. And finally, to set aside an advanced tele-assistance pilot project, a new care model that will enable us, as we said before, to cope with what will be the residential response that from Catalonia we will have to give to the great people of our country a few more years from now. To thank, in any case, the contributions that Catalonia has made in Comú Pode, Ciutadans and Juntes per Catalunya, the Group Republicà, some of which have been able to make, of others we have been able to accept, with this intention to try to bring together most of the sensitivities in this young man. And so these items will refer to the groups, because I think that's the way it should be, and then we'll try to close this discussion again. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.147.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, and to defend the papers presented, has the word Mrs Najat Driuech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.148.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. Companies, companies, people who accompany us to the hemicicle today... Look, today I was beginning to appreciate the good predisposition of Companion Moreno at the time of having actually arrived at transactions of different items, more than anything because, really, the objective of everyone is that we can improve the welfare of our city, which is why, in principle, this young man went. But I see that the first reference you make, and it also obliges me to intervene, that you are not in favour of the citizens of this country being able to improve their standard of living. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? Well, that's what, somehow, we wanted to hear. We're sorry you're not in this situation, Mr. Moreno, we're sorry. Well, I said that, look, I think with this young man we've come to politics, and I thank him for the way he used his inquiry, which the counselor also did at his time. It's obvious that there are still social inequalities, and that's a reality. And my question is, why don't we turn these social inequalities into reptiles? We can only face it if we have a broad, generous and forward-looking look. But I think that in order to take this step we must be very honest with ourselves and ask ourselves the following question: could we do it in another way, with the same resources, if we are managing these resources? Saying that and focusing on the young man, I would like to advance that most of the points of the young man obviously that we will vote for them. Because we will always find ourselves to move forward and face together the main challenges we have in the social sphere, such as childhood, population aging and the return system. In the case of childhood, we need to talk about childhood with reference to the poor, but we also need to talk about childhood in its conjunction. And that's why we share that we need to regularly deploy Law 14/2010, the rights and opportunities of childhood and adolescence. And the government is actually doing it. It is also important to talk about the aging beyond the Law of Dependence. Miri, Mr. Moreno, take on your own contradictions. The money of the Law of Dependence..., it is you who do not complete it, because you in your inquiry said that the assemblies must assume reprehensible where not above the Generality, but you can remember – remember – that the bulk of the social policies that are managed from the assemblies are made with the money of the Generality ; and you say this to a person who has very good knowledge of this subject. And, second of all, if the Generality can't take on what costs it is because it has to cover some of the law's obligations that the same state doesn't fulfill. It may go further than this plantation and promote an active aging and that as many people as possible can do it at home. As the counselor tells us, we must bet on a zero-kilometer envelope, quality of life and efficiency of the system. For what it does to guaranteed citizenship income, miri, from this parliamentary group always – always – we like to remember that the unjustly undertaken councillor Dolors Bassa, in a context of right-wing detail, led the creation of a new right; it is, of course, guaranteed citizenship income. Now it's up to us to deploy it, as we are aware, but it's a responsibility that we all have. Still, it's moving forward and getting better. I would like to recall one thing: the law of guaranteed citizenship income or the right to guaranteed citizenship income, one of its objectives is that the people who need it..., need it and need it; but we also have to provide them because they can enter work and not need it, that every time we have fewer citizens and citizens who have the need to request this help. We want rights for everyone, we want better of the welfare of our citizens and we want all of them, and we want you to join us in this work as well. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.149.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Mrs Montserrat Macià's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.150.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, very late. I will, of course, begin by thanking the Socialists' Parliamentary Group and Deputy Raúl Moreno for her willingness to reach agreements, and also the rest of the parliamentary groups for their contributions, as they enrich the document. Indeed, this motion puts the emphasis on three axes: childhood and the professionals who hold it; income policies, and aging. In the background this young man stands as we fight against vulnerability, which society we want, which we are willing to justify. In short, it confronts us as we fight the poor in our country, which, as we often repeat – and you also said it at the inquiry – has a child's and a wife's face. Certainly, we need to know how to respond to these challenges and we need to know how to take on the new vulnerabilities through good diagnostics. Since our parliamentary group we have been working to achieve a fairer, more equitable and more predisposing society, because we want to transform our society into a more humanistic model. Without wanting to repeat the words of the previous Member of Parliament, let me point out that the Government is already working so as to have a social X-ray of Catalonia. With a better diagnosis – totally agree – we can design more effective policies. It is essential for the Government to incorporate all social actors and experts, together with the Observers for the Rights of the Child, because they are incardinating measures to reduce the child poverty, and at the same time, it is clear, fully agreed, that Parliament should be able to follow up on the debates of the technical committee that evaluates the comprehensive childcare plan. Therefore, at all these points we will vote in favour, the same way that we have increased the investment in childhood policies, to achieve 2.4 of the gross domestic product. But they're not honest, we can't compromise time limits for what they do to the Law 14/2010, nor can we give support to equate the services of the families named with the single-parent families, therefore, because their regulation pertains to different areas. And it is necessary for the Government to have a set of cross-cutting proposals to fight against the poor child, it is clear that yes, but we cannot compromise ourselves to extremely short terms. At these points, we will abstain. At the same time, for what it does to the working conditions of professionals, it is necessary to approach the profession, taking into account its transformative capacity. That is why it is necessary to pull the Prevention Protocol in front of situations of violence and hostility. We must ensure that it fits into the departure of conditions of public competitions in this protocol, bearing in mind that the assessment of psychosocial risks is the competence of each entity. After all, like the review of denials, guaranteed income and the issue of outsourcing, we cannot support it. And, lastly, the aging. Fortunately, we have a council of the great people who are involved, and we need to get the law of personal autonomy under way. We have to be responsible to our great people and to ourselves. But, of course – it is clear – I also want to say this, and I am also continuing a little the argument of the Member who preceded me: in the matter of personal empowerment and promotion, the funding by the State of the dependency care system is insufficient, quite simply insufficient, as much if it governs the PSOE as if it governs the PP. The State has never brought the 50_per_cent that comes close to it. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, they will convince me that if we want a fairer and fairer society, with less vulnerability, we can redistribute or, as we prefer, predispose. And to make it rich, then distribute it fairly, to ensure social cohesion and progress. You and other groups are complaining because the government can't always compromise with the terms, because it doesn't invest any more, but why don't you take it seriously to analyze the costs it has respect for the quality of life of the people of Catalonia who follow an autonomy? Because it has costs, and not exactly small ones. It is true that there are questions that need to be improved and optimized with more resources – we would have greater benefit – because more resources mean more social assumptions. For us, the national agenda and the social agenda are inextricable. We want an independent Catalonia, to have the tools we already generate as citizens, to respond much better to the needs of Catalans, because Catalonia's independence is the best way to build a fairer and fairer society, having its resources and being responsible for its management. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.151.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, the honourable Member Concepción Abellán has the words. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.152.0	Thank you, president, deputies and deputies. I cannot say thank you to the advisers for coming, because it is a pity that, speaking of the social situation that is currently living in Catalonia, there is no member of the Government. Well, to talk about the social situation in Catalonia we have to point to the diagnosis: one of the problems to be faced is the lack of a political agenda of the Government and to situate the fight against poverty and the increase of inequality. We suffer an increase in inequality that has impacted on the popular classes. Poverty affects many more people after a cycle of economic crisis and, above all, the policies that have been implemented, the disinvestment in the state of well-being and the precariousness of social and labour rights. And we are in this situation by political decisions, not because it is inevitable or casual. We talk about a social reality with indicators of poverty risk that place 21.3_percent of Catalans and Catalans living under material conditions that do not guarantee a dignified life. Job and wage insecurity leads many workers to poverty, despite having one or more employment contracts, which in some cases we should qualify as situations of labour exploitation. And this social diagnosis of the country, invisible to all possible smokescreens, becomes more inexplicable when we talk about childhood. Catalonia's childhood is the one that is paying for the government's incompetence, a government that has allowed and allows the application of guaranteed income to be extended over time, regardless of how the living conditions of the most vulnerable families deteriorate. Today's social policies leave us with this sad reality: one_of_each_four households with boys and girls in Catalonia is at risk of poverty, according to UNICEF; if they are also members of a single-maritime family, it rises to 40_per_cent. This figure is not admissible for any government, it is the figure of shame, and it is a figure that has increased 3.6 points during the mandate of Mr Torra and Mr Aragonès. We suffer from a government without a social agenda, a government that can already be grateful to the workers of social action for their involvement in the social emergency, for which the Government has allocated limited and insufficient resources. The motion goes into some of these issues, and welcome you back to this chamber. And I would like to thank Congressman Raúl Moreno for his willingness to accept our contributions. For example, we think that making expert commissions to promote measures is an already outdated phase, as we have been doing so for years. What is needed is to move on to action. With regard to the child protection system, we share the need for the Administration to take responsibility for its work with workers in the centres, whether in public management or outsourced, in the face of situations of occupational risk. It is important to review the model and start implementing changes. If we have come this far, it is not only because of an increase in the number of children under guardianship; it is also because of the lack of resources appropriate to the circumstances of each child and the lack of specialized equipment. It also collects the concern of social educators about their situation of interinity. For years, the opposition has not been called, and now the Generalitat can add another error of harmful consequences, since the accumulated experience and disarticulation of the work teams could be lost. We have talked a lot about guaranteed income and about outsourcing the management awarded to Deloitte. We hope that the advisor – even if he is not here – will explain the reasons for outsourcing, but in turn what we want is for outsourcing to be reversed and guaranteed income to be managed from the public service. That is why we ask you to correct our amendment. However, we will support measures on ageing, which is undoubtedly a challenge for the care system. We are not going to settle for a country where children have access to opportunities depending on where they were born or where the minimum conditions for a dignified life are not guaranteed for all. This is not the model of society we want, and we must continue to work to transform it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.153.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Naomi de la Calle has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.154.0	Good afternoon. Today the Socialist Party brings us to debate a motion on the social situation in Catalonia, a situation that, on the part of Citizens, we have been calling for years already an absolute social disprotection, due to the inaction of the various governments that have been paraded by the Generalitat. And a sample of this is the points that include it; for example, a law of personal autonomy is required. I remember that in my first inquiry I made to the Government, back in 2016, I already claimed it to the Government, but in fact I was not asking for anything new because it was something that was already being promised since the time of Councillor Cleries. And the years have passed and we continue in the same, with promises that never arrive and with a desperate and frustrated opposition, for what we are going to deceive ourselves. And, look, since I've been a Member since the end of 2015, I've lost track of the times my parliamentary group has questioned social policies, and it's funny that we're accused of talking only about the process, but it's the chance that it was Citizens who forced several full monographics to put on top of the real problems facing citizens, such as, for example, the childhood monograph, the monographic plenary on real Catalonia or the coexistence and prioritization of the social agenda. And if there is currently a specific policy committee for the elderly in this Parliament, it is because Citizens have proposed it and, thanks to the support of all parliamentary groups, it has become a reality. But, despite all this opposition effort, things are still the same because the government does not comply with what is approved in this Parliament. And so, we have the worst waiting lists in Spain and poverty increases in Catalonia with each passing year. And this forces the opposition to continue insisting, full after full, to see if the government stops generating frustration and starts generating well-being, huh? That's what we pay them for, not to make them look palmito in the roadblocks. And we are grateful for the inclusion of four of the eight amendments that we have made concerning childhood and guaranteed income, and I do not want to leave this faristol without telling Deputy Najat Driouech that I was with Deputy Moreno in the presentation of guaranteed income and I can assure her that the contribution of former Consellera Bassa, who is currently under arrest – yes – for embezzlement and sedition, was that of the permanent blocking of that presentation; that was the contribution of former Consellera Bassa from the hand of the current Consellera Homrani, who was the rapporteur. Referring to the motion again, I would like to thank Mr Moreno especially for the inclusion of our amendment so that the deployment of the children's law can be budgeted, because in those meetings that the Socialist Party has with Esquerra we do not know what they are talking about and we would like to know if you are asking Esquerra to budget social laws. Because in this motion they had forgotten to demand what really matters, which is the investment that needs to be made to realize the rights that social laws collect. We have asked you to include that budgetary commitment and we are grateful that you have accepted it, because you already know that on social issues we have many points in common and that we can reach agreements that are beneficial to citizens. Because we have to work for what unites us. Because Citizens are very clear about the strategy that nationalist movements have; a strategy that needs everything to go wrong, that needs society to be angry, because only one angry society can buy their populist discourse that things are very bad because of another. But the truth is that the Generalitat has many competencies, manages a budget of more than 30,000_million_of_euros per year and can do many things for the benefit of the citizenry, and if it does not do them it is because if people notice improvement will not give him valid his speech that in order to solve things we have to leave Spain ; because their priority is not the people, but to create the social climate conducive for the people to join the political project that they advocate, passing over the needs of the citizens who are worst passing them and who most need the protection of the state of well-being. And that's a tremendous irresponsibility. And any European who knows the history of the twentieth century is able to recognize the strategy that the nationalist parties are carrying out in Catalonia, using the suffering of hundreds of thousands of Catalans – that they themselves..., that suffering feed it themselves with their inaction – to build a victimistic narrative at the service of political objectives. And some of us have noticed it many years ago, and we've been reporting it ever since. And we really want, for the good of all Catalans, that the Socialist Party assumes that these kinds of movements are toxic to democracy and that they are incompatible with a project of progress that builds a future of prosperity, coexistence and well-being. Good afternoon, everyone. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.155.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, and to fix its position, has the word of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.156.0	So thank you very much, President. Since then, to advance that we will vote favorably on all and each of the points or points of the initial motion as well as the incorporated items. That doesn't mean we want to make some considerations. The first: obviously, we are absolutely in favour of what it is about that the first quarter of 2020 we can have this first social report of Catalonia. Necessary. Actually, we'd have to ask ourselves why we don't have him yet. Regarding the point that concrete – the second – about childhood, we appreciate the point, we appreciate the motion, but practically what is in its content is the committee of experts, rule of law, proposals that the government should have made to them today. We appreciate it, but we also want to make it clear that what we find is an inaction on the part of the government in certain matters. And respect the working conditions of workers and workers in the field of childhood, we are in favour of the prevention protocol and the value of working risks, but we want to insist on what we always explain. This, making it compatible, happens because we have a public cent_per_cent management service, and not only for a model issue – which for us is determinant – but because today what is demonstrated in indirect management is that this is not a woman. We also want to aggravate respect for the guaranteed income point(s) of the city, and we want to highlight one, on the 13th, that says: « Motius d'externalizzazione de la gestion de la guaranteed income of the city announced in April 2019. And we want to put it in relation to an assertion in the form of a question made by the economic vice president, Mr Pere Aragonès, in this parliamentary office on 27 November, we were asking: "Tell'muna_sola privatize that this government has done. So, mirin, the answer would seem to be that we're going to vote on it today. Someone will still come out saying that this is not a privatization but an outsourcing and it will be so quiet or so quiet, but you already have the first of many answers that we can give you. Also for what makes aging, insist, as we did at the first point, on the idea that the committee of experts, the normal development is very good, but that's what the government should be doing in its obligations. I'm done. Central idea. For us all this is necessary, we will vote for everything in favour, but if we do not have elements to overcome the infra-financing that has already taken place and to advance in a 100_per_cent model of public management, it is difficult to achieve the objectives that they pose.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.157.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.158.0	Thank you, President. Also to position us in relation to this young man, that we will give practical support to all of her except a point that I will mention later, but I do believe that there is a common denominator, that it is the one that moves us all and that it is that of resources, that of finance and that of the availability of resources to be able to make social policies. And, in this sense, we have to say: man, the data we have and that they take from the joint of communities, so, they're not falsifying, are they? The evolution of spending on social policies in all Spanish communities tells us that what in the last two years has recovered less investment in social policies is precisely Catalonia. I, mirin, and concretely it's embossed: the difference in assumptions between 2009 and 2018 is less than 4,124_million euros in the pool of social policies. Well, this is the key, this is the foundational element. And that's not that resources don't come in, but that's that the government doesn't prioritize spending on social policies; it prioritizes other things, but it doesn't spend it on social policies. Therefore, this I believe is the common denominator of all the points to which we will support. Except for one, which has been repeatedly cited by different groups, isn't it? , which is precisely the 13th, which says two things; not just one. If you just say ‘present in your Parliament the reasons for the externalisation of the management of the guaranteed income of citizens, we would like to support it. But you don't say that; you say: "present the motions and, then, "revert outsourcing. Listen, so, if they've decided to reverse outsourcing, they don't have to present the motius; that reverses it and it's over. But if you want to know the reasons – which seems very reasonable to me – to be able to assess whether this decision is well-founded or not, don't tell me again to reverse this decision. Therefore, we will vote against this item, for which we ask for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.159.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, to pronounce on the papers presented, has the word of new deputy Moreno. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.160.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Najat, you know me and therefore come here to say that I have made an intervention so that I am not in favour of the citizens improving their living conditions, you know that it is not true. What I'm not in favour of is that the government promised what it can't do; that, besides, I promised it and, then, in the same tweet, say that you don't have the skills to do it. Because I could come here and say, "I want a minimum wage of three thousand euros for all Catalans and Catalans. And what I can't do is say, "But I don't have the skills to do it. No, no. It's that our responsibility as politicians makes it possible for agreements that we reach with the citizenry. So what I don't want is for you to keep fooling people by saying that there is a reality that will never come, that will never exist. You're lying, you can't do it. And what I am preaching to you, please, is that you put the emphasis on what you do have competence in. Because having a children's law for years without deployment is something you should think about, because if you really have an interest in reducing the child's poverty or the situation of childhood in our country for years is enough time to be able to do so. Dependence. Effectively. Catalonia cannot continue to pay eight_of_each_euros depending on it. That is why the general assumptions of the State in carrying 500_million euros in dependency issues, to reduce the margin that there was from the point of view of state financing; those assumptions that you voted against, certainly. Therefore, it is clear that there must be assumptions on the part of the Government of Catalonia, but also on the part of the Government of the State, and I hope that this co-responsibility, because you cannot complain about the state's infra-financing while, for another band, you do not support the general assumptions of the State. And for what he does to outsourcing. Miri, we've already asked for Mr. Vidal's appearance at the committee. The groups that raise the government denied it. We could not know why he wanted to outsource the management of a public service, surely the most important to fight against inequality. A government that outsources...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.161.0	Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.162.0	...the management of a public service, I think it is very illustrative of what he considers to be protection in this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.163.0	Congressman, thank you. We called for a vote. Yes, Mrs. Driuech, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.164.0	For the Member's contradictions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.165.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.166.0	Miri, Congresswoman of the Street, if Consul Dolors Bassa wanted to stifle the law, and the rapporteur, who is today the consul, wanted you not to go out the law, how did it end up approving? Please, I didn't bring them to Councillor Dolors Bassa. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.167.0	Mr. Rodriguez has asked for a separate vote from point 13–13. I don't know if there's any more petition... [[Naomi from Sifré Street asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. De la Calle?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.168.0	Allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.169.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.170.0	Deputy Najat, the guaranteed income in the speech was blocked, the promoter commission had to put on hunger strike – I remind you – for it to be unlocked and if in the end it was brought to Full was because the opposition, from the CUP to the PP, we agreed to be able to move forward, despite the blockade of Junts pel Si, formed by his party and by the current Junts per Catalunya. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.171.0	Is there a separate motion for a vote more? [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Caula?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.172.0	We would call point 10 bis and point 13, which is that they could vote together, and point 3, 4, 6 and 14. They understand that it's a young man who many points have the share of 6, for example, and 6 bis, when we asked him for a point, is that it's done separately and it's different.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.173.0	So, when they ask for the 6, it's not the 6 bis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.174.0	Exactly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.175.0	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.176.0	The same would happen, I think, with the 10.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.177.0	On the 10th. Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.178.0	And the 10 bis, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.179.0	All right. [[Eduard Pujol and Bonell ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Pujol?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.180.0	[[The speaker begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ...separate vote for 9b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.181.0	No, I don't. All right. All right, any more? [[Pause.]] Don't you? We vote, therefore, first on point 13 of the motion – point number 13. The vote begins. Point 13_has been rejected by 28 votes to 68, with 35 abstentions. We now vote on the 10a – 10a point. The vote begins. Point 10a was approved by 67 votes to 64, with no abstentions. We now vote points 3, 4, 6, without the 6a, and 14 - 3, 4, 6, without the 6a, and 14. The vote begins. These points were approved by 66 votes in favour, against and 64 abstentions. And we're voting now on the 9th ter. The vote begins. Point 9b was approved by 59 votes to one, with 71 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved; that is to say, 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the limitation of digital rights]] [[302-00171/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into the limitation of digital rights presented by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. To expose her, Mrs Gemma Geis has the word. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.182.0	Well, good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Today we are here because Junts for Catalonia has presented a... Now I see that Secretary General Xavier Gatius upstairs; thanks also for accompanying us. Today we present a motion by Juntes for Catalonia to affirm, from this Parliament, from the Parliament of Catalonia, the e-digital rights of citizens, civil and political rights, which are also now digital rights: the secrecy of communications, freedom of expression... constitutional rights that are violated after the adoption of the digital decree. I also say this for all those parliamentary groups that defend the Constitution. So if they want to defend the Constitution, they should vote in favour of this motion. A decree expressing the digital state model of President Pedro Sánchez, approved through a permanent congress, with a government in office, without any institutional loyalty to the Government of the Government of Catalonia, since it had not been debated at the head of the bilateral or multilateral commission. This, therefore, reflects the digital country model approved by the PP, the PSOE, for Citizens, with the forbearance of Podemos. And today we reaffirm ourselves, from the Parliament of Catalonia, in our model, our model of digital society, of rights, of freedoms, of guarantee. And this Parliament has already voted with the Catalan Charter of Digital Rights and Responsibilities. This Catalan letter was approved with the votes of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, the CUP, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Group. And I'm saying that this young man is trying to reassure us in the defense of these rights because this model of Pedro Sánchez's digital decree is opposed to our card, because our card is modernity, it's progress, it's guarantees, innovation and freedom. A state of digital exception, 155 digital, approved for the back door. It's a measure of refocusing. When I see that it's about the State, then, the digital decree that it does is to violate the statutory competences in the field of electronic administration and digital competences that the current State of Autonomy has established. And even more so, this digital decree does not only violate the Spanish Constitution, but also violates international law, as different entities have defended. Digital decree is a digital LOAPA. And, therefore, from here, therefore, all those who defend the Statute of Autonomy would also be well advised to defend the approval of this young man. Because this young man puts Spain at the same level – as we have already seen in other cases like justice with the reports of the Council of Europe – on the rise of Xina or Turkey in relation to its digital state model, outside the Western standards. And let's not call it independence groups; they say it's organizations like Xnet, the Platform in Defense of Freedom of Information, the Association of Internet Users, liberals like Juan Ramón Rallo. So, the violation of these rights and the paradigm shift respects the digital society... I think it's been confirmed from a lot of points of view. And this decree of Pedro Sánchez which he has made... has advanced for the right... in the violation of fundamental rights, with the approval of this decree. And this decree affects the digital economy and the productive economy. And it's fixed, plus, in this decree there's one aspect... that this weekend's head was going over Snowden's story. Edward Snowden went public like the CIA was investigating and spying on the citizens without a court order. Well, that's exactly what this decree sets out: to be able to intercept communications without a court order. Edward Snowden's case fell and struck the different presidents of the United States. Therefore, look at the gravity of what we are debating here. And finally also say..., from Catalonia to Comú Pueblo, that he will vote favorably on this decree law, the deputy Cid, and we..., we recognize the value, therefore, that from Catalonia to Comú Pueblo, we can vote for the four points of this motion without a thought. And we ask them that if you give the Parliament of Catalonia we reaffirm ourselves in the defense of this digital society with rights and guarantees, therefore, they also help us to the Congress – where there is Podemos, which has abstained – that this force, right? , and this commitment of Catalonia in Comú may also be seen in the Congress. Because we have the favorable vote of the CUP, of Juntes per Catalunya, of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo and of the Group Republicà in order to have all the judicial actions instituted so that this decree, therefore, ceased to have effect and moreover we approve all the immediate derogation. Therefore, the thanks to the four parliamentary forces that they are doing today, from the Parliament of Catalonia, a reaffirmation in the rights and guarantees and freedoms, at the expense of economic progress and democracy and freedom on the Internet and in this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.183.0	Thank you, Mrs. Geis. Then, as long as no papers have been submitted, he has the word to fix the position, first of all, of the Deputy Dimas Gragera, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.184.0	Thank you, Vice President. MPs, MPs, Mrs Geis... – there is no one from the government to greet – good afternoon to everyone, greetings – tell me. Today we are faced with a more separatist victimism session, which aims to make us believe that a digital rights letter announced in declarative form with a few minorities has the same validity as a decree approved by a rule of law. They bring us a motion that's a mark on the house, it's the special dish on the house, isn't it? : you don't like a law, you don't like a sentence, and you come here to condemn it in the form of a motion. In this case it concerns Decree 14/2019, a decree that seeks to legislate against violations in the field of digital security, interception of communications, threats in cybersecurity itself or in reference to any digital threat, including recruitment. It is a decree of national security, a decree that does not mention them at any time, does not mention either Catalonia or the Administration of the Generalitat, but that you are alluded to. And the truth is that I am not surprised that you are alluding to each other, because, as we say here repeatedly, the digital coup in gestation that you are preparing is indeed a threat to national security. Only violators fear that the law will be strengthened. And only those who threaten cybersecurity can fear this decree. And you know why they're afraid of him? Because you see your great project of this legislature threatened: the digital republic, that digital republic that is both a scam and a great threat; a scam for all those who said: "We have the republic to play; and now you say to them: "You will have to conform to a republic in the cloud, you. But, although the republic – the republic project – is digital, the threats are real, because we have seen what you have done with our personal data, we have seen how you design projects to pursue the ideological trail of Catalans, we have seen the money you waste and embezzle in bids to achieve this goal. Look, we are quite clear on this matter: we will be at the side of the nation's government and in front of you. But we are going to be on the side of the nation's government to really act; we are going to be on the side of the nation's government to not only make electoral decrees and we are going to pursue these practices; we are going to be on the side of the nation's government not so that the PSC will vote here in this Parliament on the Cybersecurity Act, which gives cover to the Catalan Cybersecurity Coupist Agency, which is an agency that could have been involved, as we have said on hundreds of occasions, with those CDRs accused of terrorism. Look, I think that instead of counting nations, what we have to do is sit down a common front and implement the measures that Citizens have been asking for for a long time. First, you have to close this Cybersecurity Agency, you have to audit the CTTI, you have to invest all these millionaire digital bids and clarify what has happened with the theft of our personal data. Beyond this decree, there are sufficient mechanisms and measures in the Constitution to enable us to act. And I wanted to conclude by highlighting something that has been touching to me, and it is to see that in the text of your motion you speak of unconstitutionality, of violation of fundamental rights and, eye to eye, of administrative loyalty! You! You who have unconstitutionality in DNA, who have in their government people who have been convicted of sedition, will come to us to talk about administrative loyalty. I think that's what we needed to see. [[Greetings.]] Look, loyalty – loyalty – is ours, loyalty is ours with the Government of the nation, because, although we have differences, in all matters of state and in matters that are a threat to the State, we will be on the side of the Government of the nation, as we have said. Look, I'm going to take advantage of this scarce minute that I have left to address myself to the Socialist Party. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I ask you to reflect... to address me once again to the Socialist Party. I ask you to reflect. Look, your government is issuing a decree to protect digital rights and your partner, your main interlocutor, is Squerra Republicana, with people in the negotiations that are being investigated – with people in the negotiations that are being investigated – for allegedly stealing our personal data. And none of your government partners will support this decree that defends national security. Look, we're still... not even your vice president, Pablo Iglesias. We are still on December 12, I think we are in time to stop a historical error, because you cannot support the governability of the nation, as we have seen in this decree, with whom you constantly threaten it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.185.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of MP Pol Gibert, the PSC Group and Forward Units.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.186.0	Thank you, Vice President. So as it has been said, but I do not want to stop repeating it, we are ahead of the traditional digital policy autobombing motion that is in place at each ple. We have a space sponsored by digital politics, which is the moment of the motion and the inquiry that is the same government between them. But today we have a novelty, which is that we are taking a third time to vote a point that I voted for, as I said, twice more, which is the Catalan Charter of Digital Rights, with which I don't know if the government doesn't trust the votes, wants to exercise its right democratically many times or I don't know what's going on, or I don't want it to come out and take it more times to this House, right? After an intervention to the inquiry that left certain worrying moments, an inquiry to the councilman Puigneró – who is not here today – acknowledged that they wanted to advance in the digital republic, a little more. And that was a country project, the whole country agreed with this digital republic project. He said that this decree that we are debating today wanted to stop innovation, he said that this decree – and today Mrs Geis also repeated it – would stop economic activity. And we haven't seen any tech entrepreneurs these weeks. [[Widow's remorse.]] You've brought up some kind of information about this... information, obviously, many of them false, haven't you? And I ask you: is this decree a new capacity of the State Government to intervene in exceptional cases? No, no, Does this decree involve a new instrument to intervene in the network? Neither do you. Will this decree give the government the capacity to intervene in websites, social networks, whatsapps? Neither do you. Does this decree entail new obligations for operators? No, no, This decree supposes the prohibition of innovative technologies such as the blockchain, of which the Councillor Puignero is very fan? Neither do you. Now, do you know what this decree does? Strengthen guarantees for the protection of citizens' personal data, especially those that keep administrations like Catalan, for example. And it does so by establishing obligations that these data are in the territories of the European Union, where its protection is guaranteed. And in cases of especially high protection data, which can only be on servers of the Spanish State. Is that what makes you nervous? Should we have data from citizens in the European Union or the State? Or does that mean that they were now kept outside the European territory? Do we have them? And why did they keep them outside the European territory? This is the key question that is interesting to know your answer. Why did a government that had all the Catalans around the world, in the name of democracy, get so nervous right now? If I was an advisor to a government that spends the day traveling around the world looking for a place to settle and find collaborations – collaborations – in places that are always outside the abyss of justice, I would also be concerned. The people who wanted to appoint judges told their Catalan republic now come to give us lessons about the separation of powers. The people who put Catalan data into danger are now talking about digital rights. And that's why the government of the state has passed a decree to ensure the protection of some data that their hands are not sure. While you have our data at your hands, we will not be reassured; while you are determined to pull forward your digital republic, our vote will be no.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.187.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of Deputy David Cid, of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú We can.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.188.0	Well, we're clear on which position is in accordance with this decree. And I think he's fine too – I've said it several times –, many times we circumscribe the debate on digital policies around catal, and I think that if this decree violates public rights and freedoms, theoretically by reason of security, it's not just a Catalan issue, because there are many organizations at the state level, there are many entities at the state level that defend digital rights and freedoms that also criticize this decree. And, therefore, it is not just or would only be circumscribed to the situation at the Catalan level. And then, it's also a decree that we understand retailing specific skills of the autonomous communities. In fact, for example, it has also been mentioned previously with electronic identification. Yes, it is true that we, for example, have some criticisms that we do not share, and, in fact, there is also a reference now, such as the fact that it prevents moving administrative or public data servers to digital paradises. We don't agree on this. We believe that, obviously, there must have been physical freedom to choose..., there must have been freedom to choose physically where the server is located, but this, moreover, in the case of personal and public data, must be stored at places where physical and legal protection is kept, and that this cannot be done, for example, in digital paradises, right? If there is a reference before us, too, at the level of the Permanent Assembly of the Congress we will abstain, and our position of abstention, even though we do not, of course, share the text of the decree – it was explained in the Congress and I have also made reference now – was basically because we found ourselves before a dichotomy: or that the decree continued its own procedure or that we achieved, in this case, the compromise that will have a draft law that, in the end, would have to achieve three things. The first is to return to immediate judicial review in the event of administrative decisions on suspension of a service or a server. We believe that this is fundamental and is a compromise, in this case, which was also expressed by the Socialist Party and expressed by the Ministry. Therefore, we understand that this would be of fundamental importance that we are included in the bill. The other is that we should basically try that we can't make decisions that involve a flap of public freedoms or phonental rights. That, obviously, we believe that just as the decree is, certainly already in force, so it also happens. And the other is that we need intervention from elements that are of self-sustaining competence, so that the autonomous communities have, in this case, clearly something to say, and not as it stands now, that basically the decision remains centralized on the part of the State. And that's what motivated our abstention, and that's also what motivates our vote, in this case, you say to reaffirm us in a position that is ours, that is the starting position, that is that we do not share as it was the decree, that obviously cuts across rights and freedoms, not just from the Catalans, but from the city and citizen communities of the State, right? I do want to make a final reflection in this sense, also especially, therefore, how it would replace, in this case, the Junts for Catalonia and suppose that also, obviously, from the Republican Left, obviously the policy is to situate horizons and it is to situate objectives that, obviously, are all legitimate and that, well, each one defends its own; you defend yours and we defend our own. But politics is also the correlation of forces. And so I also invite, in this case, not only to make political statements, right? , which are political, but do not have a real influence on what will happen or cease to happen in the Congress of Deputies, and to use what at these times is a window of opportunity. We know what's in the other gang, and what's in the other gang is pretty clear, right? In this case, the deputy of Ciutadans expressed it, and because today we do not have Vox in this chamber, but on the other side there is another possible majority that can condition Spanish politics in many camps: in the social camp, in the environmental camp and also in the digital freedom camp. So, I invite you to: there are thirty-five Members of the United States We can make it very clear – that this decree is to be amended, and there is a draft law; we can also use its strength in the Congress of Deputies, subject to majorities. This is politics and you have a reality that depends on what you do to the Congress of Deputies we can continue to approve, in this case, political statements here – and we all agree – we can tell each other that, obviously, what happens to the rest of the State is unfair. And the other is to walk us – sometimes yes, too – so, these legitimate goals that we have to leave them for more than half a term, but ultimately also to improve the lives of citizens. And that's where we put them. There is a possible new majority in the Congress, let's use it and what we agree on, so, in this case, let's change to what is possible. And I think changing this decree is possible if we use this majority in Congress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.189.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of the deputy Nàtalia Sánchez of the Subgroup... – sorry –, of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.190.0	Good afternoon. Well, as you know and as we have already announced in its moment, we denounce and reject the decree, which is one of the important parts of the motion presented by Juntes for Catalonia, not only for its content; we read it as a digital biting law, a continuation of the repressive actions of the Spanish State against dissent, as in different historical moments have already been the Corcuera law, the biting law or the Sinde law. From certain sectors this law has come, this royal decree as an act against the digital republic, but the fact is that it has gone much further than this; it is a violation of the right of assembly and individuals, of the right of assembly and of persons on the part of the Spanish State, in this case, of freedom of expression and right of access to information. And it puts free Internet access to hundreds of thousands of people in danger. And for that, the truth, when I heard them, especially the Members of the PSC and of Ciutadans, I was deeply surprised by the sneezing attitude in relation to this issue. Because the depth of what this decree is talking about is really worrying, and it's like having a deep, not so superficial debate with the topics that we're used to. The Royal Decree states that "the Government may agree to the assumption by the General Administration of the State of direct management or the intervention of the networks and electronic communications services in certain exceptional assumptions that may affect public order, security and national security. The doctrine of rock with all the rules. In practice, the government of Pedro Sánchez wants to impose a state of exception. And when I thought of this logic and especially its attitude or its way of speaking about this decree, I thought of the statement that the PAH made just after knowing the feeling, in which they said: "If voting is seditious, disobeying is seditious, being seditious every morning that we find ourselves in a portal preventing a denunciation. And he ended up saying: "They come to everyone and it's not time to profile themselves. This royal decree raises a fundamental question about rights and freedoms, about the right and freedom to freely access the Internet in this case. The doctrine of rock. We regret that especially United We can, in its moment, believe this abstention, already explained, justified from its perspective of its political objectives. And that, besides, in these agreements we don't have a bit of aspiration, like, for example, repealing the law bite or other. What we can do is do politics; not Realpolitik, which is what I understand they do to the Spanish State, and policy of declarations, which is what they do here, right? All right, we don't agree, we believe that the Catalonian Parliament deserves to make a real policy that has real consequences for people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.191.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of Congresswoman Esperanza García, of the PP Subgroup.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.192.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, counselors... well, this young man I think what he does is barricade, practically the same part, huh? , propaganda and victimism. And that's it. What exactly are we talking about? You read the motion and even all the representatives of the groups that have presented it, so they speak of "anyone who believes in democracy, any even constitutionalist, should vote in favour of this resolution. And more far from reality – more far from reality – because what the government is talking about and what it seems or pretends to be concerned about is supposed to be the security of Catalan personal data, vaguely, from security to contract, and the reality is that this government was the one who stole Catalan personal data to organize an illegal U of October reference. It is this same government – the same government – that left five figures of the 5_million Catalans' DNIs that went around all over the country, and totally personal and discovered data. It is this government that has increased the data, the personal security of the citizens of Catalonia. And so, Spain, what it does, the Government of Spain, is to enact a decree, precisely, to give security. To give security not only to personal data, but also to identified documents. And do so with contractual rights, too. And reinforcing this security, what you say is: "It's not just a set of standards, but I'm working on national and European rules. And does it turn out – it turns out – that applying European law now is to become an authoritarian state? Because for so much that you repeat in this motion that Spain is not a full democracy and assembles in Turkey, in Xina or Iran, it does not really have any credibility; Spain is a full democracy, one of the twenty full democracies that there is in the world, recognized by Democracy Index. And this is a real, credible and proven fact, and not his propaganda apparatus manifesting things like this young man's. Look, he knows that one of the problems they have is that they have a cognitive dissonance: Spanish is a full democracy. That's it. And the decrees that a government dictates to protect the rights of the citizenry what they do is reinforce this democracy. To you, making a similar castler, the pinya dropped them. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.193.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, you have the word... [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet. Finally, has the word the deputy Aurora Carbonell, of the Parliamentary Group Republicà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.194.0	Thank you, President. Well, as has already been said, the Spanish government – the Socialist Party – in operation and in an election campaign period approved, on October 31, a law that frontally limits basic digital rights. And, obviously, it's a clear move from the law to digital space. With this decree, the Spanish government remains... or so, what it can do is, as someone said and denied it, but what it can... it enables it to secure social rights, to secure web pages without any court order or prior hearing. More than that, however, it went much further, because it can also act on elements necessary to accompany the installation or installation of these telecommunications servers, opening the door to the intervention of infrastructures that can host types of electronic communications. And, in addition, it threatens to take over the management of electronic telecommunications plataforms from those operators who do not cooperate with the requests of the State. And the excuse for this decree... before the deputy of Ciutadans said he didn't refer to Catalonia. So well, literally you say that this is fa« for the events..., for the recent and serious events that have occurred in part of the Spanish territory. Home, do not say « Catalunya, but lie down enough. I said, too, "as an immediate response to prevent such events from happening again. So don't say "Catalonia," that's right, but I certainly don't say it because they didn't dare say it so boldly. Or so, as the Spanish government has been threatened by a specific population and territory, it makes a decree to back it up, without any consent, to apply to all of Spain and at any time. It has been repeated, and it is true, that this is an action that is very dangerously close to countries like China or Turkey, that have been repeatedly criticized for their anti-democratic policies, also in the digital sphere, but more fleeing from European standards, which are absolutely contrary, and which fight precisely for the defence of the phonenal rights of the citizenry, also in the digital sphere. Just making a huge difference, which has been talked about here, too, with the Catalan Charter of Rights and Digital Responsibility; a document that was precisely made in a very consensual way; a huge group of experts participated, entities, associations, that is, a total consensus. This decree of law, in change, is by the back door, hidden, with four days, without anyone knowing it. And another huge difference with the digital card? The Catalan digital card is a document, precisely, that extends human rights; the rights that we have and that have cost us so much to hold to our society are transferred to the digital realm. And, in contrast, this decree is all the contrary: repress, repress free expression in the digital world, censorship, boxing. That is to say, two absolutely different ways of hearing the defense of rights and freedoms. Let me also say, as this decree is very similar to the law bites, as we said, that the Socialist Party still today on its web page has a lot of phrases criticizing the law bites 2015, right? , saying that it is time to "remove us from this gloom that shames us, "the aim is to punish. Well, today, it's not just this law that's gone, it's just that there's not one more like it, and there's one more like it, and now we're adding this digital version. To end just say that on these days there has been much talk of the ecological transition, the energy transition, as a great challenge of society. Well, digital transition and technology are also a great challenge for our society. And those who aren't on the side, those who stay out, so they will kick, they will suffer hard consequences, they will stay on the sidelines, and the citizens will suffer a social and digital exclusion and a violation of their rights. So: we can't put doors to the camp, we can't put up with the peaceful and legitimate protest we want to express, and neither will the freedom of summons and freedom of expression be stopped in the digital world. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.195.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We shall then proceed to the vote. We called for a vote. Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] All right. We'll wait a few seconds for the deputies to come in. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-12-4502.196.0	Well, we'll move on to the vote on the second seat. No separate vote was requested. I understand there is no petition in this sense. Don't you? [[Pause.]] So let's go vote on the joint motion. The vote begins. This motion was approved by 74 votes to 56, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] There are no more points to the order of the day, the session rises. Thank you.
