ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the system of protection of childhood and adolescence]] [[302-0109/12]] Let us resume the session with the new item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the system for the protection of children and adolescents, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose it has the word of Congressman Raúl Moreno. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.2.0	Good morning, President; good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to this prime-time parliamentary hour; thank you for your attendance at this first hour. Well, the reason we're here today is to see, so, with the system of colliding and protecting childhood and adolescence in Catalonia – Mr. Counsellor, good morning. The first of the points – and it was the purpose of this motion – was to be able to establish a definite agreement, good, as well as at least to enter into an agreement between the Government of Catalonia and the assemblies at the time of setting up centres for the gathering of the emergence of minors in the cities. It is a complicated issue, I told the question that I had with the councillor fifteen days ago, but I think that at these times we have the opportunity to establish these agreements that allow us to eliminate some episodes, probably made for lack of information, lack of transparency or for the little communication that at these times many of the mayors are complaining about, at the time that the Directorate-General for Childhood and Adolescents decides to set up a centre for their cities. Therefore, the first and most important point, from our point of view, is to establish these agreements; the joints and the Generality will have to agree to the installation of the assembly centres to each of the cities. We are also talking about the absolutely necessary landing protocol, which must allow us to know when they will come, how they will come, what is the type of center, who are the types of minors, and how we can do the co-responsibility between social entities, public administrations, and also the conjunction of citizenship, in order to try not to have episodes that may pose in danger or, as a minimum, to question the need for the coexistence of our cities and towns. For another band, those centers that can open have an activity license. That the urgency in some cases may cause some administrative problems, but we consider it very important that they are in order. Make payments between social entities, of these 46_million euros that social entities complain that they have not been paid by the Government of Catalonia. So what we're asking is not just pay, it would be fine, but set up a schedule of payments that you certainly give in your own months to social entities, so that you can start a task with a certain order and with a forecast of entries that doesn't put your accounts at risk. Cal planning, and we also say it in this young man, that we plan our centers: where they will be, where they will be, the places they will have, the type of minors, and planning... And, it's true, in a situation where you can't predict exactly the number of minor strangers not accompanied that will come, it has its difficulties. But what we can't know is..., or what we can't live with is the unknown of where we're going to set up a center, where we're going to find ourselves, how many places we need... Because what we know is that we're going to have an unimportant arrival of minors and, as a minimum, a certain schedule that allows the rest of the administration to have this absolutely necessary planning. We ask for more security at youth centres, and also for professionals. We've had a few episodes that maybe we should have gotten away with. We can guarantee a better level of professional working conditions, which at this time are in a very tense situation, and also in a rather precarious work situation. And from these points, too, when we talk about the whole protection system, we insert some other petitions that they have to do with the system in general, such as psychological and psychiatric attention to those minors who come to Catalonia; to extend the agreement with the Council of the Catalan Advocate so that the Mosos can guarantee and offer the right to be accompanied by letters, so long as that is possible..., now it is offered, but it can be guaranteed with the presence of lawyers for those minors, and also other issues that are col·lateral. The Directorate of Child and Adolescent Care lived a few years ago, so, an episode in which its director general, Mr. Ricard Calvo..., is now being investigated for possible awards to companies where he had worked, and also for issues of incompatibility, and we want, as announced by the Government, that he is present as a particular accusation in this court. Therefore, she is a broad-based young woman, who has even more rejected the contributions of almost all the political groups of this chamber, and therefore, during the turn of the reply, of the positioning of the items, so I will position myself and speak of these new contributions which, without doubt, enrich this young man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.4.0	Good morning. A little more than a year ago that we have this government, yesterday there was an appearance of the president making balance of this year, and from the beginning of Catalonia in Comú We can warn that this issue, that of young migrants without family support, is a country issue, it is a theme that we regret that we have not been working with much anticipation; that it is not a new phenomenon nor was it unpredictable that the numbers of young migrants are increasing, and, in turn, we have found ourselves, at the gates of the estuary of the past year, with an absolute anticipation of resources to attend to it and with a crisis that asked that summer, that the truth is that we would not have to repeat in this country. We denounced it, we called for solutions, especially the general discoordination between government departments and with the rest of the administration, especially with local administrations. And we complained, and we also proposed solutions because of the lack of forecasting of what to do when they divide years and come out of the protection system and let them go, because they spread out alone, among others with the law that is being debated in this plenary, of one reading, by one reading. All applications require political will, planning and management skills, and resources as well. We have been complaining for a variety of times: to the plenary, in committee, by letter to President Torra, personally to the councillor, and also in the few negotiations that may have taken place in presuppositions. We have to recognize that they have changed things respect a year ago, they have changed. But there's still a lot to do, there's still a lot to improve, above all resources that could be activated so as not to continue to generate in the professions and entities of the sector the weight of a situation that overflows them and that is surpassing them; professionals and you serve a system of protection to the childhood that was already very touched before the numbers of young people who arrive migrated without family support are increased. We will approve this motion of the Socialist Group and Units to advance, all its points, the ones that were there and the ones that have joined it; among others, some that we have introduced via papers, like now the figure of the professional advisor to facilitate, right? , this follow-up since they arrive, these young people, and until they no longer need this follow-up. The proactivity, too, to accelerate the papers by the same Catalan Administration. The need for more educators and educators with sufficient support to facilitate the work that is done in the centres. Or that in a week there is free the planned and planned strategy, the country strategy of attention to these young people. And let's give it a week, which is extraordinary to put in a motion a term of a week, because this was approved in a February motion, defended by my parliamentary group, in which the term was one_month. Four have not passed, and we do not have this timetable or detailed budgetary endowment of the country strategy to accommodate these young people. So, yes, we claim a week and we'll be demanding again in this sense. And we would not be able to denounce in this intervention the double morality and double speech of the Socialist Group. Here they wear the complaint of their mayor of Rubí of discoordination with the local world on behalf of the Generality, which we all denounce, but while – do not say it during the campaign: while – at present, these last days, the mayor continues to accompany and feed the latent racism of manifestations that the motto they use is not « We want a dignified centre and made with time and shape, the theme they use is « We do not want it at our bars. Also the double morals on the part of the Socialists to claim rights in Parliament and then not to guarantee, from their mayors, the control of everyone who has lived in the municipalities governed by you; a necessary journey, as you perfectly know, in order to be able to have access to these basic rights. It was one of the points that my parliamentary group has also made to this motion and which has not been accepted and therefore cannot be put to the vote. As also the double standard of being very demanding with the Government of the Generality and, in turn, not doing things well either on this issue of the Government of the State. In summary, we will continue to feel strong in demanding transparent information from the Government of the Generality on the part of citizens, institutional coordination well done to activate all Community resources, which facilitate a welcome and successful social integration of these children and young people. But be just as strong in denouncing who is using the issue to do electoralism, and especially when it comes to irresponsibility to work together to create an environment that makes possible the integration of children and young people to whom we have the obligation to guarantee human rights and citizens' rights, because they say it in international conventions, because they say it in our laws and because we are and we are people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.5.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Congresswoman Elisabeth Valencia has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.6.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, deputies, deputies, good morning to all. Today we again debate at the plenary session of the Parliament on children. From Ciutadans we would like to come here to discuss opportunities for our children, to fight child poverty, to make educational improvements, but unfortunately, one more day, because it is not. We return to plenary after passing motions in Parliament and promoting a specific plenary on children, to ask once again not to violate the rights of children in the child protection system. The Government is responsible for the custody and guardianship of these children, it has obligations, and it cannot and should not look elsewhere on matters affecting these children. It's obvious, but I say it because they don't; that's why I remember it. The first thing we should do in Catalonia to guarantee the rights of these children is a protection system that meets the objective for which it was created, that is, a functioning child protection system. Right now we have a government that goes without direction and without strategy in the protection of these children, and, more importantly, there has been a very serious lack of ethics in a matter as sensitive as childhood. What we find intolerable and regrettable is that there is a judicial investigation under way on suspicion of corruption in the Directorate-General for Children and Councillors, nor the one that was a Councillor so far, Mrs..., well, before, Mrs Bassa, nor the one that is a Councillor now, have not come here to give a single explanation on the subject. Yes, I mean Mr Calvo, former Director General of Children, who has also been Councillor of Esquerra Republicana and who is being investigated for awarding million-dollar contracts to companies related to him when he was Director General of Children, companies in which he had managerial responsibilities. And what has Esquerra done about these suspicions of corruption? For I will tell you what you have not done: neither the Conseller Bassa nor the Conseller El Homrani have come here to face these suspicions of its director general, to explain to us in the Parliament, here, in parliamentary seat, where we are represented all Catalans, the facts by which Mr Calvo is investigated. Nor do we have transparency in the awards to foundations being made by the Directorate-General for Children now. The government has hidden itself under the table of the Generalitat, of the councillor, before at least the great hunch and lack of ethics of the Republican Left with a matter as sensitive as childhood. We'll see what justice says about Mr. Calvo. What I do announce to you is that there are many things that smell bad in the Directorate-General for Children, and we have asked for an audit to lift carpets and to put light and transparency, at once, in this general direction. We will not allow revolving doors, irregularities, or influence trafficking on such a sensitive issue as childhood. The child protection system was already in an emergency situation before the massive arrival of unaccompanied migrant minors, but Mr. Calvo was too busy awarding contracts to related foundations. We already warned in 2016 of the need to invest, especially in the first reception, because it was already collapsed then. The government did not listen to us, and last year the child protection system broke out: we had children sleeping on the floor of police stations, in the City of Justice..., intolerable situations that we hope will not be repeated again. We have pointed out from the opposition the way: emergency summit with all the actors involved, strategy, investment, and coordination between the different administrations. Do it, please, once and for all. We also wonder what happens to the strategy presented by the Government in January to improve the child protection system. In January they did what they know best: photos and more photos, ties and more ties, but then, nothing at all. A government that does not govern, a government without budget, a government without direction in social policies. We repeat once again to the Government that it must coordinate between its departments and with the different administrations in order to achieve a reception that does not violate the rights of these minors. We have also tabled three amendments to this motion by the Socialist Party, with the aim of improving the motion and we appreciate the willingness to reach agreements. We ask once and for all the Government to commit itself to children, once and for all, and especially to children in vulnerable situations. Our boys and girls and our society are missing a lot of opportunities. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.7.0	Next, and on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rut Ribas has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.8.0	Thank you, President. Well, good morning to everyone. First of all, I would also like to start this intervention by grabbing a little the thread of words that Deputy Moreno left us at the previous plenary session. Part of her intervention, and also made reference to Congresswoman Ribas, dedicated her to whitewashing the statements and actions of the Mayor of Ruby about young people who migrate alone. And we all know, and we were hoping that that's how you defended it, as well as other policies of your party, and it goes to say, that that response and that show wasn't a gathering action, but all the contrary, because, at the time when it's on the side of those who reject and don't want a gathering centre for young people, for a long time that tries to turn the trout, on the head and on the end, it's a gesture of rebuilding the young people, and unfortunately actions of this type, then, don't help a good gathering or an inclusive for young people. He also commented in his intervention that the collection cannot be stigmatized. That's why we need to avoid, so let's consider, the spectacles of this type of rebuking, that the only one they make is to get more stigma and stereotypes to the motxillas of young people who have come to the search for a better future here. But luckily, also, before these actions, the citizenry responds, and then there are many who go out on the street to claim this society of gathering and inclusive that we all want. That said, my opinion of the young man was in line with his. At the same time, we value it very positively, we have made contributions and we have been able to reach agreement with Deputy Moreno, and that is what we celebrate, because we are ahead of a phenomenon and we want the young people to have this good welcome. And to do so, then, let us consider that there is a good coordination between the government and the assemblies, and, as the honourable Member said, therefore, they are dropping these agreements, and that is why we are here today, to find understandings as well. And, at times, we also believe that it is awareness and pedagogy to build this inclusive society that we want, and to work on it, in part, also..., must be of all institutions. The collection of young people who migrate only a short time ago are in Catalonia and claim their own rights every day and have very clear objectives: their work, social and educational inclusion. And, as my colleague and deputy Marta Vilalta said yesterday, the situation today is complex and requires emergency measures, immediate, transversal, integrated and integral that facilitate this attention, welcomed and inclusive of young people. But at the same time, we cannot forget that resources must encourage and improve their attention and vital projects in society. While there may be a need to strengthen coordination, as we have said, from third-sector entities, the DGAIA, the government and the assemblies are working to improve this attention and opportunities for a better inclusive project that favored the good vital project, and that we also need to put it in value, and, in fact, also, part of the points that the young person has already created, approved and even implemented. He also tried to make a prognostic, and, thus, predict the arrival of young people. There's a landing protocol today. Studies have been carried out on the need for the opening of centres and places, according to the forecast of arrivals; a study was carried out on the participation of the Secretary of Children, Adolescents and Youth, the gatherings and also the entities of the third sector, as it could not otherwise be, and also takes into account the profiles of the young people who migrate only thinking of their first gathering, then to facilitate their inclusion and also managing the situation of the young people a time coming to the majority of age, so that they do not remain at the stage, but only age for their future. And, for example, we could also explain the creation of this new emergence center to help women migrate victims of rape alone. As we said yesterday, we share the need to improve the follow-up, but it would also be worth noting that we are one of the few regions that, once the majority of years have been completed, are not part of the appeal but still part of it. The movement focuses on the professionals who support the various centres. We want to continue to support and work to ensure your safety and overcome any situation you need, but on the other hand, guaranteeing children's rights is not the same as increasing seedlings. We will abstain at the point where the specific location of our centres is asked. We did it because, as you should know, you can't publish the coordinates of a new center, and that's why we've been trying to introduce the puzzle. We have also proposed a concept of family reunification, which we hope will be approved, this concept, because this young man holds the title "the system of protection of childhood and adolescence, and for this reason we have considered it opportune to put in full the importance of continuing to promote family reunification in Catalonia". For what you do – quickly – to Mr. Valencia, yes, the Secretary General and the Secretary of Social Affairs and Families came here to give explanations around Mr. Calvo, and there's a plan to gather..., from which you left when he presented it. And, finally, and again, we have tried to urge the Spanish government to develop a new special social security regime. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] by professional embracers– I ended up, president– but 'nsha did not accept the message; just as we still think that, if the State made its access and maintenance requirements more flexible...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.9.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.10.0	...of regularity, a lot of precarious young people who today suffer would not exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.11.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]] On behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of MP Imma Gallardo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.12.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... good morning to everyone. Public accompanying us, deputies and deputies, and parliamentary staff, good morning. Today, we are debating a motion on the protection system for children and adolescents, presented by the PSC Group and Units for Progress, and I would like to begin by thanking the group proposing to be able to have the opportunity to debate again on the protection system for our children and adolescents. It's a shame that, seeing most of the young lady's points, it's clear what the subject is. However, please also the predisposition of Mr Moreno, the good work of Mrs Ribas and the contributions of the other Members, because today we can talk again about the protection of our children and young people. Even though they are born here or in other places, they are infants and young, and most of us should be able to put ourselves on their skin. They are, together with the great people, the weakest collection, and it is clear that we need to age for their welfare and protection, and that means planning, but also reviewing, what is working and what can be better. Also, the debate around these truly important issues should focus precisely on this. And, in this sense, I would like to highlight the good initiative... that, in this very Parliament, on April 1st, at the door of the double electoral rally, all the groups, all the parties with parliamentary representation would sign a pact for which we committed ourselves to making a responsible debate on immigration and against racism and xenophobia possible. It was an unpublished and exemplary pact, easy and obvious people, but it was considered necessary so that this was not an issue for which, happily, votes could be taken. Despite this, we all have some unfortunate episodes that could have been handled differently. We can discuss the problem at heart, but we have come here, too, to recognize who our skills are, what is the cost of the service, but also what is the real financing, because the State has made a decree to contribute 40_million euros at state level to be able to cope with this situation, but since the Government of the Generality has already said on its day that people did not agree with these criteria of allocation: Catalonia rep 2_million euros, like, for example, Euskadi or the Valencia Country, whereas Andalusia in respect of more than 25. We can also debate what is the high degree of responsibility, which I think is overwhelmingly demonstrated when only Catalonia and the Basque Country have youth aid programs that have already completed the majority of years and where, therefore, the law no longer obliges them. The area of support to the protected and extruded young has already been created with this objective and will continue to develop it because to the infants and adolescents who have passed through the protection system it is possible to offer a real opportunity to include our society. Some data. When we wear a year, four hundred girls and girls arrived, when in all of 2015 there were 377; during 2018, more than 3,600 minors arrived. In two years, this problem has increased a lot, the arrivals have multiplied almost by God, making it difficult for us to get together and putting in tension the entire protection system of the child we have in Catalonia, but also that of the same Spanish State. The way we have faced it from here has been different, yesterday the very honorable President Torra said in his appearance or the same advisor has said it on various occasions. In order to get into the matter, we agree with most of the points of this young man. In any case, our reviews – some have not been accepted – are in the sense of clarifying some concepts, as is the case with the promotion that the mayors and mayors of Catalonia encourage the calls of the local security assemblies, according to the law of the public security system, to deal with all the questions related to the security of the municipality, where they are informed of the situation of the minor strangers not accompanied, if necessary. He already attends those meetings where, for his emergence, he should be present; to go to them all would be to recognize that this collection is a problem, and that way he goes back to stigmatizing. We also share that it would be useful to present in your parliamentary office a planning of the new centres that are planned to open during this year and for the coming year, meeting the needs of gathering and also specifying the characteristics. But the Secretary of Children, Adolescents and Youth has already carried out the study of the need for the opening of centers and places, according to the forecast of this year. You can try to do the same for 2020, but you need to be aware that information and skills in this matter do not correspond to the Generality but to the State Government, and that makes it difficult. In any case, for a question of protection of children's and young children's rights attached to the protection system, as Mrs Ribas said, the intended location cannot be established. For what it does to protection and special attention to minors who have been victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation, from Junts to Catalonia we agree that it will also be necessary to secure this specific training planned for encany. To emphasize that a pioneering equipment has recently been opened to assist young people in these situations, a collection that, even though it is a minority, requires a sense of this attention. Finally, we will vote in favour of most of the points of this motion; we will abstain in points 4, 6, 6 bis and 7 bis, and we will vote in favour of points 7, 11, 21 and 23. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.13.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, in order to fix her position, she has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the deputy, Ms. Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.14.0	Good morning. As has already been said, this young man, that he does not have an inquiry, nor in a concrete context, that it is the fact that they have taken place in Rubí, and we say, for the time being, unfortunate statements and attitudes of the mayor of the PSC of Rubí. I will not go into depth, but we would certainly like to put on the table that, in the context of the municipal elections, the majority of groups or some of the groups were either jumping or they hated the pact that we had just done not to serve the questions about the migrant people and the migrant community as to the electoral question, which many of you did. That time it was Rubí, it also went to Castelldefels and Canet. In that case, the DGAIA's projection of setting up unaccompanied centres of minor migrants led to the opposition of the mayor and some of the vehemently expressed lives in Rubí. Those reasons are expressions of xenophobia and racism; both yesterday and today, they have always had the same objectives: to mark a 'us' opposed to them. Today it's about building these teenagers and young people as an unacceptable enemy who poses a threat to us, and this young man also understands this feeling. The ratzie watch which forms part of 'ours, want to assure who has access to the right and to the citizenry. This lunyania respects "we are the ones who deny their rights as children and young people. But who do we let into the "we and who do we let into our community also define who we are as the people. We believe that this question of foundations on an institutional racism that prevails in the management of our institutions and also in childhood policies is there, but there is also a fundamental question about AIFM and an important problem: the privatized and pre-charitable system of child care is a central part of the problem. Since the Generality it has been chosen to implement a system of protection of the childhood of private concertation, which means that there is an 80_percent of private places. This reality is made worse by the concentration of services in few providers and by the corrupt practices of the former Director of DGAIA, Ricardo Calvo... – which, of course, we would vote in favour. On the motion, in general, we will vote in favour of a good part of the points. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , but– let'macabar, president, one_second– we will not vote in favour of those points which are tendentious and which deepen in this institutional racism, such as associating childhood with insecurity and violence, as in points 7 and 8. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.15.0	It is then the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of the MP Esperança García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.16.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning to you all. Well, now it's been a year of government, exactly from the new government of the Generality, encapsulated by Mr. Torra. A plethora of childhood and before a situation where we have reached points of alarm, of cares, of lack of forecast, with a situation and with a speech that still the counselor..., I am very sorry, but I find that it is childish and little mature and little realistic with the reality that we have, we have found ourselves with this young man. We also have to make it clear that the situation has reached such a point of imprisonment and social alarm when there have been episodes– punctual, but yes, episodes– of violence, which are the protagonists of these unaccompanied minors, and of the opening of a centre with nighttime, betrayal and lack of forecast and minimum conditions for Rubí, which I believe is practically the origin of this young man. All that said, making a report of everything that has happened, seeing this young man, knowing that the younger children have ended up sleeping on the land of the commissariats as an absolutely abnormal form of minimal attachment to those younger ones not accompanied, we will give support to this young man. And it must also be said, or we must say to the Socialist Party, that we would like you to have exactly the same consistency when you are in the Government of the State to make this management with certainty, with order, with no obvious effects that you ask for in this young man. Precisely half a year ago, in this specific plenary of childhood, the People's Party presented a motion for a resolution that was approved, but it seems that the Government has not done everything possible to implement it. It was asked to deploy the Law of Rights and second opportunity; it was asked to plan, increase places, implement follow-up and specific attention to those children with addiction problems. We have not heard of this last question. They've got a lot to do. Only four days ago, counselor, you in an interview said that there was no problem with MENA, and this is not a reality: you are covering your eyes so as not to manage an uncomfortable reality, but you need to manage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.17.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To pronounce on the papers, it is the return of Mr Raúl Moreno's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.18.0	Thank you, President. Very quickly. Mrs Ribas, the fate we have at these times is that the citizenry of Rubí has spoken to the elections and, therefore, before a problem that is produced by the campaign there has been a clear answer on the part of the city council: 33_percent of the votes. Otherwise, what's the alternative, Mrs Ribas? What is the alternative that they propose to Rubí before the establishment of a centre that has not been formally communicated to the assembly, that does not meet the conditions, and that Rubí already has a centre to accommodate! And to say that part of the population is racist, precisely because it doesn't want the center to settle there, I think it's doing a little favor to what it should be and to what this young man claims, that it's already asking the government to talk to the assemblies to set up a gathering centre. Getting to this point is the clearest example of things not doing well. And when things don't work out and they don't explain, it's normal for the citizenry to react many times by disconnection. But the mayors aren't executors, and you, who have been the registrar of Rubi, should know. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Therefore, we need to do pedagogy and what you do here with these speeches is not to do pedagogy – not to do pedagogy. It is necessary to agree actions in the municipality with the mayors and mayors. And if it doesn't, it's a lot of reflection and a lot of clarity about what this government's compromise is with the assemblies. Mrs Rut Ribas, there is no landing protocol; there is no, there is no, we have not seen it, there is no consensus with anyone. And if it exists, bring it. There isn't. Therefore, it is essential to give an answer to this situation. To the security juntas, to go there, to summon them and to go there, and the government has not gone to the security juntas where it has spoken of minors not accompanied. And finally, to the representative of the CUP, the safety points are the ones that claim the professionals, the professionals of the assembly centers, who claim security for the children...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.19.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.20.0	...and security for the professional as well. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.21.0	We called for a vote. Is there a separate motion for a vote on this motion? [[Pause.]] Yes, ma'am Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.22.0	President, we would ask for two blocks: for one side, points 4, 6, 6 bis, 7 bis, which for us could be combined. And another block that sets points 7, 11, 21, 23.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.23.0	All right. Any other petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.24.0	We would ask to vote for separate point 7.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.25.0	All right. So, we're going to vote. We will vote first for point 7, for one band; the block with points 4, 6, 6 bis, 7 bis, and another block with points 11, 21 and 23, and finally, the rest of the vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 7 bis, separate from all the others? Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. We'll start by voting point 7. The vote begins. The 7_point was rejected by 66 votes to 63 in favour, with no abstentions. Let's now vote on point 7a–7a. The vote begins. Point 7a was approved by 67 votes to one, with 61 abstentions. We now vote on the block with points 4, 6 and 6 bis– 4, 6 and 6 bis. The vote begins. This bloc was approved by 67 votes in favour, against and 60 abstentions. Let's now vote points 11, 21 and 23 – 11, 21 and 23. The vote begins. Points 11, 21 and 23 were approved by 67 votes to 61, with no abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved, namely 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into its social inaction]] [[302-00111/12]] Let's get to the next point of the order of the day, that's it. It is the motion to question the Government about its social inaction, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word Mrs. Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.26.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. A few weeks ago we were talking about a decade lost in relation to social policies, and in the motion we are debating and voting today we ask once again for the deployment of social laws that have been kept in a drawer for many years by the Government of the Generalitat. And we're talking about the 2010 Children's Act, that is, a law passed almost ten years ago that hasn't been fully deployed; we're talking about the 2014 LGBTBI Collective Rights Act; we're talking about the 2014 Accessibility Act, that doesn't even have regulations; the Catalan Sign Language Act, almost ten years old also taking dust, or the 2008 Housing Right Act, eleven years after its adoption and still without a single sign of will on the part of the Government to create that social and affordable public housing park. For the deployment of some of these laws, then, the Government can stick more than ten years, but to deploy a banner in favor of the accused looting Catalan public accounts for it takes only half an hour. Anything that doesn't have to do with the process can wait. They have had no objection to delaying this plenary session and moving the day in order to be able to go all the way to Madrid, because for the Government Catalans and their problems are not a priority. For the government the problems of Catalans are the last, that is, to get the chorizos out of jail and go for a walk to Madrid to see the trial friends, for all that they have time and money. But Catalans and the social problems of Catalonia are their last priority, we see, ten years can be spent to deploy laws, and they don't change, they just say they're working on it. To deploy social laws they are all excuses, but to mess and performance they are all hasty. Every time we ask you about the social needs of the Catalans we are subjected to an exercise of parliamentary anesthesia; yesterday we lived here again with Mr Torra's appearance, instead of giving explanations about his sit-down strike, you are dedicated to making him the opposition to the opposition. And, gentlemen of Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra, if a monograph on children's policies has been held in this Parliament it has been because Citizens, as leaders of the opposition, forced their celebration; if a full monograph on the recovery of coexistence and the prioritization of the social agenda was held in this Parliament it was because Citizens forced their celebration, and if in this Parliament there is a policy commission for the elderly it is because Citizens proposed it. What have you been doing all this time? Yesterday Mr. Torra claimed that everything was going very well. But no, it's not like that: you have Catalonia completely abandoned. And not just us, it is people with disabilities who accuse them of their lack of interest and rigour in issues of accessibility; it is the special employment centres that denounce the Generalitat's defaults; it is the social workers and workers of residences who have come out to the street to protest; it is the entities that manifest themselves by the slow deployment of the guaranteed income of citizens or denounce the increase of child poverty in Catalonia and the lack of opportunities in children. What, is everyone wrong, or are you the ones who go in the opposite direction? And while Mr. Torra is at a press conference passing powerpoints, he has social entities out there waiting for them to pay what they owe. And wake up, because you are champions in child poverty and waiting lists for attention to dependency. And instead of devoting so much energy to criticising Spain, which, although it is one of the most advanced democracies in the world, as the European Court of Human Rights has endorsed, destinates these energies to equalize social investment to the Spanish media. The same rush that has been made to get Oriol Pujol out of prison employs him to ensure equal opportunities in children by equalising, at least, investment in children with the Spanish media. Keep the banner in favor of the thugs and get the social laws out of the drawer. And please put some order in the DGAIA. In this motion we ask for something that we think very necessary: an audit of the management of the DGAIA, because some of us have long suspected of the chollo that some people with party cards would have, with some entrées of companies that would even host a real estate profit, where from merchant companies of the same group they would be charging oversized rents to the foundations that received the subsidies. And as seen, it was inevitable that the child protection system would end up collapsing, because the money from the subsidies would not be getting to where it should be, nor would the motivation of some people involved be the best good of the child. We call for an audit of the management of the DGAIA to shed light on this issue and to ensure that the funds allocated to children are to provide children with a future that is worthy and full of opportunities. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.27.0	To defend the papers presented has the word now, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.28.0	Thank you, President. Well, we could define this young man, let's say, as a list of unfinished tasks; not two months ago: years ago, when they ruled some of the games that are still running today. I believe that it demonstrates very well the inaction of the Government of the Generality in social matters. So difficult is it – I ask – that the government deploys laws? - I don't understand what they're doing, if not, huh? Is it so hard to compliment the agreements that this Parliament urges the government to do? Because, if we don't, we could probably be here. If this Parliament urges the government to do some things, the government should try to do them. Because, of course, there are two parts to this young man, let's say, the great hits of all life—already said throughout life—in which the law is required to be fully deployed to guarantee the rights of lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgenderes and intersexuals; to deploy the Law of Rights of Childhood and Adolescence of the Year 2010 on a regular basis; to deploy the Law of Accessibility on a regular basis; to deploy the Law of Catalan Sign Language on a regular basis. I'll make an incis. You can't say that they're social politicians, because while we're here, today there are deaf students signing to the schools, now, at this time, that they'll be sitting at their table, that they won't listen to the teacher's explanations, because they don't have an understanding; deaf students in Catalonia don't have an understanding during all school hours. And until this injustice – and it's not yours, Mr. Counselor, but it's your government, it's Mr. Bargalló's – it's not over, you can't give lessons in social politics and social compromises. It's just that it's very hard for me to find a case that's clearer than injustice to those people who have some kind of disability. I'm on it. The deployment of the Law of the Right of Women to eradicate male-based violence; male-based or intra-family violence. Gentlemen of Ciutadans, I don't know if there's been any kind of agreement to change the nomenclature, like Andalusia, huh? No, you don't make this face, Mrs. De la Calle: you, with Vox and the People's Party, have proposed to Andalusia, so as to approve the assumptions, that instead of saying "gender rape" is to say "domestic rape", with two noses, eh? [[Widow's remorse.]] Also, man, we've had one question, because we've left the approval of the guaranteed income regulation of citizenship, which they told us when it was approved that it's trigaria 210 days, but we've heard the magnificent news that it might be trigian two hundred more days and that we'll approve it at the end of the year or at the beginning of the year you see. This is the management of this government. So, even though this young man is repetitive, it's the same as usual, it's the same thing that we claim to be full, in different motions, in full monograms. I understand that the City Group has put it back on the table, because we must insist on the compliment of what is basic, of the spread of laws. And we will logically support this audit that DGAIA needs to put, black on white, what is happening in a protection system that manages a lot of public resources, a huge amount of public resources, that has to do with protecting our childhood and adolescence and that is and has been in the rain for its management. Therefore, it is necessary to study – and it should be something that the same government put in the way – what is happening to the DGAIA. Nothing more, ladies and gentlemen... but a few fears that I would also like to highlight before I finish. We have a theme that is the Social Service Portfolio. If we want to make a substantial change to social policies, to social welfare in this country, we must start opening the Social Service Portfolio. It will be impossible, among other things, because you have no presuppositions, because you have not presented them. Why is this story that you now want to make us see, like today, right? , which is that the opposition had not approved some presuppositions, has it not? Clearly, they haven't shown up. Therefore, we have not been able to hold the opportunity neither to discuss nor to speak nor to make statements. Therefore, it is necessary, it is urgent, the reform of the Social Service Portfolio is necessary. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.29.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.30.0	When I went to the House to listen to Ciutadans's question with respect..., well, who gave little to this young man, I had an already seen, in some parts, with an inquiry that I had made during the fever to Councilman Chakir El Homrani, in this case centered on three priorities that we set for the department, three priorities that were linked to assumptions, to which we had placed as a parliamentary group for assumptions, and which were especially childish, dependent and guaranteed. We probably had a more purposeful aspect or purpose in the inquiry and in the motion, than the Ciutadans did, but they also served, that inquiry and that motion, to denounce the many incompliments that we had in this case in these three priorities. Today with this citizen's youth we are, as I said now, a great hit and a more comprehensive rest of all these failures; incompliments of this government, of the past and a few more years back. Incompliments which have consequences, incompliments which collect on a population, on a country which has one_third of child poverty; which has a right-to-residence division of thousands; which has thousands of families with very small entries that do not agree to collect the guaranteed income from citizenship; which has a CIHR, which marks all social assistance and benefits, frozen since 2010; which has a homophobic attack every two days, with a law against the LGTFóbia not regularly deployed of the whole; which has people with disabilities who cannot enjoy what they say and guarantee our own laws, because they have not been deployed regularly, etc. Many examples of incompliments that appear in this motion, which we will obviously support. We've already introduced one of those points that we've put in that fever scene and that I've just proven, with the government's compliment report, that they haven't completed; an extra incompliment. In that young man, more purposefully than today's young man, the Ciutadans movement, respects the system of protection for children and adolescents, we say: "Look, as you, and with the sector, create a work commission for the overall review of the system. This is not our proposal; it is not just a proposal by the system's professionals. It is a proposal that the Government has said and repeated on many occasions that it would do. We were gonna put her in that young man's room at the fever. The compliment report of that young man on behalf of the government has just been published, and they tell us that this commission has not been created. We only have to approve points like Ciutadans, which is, therefore, that you do an external audit at the end. We ask the government, actively and passively, to solve the problems. They are one year old, already more than one year old, and all the proposals for purpose and construction that have been made to them by this parliamentary group have not been completed. Therefore, perhaps, we will have to put all the toughest and most demanding, and in this case, in the child protection system, through audit. And we regret that in this case it is Citizens who cover up their shames in a couple of incompliments more than we have tried to introduce items into this young man. On one side, posing with a concern a reprobation of the Public Service Secretariat, but also of Councillor Puigneró, as the political leader of this department, because the motion of our parliamentary group to the previous plenary was approved by this plenary which called for a review of how the opening of competitions for social workers and which was affecting, wasn't it? , all the people who are in the interim and who felt that they were not ensuring in any way that this knowledge and this mess of these people could continue, when they did not feel guilty that the Administration had failed to create these places before. This was approved for this Plea. Mr Puigneró called the Public Employees' Bureau of the Administration of the Government of Catalonia to speak about this point approved in this plenary by Parliament and told the public service unions: "I don't think I'm giving – not him, but the Public Service Secretariat – " compliment this point approved for Parliament. We planned the failure of Public Service for this failure, for this clear expression that they do not intend to complete this point. He won't vote because Ciutadans didn't want to accept it, your accomplices not to report a failure in this case. [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]] Neither did Councilman El Homrani's reprobation for saying...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.31.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.32.0	...that will not make the regulation of guaranteed citizenship income until the beginnings of the coming year, even though to the motion that was referring to it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.33.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.34.0	...it was approved that it should be published immediately. We keep trying, we keep insisting. I told them, we'd get tougher, we'd get tougher...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.35.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.36.0	...in denouncing their failings. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.37.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Mr José Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.38.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. I wanted first to greet the companies of the Third Sector Table who have come here invited for the Republican Group and begin to explain the voting position or..., more than anything, the experience of our voting position and of our discussions on this motion. Sometimes randomities are vital, important, because they give perspective. And I have the privilege – sometimes..., well, it's a privilege, yes – to live in the poorest or lowest middle-income neighbourhood of the district, with the lowest income in the city of Barcelona. And this allows you to see, to have a sufficiently privileged view of how the social services of this country work, especially at a short distance, and to see how in these years the social cohesion of our country has been maintained precisely for this red line of social services, also of other servants of the welfare state. And this red line of fact has endured, even though there have been flaps, which have been donated here and throughout Europe, to suffer the pressure of a higher demand for social services, and they have endured, and suffered a design, that in fact all the social services of our state, that causes social services not to be much more than a shadow car than the rest of the welfare or market state. And that's what they've been holding on to. They have endured, in part, because there have been advisers like the Lower Dolors, that still and not have assumptions, and still have suffered repression, during the short time that she has been councillor she has been able to boost guaranteed income. And for the impulse of governments that have tried, from the health line that many groups have made with the independenceists during this mandate, to promote and support the social services of Catalonia. But it's true that there are problems with the social services in Catalonia, and this young man was a young man to face them. In fact, when we put together the papers and the dialogue with the group that pushed it, we really wanted to take advantage of this motion to be able to work in the papers on the real problems that the social protection system in Catalonia has. We could have taken advantage of it to introduce new forms of investment analysis into childhood, but they didn't. It's just like you went to the presentation of these UNICEF indicators. The important thing was not that, the important thing I think in this young man is to pick up headlines and then come here to Parliament and say that the government does nothing or relate it to the process, or ask for rules to be made that ignore all the administrative terms and all the allegations, and in fact ask the government to prescribe to skip all the terms to keep the rules here right now. That's what I'm saying. I know it's hard, because this young man could have taken advantage of it. I'm very hard to taste. But I see that what we're doing here in Parliament is looking for headlines, and it's a shame. It was also an option to start dealing with reversing the details that social workers suffered and the whole state of welfare. It was an opportunity. Already open the debate of the assumptions in this Parliament, let's leave it alone, shall we? That is to say, there has been a health cord already before everything that is independent in this country, and what they do above all some groups that say to navigate between two eagles is to avoid the debate of all this and not to talk about the assumptions. But when we raised a big problem with the social services in this country, it's also a financial system that's coming back, because it makes Catalan working classes pay and don't have the services... so they didn't want it. I would like to thank, yes, the attitude of the Member who carried this item. We've had an open, frank dialogue, but it's hard for me to know that in the background it wasn't your intention, but the ultimate intention is that it has its group and that it has some opposition groups, that it's coming here to look for headlines, to relate things to the process, to ask for impossible terms to come here and say that the government is incomplete. In fact, we are not using the privileges we have as Members to improve the system of social services in Catalonia; the only one we seek are holders. And that's what I know very hard. Still, with the intention of voting, we'd try to be the most generous to push forward the hope that I think I should have pushed this young man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.39.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] On behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of the MP Mònica Sales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.40.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, « a government that does not govern, « a government that does not govern, « a government that does not govern, and so we can be until someone falls exhausted ; a mantra, his mantra, that joins to the bars, to the parallel realities of the world of Matrix, to his language sometimes scarcely accurate, in parliamentary session, to try to show a reality that does not fit our reality. We lack dialect, we lack realism and we lack self-criticism. That's what they tell us; that's good and good. But we open the door for them to talk and they prefer to stay in the garden to do the media number. We invite you to the Palau de la Generalitat and your answer is 'no' on a continuous basis. We invite them to talk about the assumptions, and they're turning to us. It must be that you are left with the dialog, and that is why they practice repeatedly with Vox, a party that is concerned about social policies. Let's teach the righteous. To be aware that the government rules is to be realistic, and we are. To be aware that everything has room for improvement is to be realistic, and we are. Being aware that self-criticism is going to be realistic, and we are. To be aware that it's a job is to be realistic, and we are. That's why they can come to terms with this young man to introduce us. They talk about guaranteeing the protection of childhood and adolescence, reversing the infra-financing of social services and care for people, shielding the fourth pillar of the welfare state, ending the territorial inequality of resources in care for people and activating the deployment of Catalan social laws. And if you defend these points, so would we, you'd just miss it. But as the government is not the one of the magic rod but that it is the one of the few on the ground, that it is certain that it has travelled to Madrid and that it will continue to travel to Madrid while we have the president of the Parliament and the legitimate government in prison, some of the things that you propose need its terms, its processes, its negotiations and above all its consensus, and they are doing, it is a fan and they will do it. But as the mantra of inaction has been repeated, it is repeated and will be repeated, entering to analyze each of the points is complicated, and so I will make a positive balance after the work done with the papers, together with the deputy Rodriguez of the Republic Group, to whom I thank the harvest. We must be active and we want to be more active, after the points that we have given, I suppose, as he explained a while ago. Conjured with parliamentary groups that support the Government and with the consent of the local world, where, of course, there is no representation, I seem to recall, despite this covert celebration of pact with those who always want to give us lessons, during this first year of the term of the Dozene Legislature the Government maintained its commitment to the country of equality and equity and to the country just to ensure social cohesion and social justice. But us, social inaction, right? Look at the Interdepartmental Plan to Support Families 2019-2021, with €700_million; €920_million in employment policies; boost of the National Pact for People with Disabilities to address their challenges; follow-up committee on guaranteed income from citizenship and expansion of assumptions; multiplying by seven in two years of economic effort as regards care for young immigrants and adolescents; not to speak of other improvements in education, housing, health, prevention policies, measures to combat male violence. Certainly, as they have already said, a ‘male violence' which seems that, because of its excess of dialogue with Vox, it must now be ‘in-family violence to deal with certain assumptions; but social inaction seems to us to be ours. And you keep talking about science-fiction, which we will continue to do without forgetting about the welfare state. That's why we want a republic, a virtual republic, like the one that works from the councillor's department Puignero – certainly, to whom the commons today themselves accuse for making statements in a supposed meeting that he didn't attend, and when I tried to explain them to you objectively that he wasn't even so proud to answer me –, and also the rest of the councillors and the president, and together with two million people who are serving a country and a future. I'm done with the words of President Torra uttered yesterday from this Faristol: it's always the right time to do the right thing. And I add that this moment is now and here. Let's go back to it, when they happen, with the government mantra that doesn't rule. But no, it's not « let's go back to it, it's « let's go back to it. And, if I may, today, since you have spoken of sign language before and you always speak of sign language, today, as the Fesoca indicates, is the National Day of the Language of Catalan Signs, and, therefore, good morning to all the deaf people of Catalonia celebrating this day, as the Fesoca says. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.41.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To fix his position, it is now the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP; it is the turn of the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.42.0	Thank you, President. From the sco itself. Look, we'll give support to this young man, we'll vote yes, and we think he's a young man who doesn't just react or respond to the inaction or failure of government action in this matter, but he should also consider that he's responding to a background problem, to a model problem, to a structural problem where social policies are in this country. And, look, we'll explain. Basic rights or fundamental rights such as dependency, but under the assumption of availability and full arbitrariness from the point of view of its public management. Basic social rights or basic social services, but of ex gratia concession, also subject to presuppositional availability or full discretion on the part of the administrations that manage and grant them. The provision of these social services mainly by means of the subsidy, concertation or public competition system; therefore, obviously, with a clear purpose: the precariousness of the workers and workers in this sector who are dedicated to the provision of these services, the nature of work in the case of the private enterprises that the provider provides, obviously also to the detriment of the conditions of work of the staff that it dedicates itself to and to the detriment of the quality of the provision of the service, and also, in the case of subsidies, of course, also under the criteria of grace, of presupposition and of discretion. Not to mention the public competition system, which every year, any year, subtends the performance of these you serve to a subtly system, obviously also to the detriment of the performance system. Therefore, all folded – all folded – is what generates the problem to which this young man refers. And listen, when the 1980s, when the 1990s, in this country began to design and think about the system through subsidies and the third sector, it was not for a great love of the associated and cooperative system, it was already known that this would lead to lower prices, precariousness, etc. The solution is clear – the solution is clear –: basic rights, social rights, non-grace and presuppositional rights; that basic social services have the same mandatory treatment as public education or public health, and that the performance is done through resources [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] Public ownership, public management, which is the only way to guarantee its stability and non-precariousness...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.43.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.44.0	...as long as it takes to make pieces like this young man.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.45.0	Thank you. It is now the return of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.46.0	Thank you, President. Well, this motion refers effectively to a set of actions of the social welfare department – of Treball, Afers Socials and Families – that are not due to the end, therefore, with the effectiveness and with the necessary action in order to benefit the conjunction of citizenship. And obviously we can say inaction or we can't say inaction, but a government that doesn't have any assumptions is a government that obviously has limited its ability for long-term social policies. But more than one government that does not have any presuppositions in two exercises makes it even more difficult to pull social policies forward. I will refer to three of the various questions that appear in this motion that I consider to be relevant; two, surely, because they have not been dealt with in the interventions, because there are many questions, and a third that has been touched. The first is the need for multi-annual calls for grants and help social entities that eventually work in this camp. It is essential in order to be able to make programs of actions in the medium term to be able to hold the guarantee of the financing, and therefore to have the certainty of the financing that they will also have in the medium term in order to be able to program effectively the activities that must last in the long term. The second question also seemed to us to raise, the territoriality of resources to be able to fill the joint venture of society. There is not enough to concentrate social welfare resources there..., obviously, where there is more need, but only in the metropolitan environment; also, removed from the metropolitan environment, there is a need for action in the social sphere. And therefore, we believe that it is important that there is a map of the territorial distribution of resources to ensure that we reach all the people in Catalonia who need it, are in the metropolitan area, are in the urban area or are outside the urban area. And the third, the legislative deployment. And the deployment that is asked of this young man goes in two ways: one, presuppositionary deployment, which, as we say to the principle, with this government, looks like an oximoron, presuppositions and this government are incompatible concepts, but what is compatible with the minimum is the regulatory deployment. In this sense, the pending laws of regulatory deployment are numbered.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.47.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the word of new Mrs Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.48.0	Firstly, I would like to thank the parliamentary groups for the amendments tabled and for the good treatment of the Members with whom we have been able to reach agreements. We have accepted the SGP amendment on the secured income regulation, the amendment of commons on the working group for the comprehensive review of the child protection system and have been able to agree on the point where we called for the call for grants to be re-multiannual, adding the move from the subsidy to conciliation, or also the point on the deployment of the LGTBI Collective Rights Act, and we have not accepted the amendments that lowered the level of demand for the motion. And, look, Mrs Ribas, make no mistake: concessions to the government, none. We have already seen from what is useful in this Parliament the reprobations, which here we have Mr Sanchis reprobated by this Parliament, even accused, that we do not even take him out of TV3 with hot water. And, look, I'm going to tell you one thing: for Citizens, Councillor Puigneró and Councillor Homrani don't deserve a reprobation, they deserve a cessation, and it's something we have repeated since Citizens on countless occasions. If they don't know how to manage, if the job comes to them big, if it gives them laziness, then what they have to do is take a step aside, resign and let go of someone who really wants to work for all Catalans and not be walking around and looking like a palm tree. Here we come to work, which is what citizens pay us for. And, look, Mr Moreno, don't lie; the term "gender violence" is in the budget law of the Andalusian Board. If he'd taken a second to look at it, he'd have found it right away. And, in addition, with a higher endowment than that executed by Susana Díaz, of her party, throughout the previous legislature [[applause]] , and five times more than the PSOE executed in male violence in 2016. And yes, a support party for victims of domestic violence has also been budgeted, because does this violence not exist? Because, Mr Moreno, intrafamily and intergenerational violence exists and is a drama for the people who live it. So, Mr. Moreno, we're not taking lessons...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.49.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.50.0	...or lies from anyone. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.51.0	Call it a vote. Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Caula?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.52.0	President, for one side point number 2 and for another one block that could be point number 1, 3, 4, 6, 7 and 9..., 9:00, forgive.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.53.0	Yes, if I can't repeat it, Mrs. Caula? The second block: 2 for one side; 1, 3...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.54.0	Four, six, seven, nine.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.55.0	One, three, four, six, seven, nine, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.56.0	9:00 a.m., yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.57.0	All right. Any more petitions? Don't you? So, we will vote, first of all, point 2; then the second block of what has been asked to vote separately and, finally, we will vote on the rest of the motion. We vote, therefore, on the number two point. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 69 votes to 64, with no abstentions. Let's now vote on the block with points 1, 3, 4, 6, 7 and 9. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse. Eduard Pujol and Bonell ask to speak.]] Escotin, when I call for a separate vote, I ask the groups three or four times. They say they don't... then they don't stop the votes. Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.58.0	So if there's a mistake, you can talk to him.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.59.0	Yes, say so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.60.0	Simply this: we would like the 1st and 1st to be voted on separately as well.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.61.0	Quin – quin?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.62.0	1 and 1 bis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.63.0	1 and 1 bis to the block band that Mrs. Caula proposed?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.64.0	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.65.0	So, we're going to vote 1, 1 bis and the rest of the block, but they ask that when they ask for separate votes, they're all on the case. Vote 1 and 1 bis. The vote begins. Points 1 and 1a were approved by 102 votes to 1 with 29 abstentions. We now vote on points 3, 4, 6, 7 and 9h – 3, 4, 6, 7 and 9. The vote begins. Points 3, 4, 6, 7 and 9h were approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 64 abstentions. And now we're voting for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved, with 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into fiscal and budgetary policy]] [[302-0010/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, the twenty-first item, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the financial and budgetary policy presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word the deputy lady Adriana Delgado.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.66.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies, vice president. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, the reason we present them today is very simple: we are asking that they submit to the Government of the State for the withdrawal of the political control measures imposed in 2015 for Minister Montoro and still today for Minister Montero. It's a memory...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.67.0	One second, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet and respect the turn of the person who has the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.68.0	Thank you, President. Fent memoria, in November 2015 the Spanish Government announced that, only for Catalonia, access to the money of the autonomous liquidity fund anria accompanied by extraordinary control measures. In practice, an intervention of Catalan finances. The formal excuse was that Catalonia posed a risk to the general interest of the State due to the possible failure of its economic and financial obligations. For this reason, Catalonia's access to the FLA would be in contrast to a telematic connection for which the Government of the State would access the point of entry of electronic invoices and the requirement of a monthly certificate of execution of the whole premise, a page of formality that was not only trying to hide the motto of the win, a justified intervention then for Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría for the singularity of Catalonia. In summary, a loss for the persistence of Catalonian citizenship in giving a victory to Junts for the Yes in the elections of September 2015, a loss imposed by Mariano Rajoy but which the Government of Sánchez has maintained. In 2018 the Government of the Generality completed for the first time since the approval of the law all the objectives of fiscal stabilization – we explained to the Vice President in the inquiry – deficit, debt and expenditure rule. This good management, the result of the efforts of the vice presidents Oriol Junqueras, hired and unfairly judged, and Pere Aragonès and his teams, implies that the Generalitat can exit the FLA and join the facilitative compartment financed, with the possibility to access the markets by 2020. A job that, to insist, was neither automatic nor easy. In the first place, for the manifest injustice of the deficit objectives, which, if distributed on the basis of public expenditure, would represent a margin of 58_per_cent for the central administration and 31_per_cent for the communities. But as the State holds and decides, it gives itself a 89_percent of the margin to the target of the deficit, and leaves only an 11_percent to the communities. This, as I said, meant that 2018 the Generality had to complete a deficit target of 0.4, and it remained so, a maximum debt of 34,1_per_cent, and it remained of 34_per_cent, and a spending rule that allowed a maximum income of 2,4_per_cent and that remained of 1,6_per_cent. In three years, under Esquerra's leadership, the deficit has been reduced by 85,9_per_cent, maintaining social spending, increasing it in order to recover the levels expected at retail. He's set out to scale the generality's tickets to promote us both green and progressive taxes. While groups in this Parliament have been strong in calling on the Generality to complete its obligations to its workers, fewer strong have been in time to push the necessary legislative changes at the state level to facilitate this return. I am saying this because obviously this good management is the one that will allow you to return the extra pay of the working people. Let us hope, therefore, that at the time of claiming that the State completes its arbitrary intervention of the Generality, we find ourselves more firmly supported. Let's wait for this support because Montoro's apologies have been twofold denied. Montoro linked the control to the financing via FLA. If the Generality no longer refinances the FLA, why maintain controls? If the Generality was a danger to the macro-economic stability of the State, isn't this missing danger for the compliment of the deficit, deficit and expenditure rule that plus the same incomplete State? If they're keeping control, it's because, despite the fact that the excuses fall, the motive is maintained, and it's political gain. The usual arbitrariness of the Spanish State, before which Catalonia remains defenceless, without any arbitrariness worthy of that name or guarantees that can protect our welfare state or our civil and political rights. This arbitrariness is found in many cases, in many examples, such as, for example, the role of the head of the State against the democratic will of the citizenry to vote; arbitrariness that we find in the systematic lamination of the Generality's propitious entries through resources of the State, causing automatic suspension, and a misuse of double taxation principles by the Constitutional Court. In short, what we are asking is that they cease to justify an extraordinary and unjustifiable financial control and the arbitrariness and abuses of the State, whether political, legal or economic, are led by the PP or the PSOE. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.69.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Some applause.]] Now he has the word, to defend the papers presented, for the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya in Comú Puem, the deputy David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.70.0	Well, in the first place, we, from Catalonia to Comú Pueblo, obviously say we will give support to the movement. In fact, we also wanted to thank, in this case, the group's willingness to reach agreement on the proposed proposals. We are obviously against the intervention financed by the Government of the State in the Generality and, therefore, we believe that it is an absolutely arbitrary situation, and that this intervention should end with funding and, therefore, that these extraordinary control measures should be withdrawn. But we also understand – and it is also consistent with the speech that we made at the length of this legislature – that the generality's financial situation and its lack of financial autonomy do not only have to see – obviously it is one of the main reasons – with these extraordinary political control measures over the finances of the Generality, but also with concrete aspects that have to do with the legal framework, obviously also with the same lack of resources that the Generality has for which it also refers, in this case, to the need for fiscal reform in Catalonia and also because of the need, therefore, to open a new stage in the financing of the Generality. And that's how our reviews went. We obviously believe that the economic crisis stage has theoretically passed. We believe that, of course, the austerity policies should be brought to an end, but, despite this, we still have the institutional architecture that the People's Party has set aside for which it refers to the Presuppositionary Stability Act, especially the expenditure rule, which we have not sufficiently discussed, in this case, with the Vice-President of the Economy, which is one of the constrictions that the Generality has above all to deal with assumptions with an expansionary fall and which allow social policies to be made, which allow redistributive policies to be made, in the end, to make assumptions that end with the details. Therefore, I believe that it is essential to change the spending rule in the Presuppositional Enabling Law, and obviously it is also essential to end, in this case, with the Law of Rationalization and Sustainability of the Local Administration, known as LRSAL, which also greatly violates local autonomy. We believe that this is fundamental and that there is an opportunity to do so now at the level of the Government of the State. We also think it will be easier if we are part of the government. That's also why I let 'em surprise us with some statements he makes, in this case, Republican Left, which he believes is best that we are not in the state government. I believe that another time you are going to get back together – as we would say in a colloquial way – a little bit, because I don't think that without us feeling decisive to the Government of the State you can end up modifying the Presuppositional Enabling Law or ending up modifying the LRSAL. If not, we will see what happens in this case, with the PSOE government, which we also know, how they act and how they sometimes act in economic policy, which, despite the speeches, end up buying the liberal mark that has been installed in the European Union and with what, obviously, is to end. There's a third element that's fundamental, and I'm telling you, that to improve the generality's financial situation, they're also squandering more resources. And, obviously, here are two elements that, for us, are fundamental. We've tried on the assumptions of 2019, we'll try again on the assumptions of 2020. In this case, our task has also been accepted, which is a fundamental tax reform that serves to redistribute and fight climate change. This double can in taxation: for one thing, the redistribution of wealth and, therefore, we also get more resources for social policies, and, obviously before the climate emergency, we need to introduce green tax elements that facilitate this cultural change of the city council and at the same time allow us to have more resources to reduce and mitigate the impact of the climate change, right? And, finally, the financing of the Generality. Look, we know..., and obviously every one of them has their legitimate goals, but it's obvious that the generality's funding would have to be, in this case, renewed since 2014. Neither the People's Party, until it maintained the Government of the State, nor the Socialist Party, have they yet put forward any proposals, have they not? , from the table. But I believe that it is also the responsibility of this Parliament and the Generality to demand a new funding model. We presented a message in this sense; unfortunately, we could not reach an agreement and it was not accepted. We are also surprised, because we followed with interest how, in this case, the Vice President of the Economy in the Sitges Economic Circle said that the Generality was prepared, if the financing intervention of the Generality was to be completed, to negotiate a new system of financing bilaterally. To us it seems good; in fact, the current finance, which was counted in its moment with the support of Esquerra Republicana – I want to remember it too –, therefore, in this case it was also negotiated bilaterally from government to government. But we understand that it needs to be, don't we? renegotiate this funding system. We know hard because this is said in the Economic Circle of Sitges, but it seems that it is not possible to say in the Parliament of Catalonia and it seems that it is not possible to vote in the Parliament of Catalonia. We are supporters of defending – and I believe that there were also the words of the same economic advisor – the interests of Catalonia and the resources of Catalonia everywhere possible. I therefore believe that it is also up to us in this case to demand that the Government of the State once and for all, so reform the Catalonian financing system, which has lapsed since 2014. Many thanks, and again thank the group's willingness to accept the papers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.71.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Then again, also for reasons, it is the turn of Congresswoman Alicia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.72.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, conseller, vice president, deputies and deputies. So, look, I can't be as positive as Mr. Cid, because I haven't had the chance to negotiate with the Republican Left Group head... well, about the text. I did two tests and they didn't consider themselves. This morning I spoke for a moment with the deputy who brought the motion and said to me, "Well, it's that they didn't have to deal with the text. And it gives the chance that one of my thoughts is quite similar to the transaction you have made with you; I mean that you must surely have priority in time to agree and dialogue, while the Lord will always see here to give us lessons of morality and to say that he is so dialogueing and talking to everyone. So look, with us in this young man they didn't want to talk or have no interest in negotiating anything, because the second slogan of the Socialist Group was in the same line as the transaction made by the Republican Left with Catalonia in Comú Pode. But, well, that's all right. I also have to say that this transaction – and I'm surprised, Mr. Cid – is a little bit more than ours. We asked that the government approve of implementing the Tax Measures and Finance Act that involves a more just and progressive tax reform. There are no dates here, and therefore we will see if they are caps, in the march of the presuppost 2020 – which I understand will be before the 31st of September – to institute this reform. We were a little more powerful, because, seeing as things are going on, so I don't really think these assumptions are seeing the light. It is true that you say that you have presented them, yes, to the press, but neither have you approved them in an executed council nor have you taken them to Parliament. So much good, Mr. Aragones, so that's past it. In any case, they haven't even considered our reviews. Some considerations I wanted to make. To see, the rules, the laws, are for everyone to compliment; it is to say, for Catalonia, for Andalusia, for Valencia and for Navarre: everyone has to complete the same rules of the game. It's the government that decides who their priorities are. I understand that you two years ago don't make assumptions, and so you don't know what you're prioritising. Yesterday Mr Bargalló said to us: "Clearly, here comes a deputy and says: "The most important thing is what I carry. And then another: The most important thing is what I wear. And, of course, they're all coming out. Yeah, but it's not the work of opposition. The government's job is to prioritize and, in a presupposition, to tell us where to put the resources, and obviously they have to decide whether they go here or there they go there or here they put more or there they put less. And what we have to do as we control the government is push it and, in any case, criticize what you do. Therefore, what you should do is prioritise. And on the subject of the return of double payments that they're going to suspend when you're running public, so what you've done is not prioritise them. It's here. No rules of the game, no problems of the expense rule. They were simply not prioritized, so they were not paid. And the pressure – the pressure, yes – of the opposition, Mr Aragonès, led you to come to an agreement. And that was it, and he saw it all, and I mean, we don't have to give it more times. Look, about the deficit target, the spending rule, we haven't talked much in this Parliament either. It is a pity that the assumptions of 2019 at the Congress of Deputies were not adopted, because there were 2,200_million euros of reversal for Catalonia, 2,000_million euros in outstanding government debt agreements with the Generality, and therefore, surely, the situation would be different, the financing would be better for the Generality, because it is no longer only dependent on the control of the finances, that at the end of this it is very much eroded; it is because of many other things, the finances – said Mr Cid –: it is because we modify the taxes and have more tickets, depending on the entrances that come from the model of financing, that no longer... You say: « The People's Party did not want to do it. But it's not that the government of Catalonia either: it didn't go to meetings, it didn't sit down... even when a group of experts did, Catalonia didn't send anyone. How the Balears sent the López Casasnovas, so they said, "Well, it's going to be good for us, because... Well, listen'm, no, it's not that we sent no expert; I no longer say a policy: no expert. The government formed for the PSOE has regained a working group on autonomous finance. We expect the government to participate, because there are a lot of things going on here and, therefore, listen, we can build. While there is no other thing, this is Catalonia, we are part of the State and the model of autonomous financing is very important to have more entrances and to be able to make more social policies. That's it, and everything else, so it's turning around on a reality that doesn't exist. And, therefore, we believe that we must be serious, that we must agree on a new model of financing, that we must make a fair and progressive tax reform... And then I'd put the punch, too, I'd tell Mrs. Delgado, where she plays. If it didn't change the spending rule, it was partly because Ciutadans and the PP blocked it at the Congress Table of Deputies. And it would be good that from time to time the council, too, because they have appointed them a little, beyond talking about Mr. Montoro, that we don't even remember him anymore, thank God – well, thank you to whoever he is. And, therefore, escort'm, Ciutadans blocked at the Congress table – now it will no longer be able to do so – much law modification, including that of the expense rule. Therefore, listen'm, to each and every responsibility that it has. What we believe is that it is not the Government of the State that has to repeal and amend laws; it is the parliamentary groups that have to do it – I know, that is a way of saying it, but I think that this is also important – and we hope, therefore, that this new legislature will be opened, with a new government that has to come in the proper weeks, so please not only the petitions of Catalonia, but also the interest of the whole State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.73.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of the deputy José María Cano, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.74.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Left, you intend with this proposal to put an end to the fact that there are already few administrative controls carried out by the central government on the use you make of the financing funds of the Autonomous Communities. The first thing I want to remind you of is that they are there thanks to the solidarity of all Spaniards and that without them they would be in suspension of payments. In addition, they are controls that, Mr de Esquerra Republicana, have been won on their own, and they have been won by their own demerits, with two key elements that justify them so much: one, their harmful management of the public – I remind you, Mr de Esquerra Republicana, that you have been influencing the management of Catalan finances for more than a decade – and the other key element is your institutional disloyalty and your lack of respect for our framework of coexistence, our legal framework. Let us briefly consider the first of the elements. Look, it's absurd for them to step up in management and ask them to eliminate their controls, when they have accumulated more than 78,000_million_euros of public debt, which means more than ten_million_euros for each Catalan. And that causes no one – no one – to lend them money. They have no capacity to finance themselves; none, no capacity, zero capacity. Catalan public debt is classified as a garbage bond by rating agencies; it has a total dependence, therefore, on the solidarity of all Spaniards. This situation, which is the result of their mismanagement, is already serious enough to justify having to be protected in order to avoid their neglect. And I remind you that a moment came when you were unable to meet your responsibilities, unable to pay the pharmacies, unable to meet the officials. And now let us address the second of the elements. And it's that the misuse you make of public money requires strict control. And, far from relaxing these control mechanisms, we consider that they should be increased, in defense of the general interest. And it is that you live out of reality, and that is why you are surprised that a top-level democracy, such as Spain, has the responsibility to control the use of public resources made by its representatives in Catalonia. You are disloyal to Catalonia because you are disloyal to Spain; you are disloyal to citizenship at the same time you decide to skip the laws that we have all given ourselves. There are already almost fifty public offices linked to the proceedings and some of them condemned for misappropriation of public revenues; for illegally using the resources of all; because, instead of allocating them to the needs of the citizens, instead of allocating them to health, education or social services, what they do is to dilapidate them in their performances, in their apparatus of separatist diffusion, in embassies, with the sole objective of speaking badly of our country, of speaking badly of Spain, on trips, in chiringuitos – yes, in chiringuitos – in centmilleuristas from eight. Resources they use to tear up Catalan society without any kind of scruple. They have used them to break families and friendships, they have used them to expel many Catalans from Catalonia, fed up with their contempt. And from an economic point of view, more than five thousand companies have already fled. And days and years pass, and companies don't come back. And that means that every passing day increases the risk of their decision-making centres and production centres being displaced, as the vice president himself acknowledged. And are they offended if, in view of this picture, in view of this lack of respect for the legal framework, greater controls are needed? Gentlemen of the Republican Left, we are the offended who suffer their disrespect, those who suffer their contempt. And the additional controls are legitimate controls on a rule of law that they continue to try to end our democracy. Yesterday the president himself verbalized it: « We will do it again. Is that the only message? That is the only proposal that the President of the Generalitat has and that you have. « We will do it again. They have broken down Catalan society, they are damaging the economy, and yet the only message they have for Catalans as of June 2019 is: « Ho returnm a fer. I don't know if Mr. Sanchez's mortgage with you includes removing these controls from him, I don't know. But what I do assure you is that from our parliamentary group we will continue to exercise, as we have so far, strict control, and we will do so despite their lack of transparency. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.75.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, to fix his position, the deputy Maria Sirvent, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.76.0	Well, good morning. When we read this proposal we could not believe it, we were absolutely puzzled. Ask the State to withdraw this intervention. Why? We thought, maybe they'll explain to us why..., so why is it a shame! Because it's a provocation for the popular classes and the majority of the workers, you're independent and you're not independent! It's just that we're told the State which are the fundamental rights and which are not, and how we can spend our money and how we can't spend it, and putting banks in front of people! It's that what I'm listening to, this frontism between independentists and non-independentists respects this point, I don't understand it. I don't understand it, because the most affected by this intervention is the majority worker, the whole majority worker, regardless of their political option! And you're here saying that they're advanced students and that they've completed the goals of stabilising the deficit, the debt and the expense. Another provocation for most workers! And he's happy to have gone from the FLA to the Fons de Facilitat Financera. "It is that, look, now in accounts to control our state will control our financial markets. As if the financial markets don't have any control mechanisms on this chamber! That you don't remember the bank bailout of 61,000_million euros? , of the 40,000_million euros pardoned to the bank? What a shame, that today they are facing each other between a bandol and another for something that affects the entire working class of this country! Remember yesterday Mr. Cuixart talking about the excess of obedience; that's what happened here. "The more we gave in, the more we listened, the worse they treated us," said Rosa Parks, "and that's what's going on in this Parliament. An excess of obedience, obeying standards that run counter to the majority of workers in this country, of those people you are completely disconnected from while making these triflings between banners, while dealing with things that do not affect people. That does affect the people. This is a hair socket, a sovereign grip, a decision-making grip of this Parliament. And there's enough banks to handle, there's enough, because, in the end, we'll end up in a situation of misery all of us, we'll end up in a situation that won't be reversible, and there's no one up here to give an answer. She's a disgrace. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.77.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of the deputy Santi Rodríguez, of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.78.0	Thank you, Vice President. From the last intervention we just felt right now, until I can still share some expression, which is surely what motivates the reason that we were up here today: there has been a loss of sovereignty in the matter of financing. That's right. Now, who are the causes? The causes are the high debt that left a government, the tripartite – PSC, Esquerra and Initiative – and that, therefore, has to be resolved in one way or another, because they have deteriorated the markets in such a way that they have qualified the Generality's debt of good rubble and, therefore, the markets have been shut down. And, if you remember, the famous patriots that the Montilla government issued had to finish feeling paid for Montoro – for Montoro, not as per person, obviously, right? , but as Minister of the Government of Spain –, because the Generalitat did not have the capacity to pay those good patriots who had emerged. And, therefore, the loss of financial sovereignty of the Generalitat, the fruit of the proper actions of the succeeding governments of the Generalitat, gave place to the financing mechanisms, which mass hardly must have gone, because, when there was no financing in the markets, the Generalitat obtained, obtained and continued to obtain, until 31 December 2018, 64,000_million. Well, it's not bad. The type of interest – when the markets were at 6_per_cent, the good patriots were at 4 and mig, 5.25, 5 and mig –, 2015, at 0_per_cent, and from 2015 onwards, at 0.834_per_cent. Mass barely went. And all that, why? To pay for the generality's debt, but also to pay for public services, mainly health expenses. But what did we get from before? Before we've had the complacency – it's already been mentioned – but I'll still be more explicit: and the lie. Because this additional intervention that you today want to raise is produced for lying. When the Government of the Generality took the money from the fund to pay, for example, the pharmacies, he went to the pharmacists and said: "You do not charge because the Government does not pay, when the Government of the Generality did what it did to collect and pay other things other than what had been purchased. And that's why there was this intervention. And that's why we believe that, to guarantee public services...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.79.0	Vagi ending, Mr. Rodriguez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.80.0	...to guarantee the services to most of the workers in Catalonia and most of the Catalans, we would vote against raising this intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.81.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Finally, to fix his position, it is the return of deputy Jordi Munell, of the Group of Joints for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.82.0	Thank you, President. In this case, a lot of things have been said and some beasts have even been said, haven't they? In short, here it seems that there are banners, one side and another, when it seems to me that what we should all do is defend the citizens of Catalonia, that the citizens of Catalonia do not deserve, therefore, to have this tax burden that our country has for years and years, right? In fact, if there is no such fiscal burden, surely we have not arrived, therefore, from the 11th, 12th, 13th or 15th, at this first intervention, in fact, in fact, of the Government of the Government of Catalonia through its accounts. In fact, it is the first intervention on the sovereignty of our country, on the sovereignty of our presupposition, on the sovereignty even of Parliament and, therefore, on the sovereignty of the citizens who chose Parliament. This is not on the sidelines, we should all be on the same side, defending the citizens of Catalonia and their rights through a fair taxation that you allow, therefore, the government chooses, and, through Parliament, the approved assumption, to be able to administer the money. When these moneys aren't there, because they're gone and they're not coming back, it's when it appears, so, this administration of misery, huh? And, therefore, this doesn't go hand in hand, it goes from citizens, people, and from Catalonia, companies of different political groups. As I said, 2015, we were going to see a first 155. Surely not over everything that went after, but already from, therefore, surely, the popular consultation of the 9-N, the State raised the ears and actually forced, in fact, a situation that, since 2010, with the feeling against the State, has gone into confession, that it is the progressive olegament of the Catalan economy as the formula for..., well, therefore, to dilute – to dilute –, therefore, the strength or hope of Catalanity or even this whole spirit of sovereignty, right? And that's what it is, how? So this, trying to make a deficit object that can't stand, or that, about the liquidity that offers autonomy, from a heaviness, as I said before, fiscal, more and more and it takes interest from the money, that they are Catalans, that we have paid them, that they don't come back, they leave you and they still take interest. And, therefore, this, in 2015, certainly accompanied by the financial economic situation, so, is the perfect excuse for the State, through this presidential decree, huh? , to intervene in the accounts of the Generality. Let's just remember that these moneys that lend us from those that advance Catalonia, so we cost us interest, huh? ; it is reckoned that we have paid more than 2,600_million euros of interest to the State, but that, moreover, as we say, sets objectives which, because of the way the Catalan economy could work, cannot be reached, or, as has also been said, a completely unjust financing model, huh? : with this autonomous model, regardless of the fiscal deficit, the one that returns to Catalonia is at the bottom of what is its population or its GDP, eh? And, so, here, in the background, we go back to the one we've always been, to which the State has been carrying us long ago, huh? I'm going back to referring, as we say, to social or employment policies, huh? ; for example, therefore, to the reduction made by the State of contributions to the Law of Dependence, to active employment policies or, for example, to the limitation of energy-poor aid, eh? , or, for example, therefore, to the special work centres, to the gathering of refugees, to university scholarships, to the universal basic assistance, etc.; at all events of the different policies, to reach the infrastructures, we would find this black hand of the State that led us to what would touch the citizens of Catalonia. And the perfect excuse: when we don't get there to donate services or lend everything we have to lend, it's when it's great for the state to make this 155-accredited or 155-economic intervention in 2015. At this point in time, we need to be able to manage and decide again, with our own sovereignty and control of this Parliament, where we spend Catalan money to serve Catalans, without this black hand of the State behind our hands in the box. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.83.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy Adriana Delgado.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.84.0	Yes, thank you, Vice President. To see, therefore, to answer the questions, first of all, as did Mr Cid, therefore, we have accepted and negotiated with Catalonia in Commu to reiterate the complaint of economic limitations, in the case of the municipalities in particular, to demand the repeal of the LRSAL and for a tax reform that we believe must be redistributive and sustainable. I also answer that we are defending – and the vice president has reiterated this also to the Circle – that what it is going to do is to defend all the resources of the citizens of Catalonia until the last euro, and that does not create bandols, but it is also for the benefit of all the citizens. And, moreover, this defense does not replace in any case the political negotiation on the future of Catalonia. To the PSC. Mrs. Romero, I was talking about your two exams. I think that with one of them it was clear that they were not looking for a possible transaction but changing the subject, because they are uncomfortable. In fact, about the one point that we presented to the judge, he didn't talk about it. And on the other side of the coin, he said it was the same as the commons', it's not the same. I think that putting into the market is much more forceful than not starting processes and proposing, talking about the assumptions 2019. The rules are for everyone, I said; but what we are asking for precisely in this motion is to delete an ad hoc rule created to punish Catalonia; it is not for everyone, it is to punish Catalonia. I, lastly, to Ciutadans. Obviously, we are in the antipodes of what we are asking for, we are looking for each other; we are defending the sovereignty of Parliament, the independence of Catalonia, the freedom of those who work legitimately to achieve it, and I would also ask that we may be too dramatic with families, that even the president of the Catalan Civil Society has voted for the municipalities Esquerra Republicana, because they are family. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.85.0	Thank you. [[Long break. Alice Romero Llano asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.86.0	Yes, Mrs Romero; separate vote?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.87.0	Vote separate from points 1 and 2. I wanted fifteen seconds for contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.88.0	One and two...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.89.0	Separate, 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.90.0	En bloc?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.91.0	No, separate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.92.0	Ah, separated. One and two. All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.93.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.94.0	Fifteen seconds. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.95.0	Yeah. I wanted to tell Mr Santi Rodríguez and some other Member who also said that, when Mr Montilla left the Government of the Generality, the debt was EUR 24,000_million. Do they know who the debt is right now? About 80,000. Left Republican, PDECAT, Convergence, Junts for Catalonia : 24 to 80,000. [[Greetings.]] See if you're looking at the numbers and know how to count and subtract, not like Mrs. Budo, and see who did it. [[remorse of the voice]] Actually the debt of the Generality is Convergence and Republican Left. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.96.0	Mrs. Romero... thank you. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.97.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.98.0	For allusions...? [[Pause.]] Fifteen seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.99.0	Thank you. In any case, I really recognize that this is true, and, as a result of the debt the tripartite left behind, it enters the spiral of the debt that brings us to the current 80,000_million. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] In any case, you will recognize me that the 3,000_million good patriots that were issued by the Montilla government who ended up paying them was the People's Party government and Minister Montoro. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.100.0	All right. [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Roldan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.101.0	To ask for separate vote also from point 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.102.0	Three, all right. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] For now, what we have is 1, 2, 3, each of these points separately, and from the rest of the young man... I think there's only one other point left, the fourth, right? [[Pause.]] Therefore, we vote all points separately. The vote on point number 1 begins. Point 1 was approved by 71 votes to 57, with no abstentions and four Members present who did not vote. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 69 votes to 4, 55 abstentions and 4 Members or Members present who have not voted. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved for 89 votes in favour, 40 against, no abstentions and 4 Members who have not voted. Let's go now and vote for the quarter point and get past this young man. The vote begins. This point has been approved by 89 votes to 4, 36 abstentions and 4 Members or Members present who have not voted. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the management of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation]] [[302-0112/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, which is the following motion, the motion following the question to the Government about the management of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, to expose it has the word Mr David Mejía.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.103.0	Thank you, President. Diputats..., what a pity that there is no councillor... This motion would not be necessary if we had a government and a public television that were for all citizens, but unfortunately we have to denounce again the irresponsibility of the Government, which systematically degrades the public media, making them the media arm of the process. Because TV3 manipulates, yes, every day, and we will not tire of repeating it, because Catalans deserve an objective public television, a neutral and quality public television, and now we don't have it. But the worst of all is that it manipulates with the impulse of the Government, either by injecting more money than budgeted – which, by the way, is 230_million_euros –, prioritizing agitation and propaganda to the social needs of Catalans, or by putting managers with a political party card and working for their supreme cause. Look, we have public media leaders charged with disobedience, apart from reprobates by this Parliament of Catalonia, and it is obvious that they were a necessary element for the coup against democracy that we suffered in Catalonia. And, according to Mr Torra's words over the last week, it is clear that they will try again. Worst of all, these leaders, to whom we pay all the citizens of Catalonia, have not explained to us, for example, whether they had orders from the previous Department of Presidency to spread the propaganda of the illegal referendum of 1 October or what the cost of such publicity was. But the truth is that we are not surprised either, because the transparency of this government is like Mr Torra's republic: it does not exist. Another of the issues we are talking about in this motion is the instrumentalization of the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia, once an organization that should represent all citizens and that acts for partisan interests and as a whitener of propaganda that constantly and daily broadcast TV3 and Catalonia Radio. That's right, our money costs us. Look, if she were Councilwoman Budó, who distorts reality and sees separatist majorities that do not exist and that live in this parallel reality of Mr. Torra, she would ask her for responsibility in the management of her competences, because the media depend on Mrs. Budó's department – which is certainly not listening to this motion. You can't keep acting like nothing happens, because it really happens, and a lot. And it's also very serious. It is a scandal that in democracy a public television is condemned up to four times for favoring independence candidates in the elections. But TV3 doesn't even bother to conceal its treatment of favor to separatism: in the campaign we had to denounce before the JEC the broadcast of Junqueras' gold minute or, for example, absolutely partisan reports, which had to be compensated with minutes of television to the different constitutionalist parties. This is, unfortunately, Mr. Torra's Catalonia, where public television is teleprocess and is the Great Brother of the Process; where public institutions are a showcase for the posters of their candidates, of the independence candidates, and where public parks are a container where to deposit the yellow bonds. Look, gentlemen of the Government, I'm going to teach you something that you and your colleagues don't like very much, but..., which is the framework that protects the rights and freedoms of all citizens: the Spanish Constitution [[remorse of the voice]] , which recognizes us the right to receive truthful information. What I would ask you to do is please stop subsidizing the lies of the process and start offering a quality public service, which is the mission of the public media. Because these means cost us a lot of money and, since we pay all Catalans, the least we can expect is for their content to be truthful and respectful of the plurality of our society. Otherwise, TV3 will continue to be, as hitherto, a private separatist and separatist club. Stop advertising and start reporting objectively to all Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.104.0	Thank you, Congressman. As long as no papers have been submitted, let's go straight to the turn of speeches by parliamentary groups to fix their position. And in the first place has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr David Pérez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.105.0	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, gentlemen, honourable Members, I suppose you won't be surprised that we are voting against the assembly of the motion, mainly because the inquiry was taken advantage of to charge against the Socialist Party and its pacts, right? , the left-wing pacts and the common pacts at the time of the tripartite. You said: "What could go wrong at that time? What could go wrong? Well, so... what went wrong? That we made a law that called for the media, governance and the media to be approved by this Parliament by two thirds of Parliament. This, Mr. David Mejía, was done by the tripartite. The tripartite made a corporate governance system that established the program contract. The last program contract was made by the tripartite. Since then, the subject has not been discussed again. What could go wrong at the time? For TV3 was the reference television for both those who considered themselves sovereignists and independentists and those who did not. It was our first television. Today is the fifth reference television. You will say: "Yes, but the motion has nothing to do with this. Yes, but the interpellation does, and I too have the right to defend myself when someone mocks my party's policy of pacts with regard to the media. I won't talk about your pact policy – I won't talk about your pact policy. In any case, I would remind you or ask you to read the last article of Mr. Francesc de Carreras, who was founder of Citizens, entitled « Estimat Albert. Let's go to the motion. What does article 24.2 of that Constitution say that you have taught? What's it say? Do you know? Do you know what he says? Principle of presumption of innocence: that everyone has the right to be innocent until proven otherwise. And his motion and his interpellation are precisely in the absolutely opposite direction. Let us hope that there will be a judge who says whether the current legal order has been overturned—point 1—if there has been a criminal organization, which I believe has already said no—point 2—if there has been a criminal organization, which has already said no—point 3—if we are an instrument or if we are an instrument for the execution of crimes...All this has not yet been judged, and we believe in the presumption of innocence. And the motion judges and executes. And there is another principle in that Constitution that you have, 1173, the principle of separation of powers: the judges and courts are the judges, not the parliaments – not the parliaments. Whoever decides whether a person is guilty or not is the parliaments, Mr Mejía. With us you can seek consensus..., no, no: with us you can seek consensus whenever you want, and we have shown it to you, and we have voted in favour many times, on many issues, of many motions. The list is very long, of the points that we have voted with you in favour, on all the issues. What the public media of the Generalitat need at this time is for the opposition to make opposition, as you do and as we do in the control committee. Harder than we have been with Mrs Llorach or Mr Sanchis; harder than I have with Mr Saul Gordillo, it has been no one. We do opposition where he plays. And a second thing that touches: consensus. The media of the Generalitat now need consensus, consensus of the parliamentary groups. We have once demonstrated in this Parliament that all parliamentary groups have been able to reach agreements on corporate matters. That is the line, and I think, I think sincerely, I think, Mr Mejías, that the motion you are presenting here today does not go in the direction of establishing consensus, which is so necessary in the media. Thank you very much, Mr President, Madam Counsellor, Mr Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.106.0	Thank you, Congressman. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susana Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.107.0	Thank you. Well, then, let's do it again. Actually, with the theme of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group has entered an insistent loop, insisting: it is the fourth place since the disembarkation on the same theme, with the same focus practically, almost all with the same, with the same content and with similar results, and with this deed to try to hinder it all and block it all. We in previous motions tried to pose constructively, and in some respects we can coincide; but, ultimately, every time less. It is you who signed the Frankenstein accord with Juntes for Cat, Esquerra and the Socialist Party, at the beginning of this legislature, to renew the governing council of the « body with pacts of defeats. They then demarcated, yes, and began a new offensive with more force and strength against the plurality and supposed instrumentalization of the Catalan public media. We were indeed pleased that the agreement is broken and is not distributed in terms of the charges and the law that has to regulate a more democratic and plural mechanism for the election of the governing bodies of the Catalan public media. That's why we're going to tell them again the same thing we've already told them once and for another, since the young man talks about the same thing once and for another, and that's what the professionals and professionals of the public media say in a manifesto approved for the assembly of TV3 and Catalunya Radio workers and workers. "For the last few years, the corporation has suffered from the internal wars of the governing parties and the virulent attacks on the part of the parliamentary opposition. This pressure undermines the credibility of television and public radio, and it has to end. And it is that what the workers and professionals of the Catalan public media want and need is to be able to do their work in peace, without pressure, with peace of mind, with professional and journalistic criteria. And what they don't need is more fires, more instrumentalization, and we stick to the process of law that must guarantee these more independent, pluralistic and more open media to the citizenry. For this reason, less judicialization and more defense of the contract program that must guarantee a more stable and future financing, than giving political independence of truth to the Catalan media. Here is the priority, this should be the priority of this Parliament: we make efforts and deal with the law that must change the governance mechanisms of public communication media as quickly as possible. And what's not the priority is to continue using them as the trigger weapon, for arsonist proclamations that speak of criminal organization, agitation, separatist propaganda, state-of-the-art instruments... True Cretan – true Cretan, eh? – that with this type of motion you are contributing to the plurality of information, to improve the content and the plurality and the ability of the Catalan public media to reach the entire city of Catalonia? I ask them sincerely: do they really think that's what it's for? That's what they say you want. Do they really think this helps the right to information and communication? If you think, with this kind of young man... that helps. Before yesterday the number 13 judge of Barcelona refused to prosecute for criminal organization the direction of TV3, Catràdio and the corporation, among others. If, as you say, they respect judicial decisions – and they say it once and for all – they should have self-explanatory and withdrawn this motion. It should have been consistent and consistent with a judicial resolution. But it's really tired, it's tired, it's tired, it's tired, or so, you insist on moving your confrontational speech, your cohabitation speech, your speech to pursue communication, education, the streets... but they don't get caught up. It is that we insist – well, after they see the signs of the votes – that every time they try these speeches they are left alone. When they make constructive proposals and they can work and move forward in policies, we find ourselves. We won't find ourselves in these things. Better to think about what his role is in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.108.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the paragraph of the MP Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.109.0	Thank you. Good morning again. It is found with constructive proposals, but also at the Barcelona Assembly. Well, it's already said today, about, another time, a young woman who places public media at the point of view. To try not to repeat me, because in the end you too are repeated and, then, we also repeat ourselves and it is like a very tired loop, if I may be allowed informality. And, therefore, what I'm going to do is read one of the cards that the corporate committee of public media workers and workers specifically addressed to you. I don't speak in the proper name anymore, I don't speak in the name of the CUP anymore, so I'm trying to be a transmitter around here to share the positions of the company committee. « Mr. Chairman of the Commission for the Control of the Activities of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, benvolgut David Mejía, the representatives of the workers of the media of the body......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These types of demonstrations create a climate, encouraged by some political formations, that is threatening for the workers and workers of the media who make our work under a pressure and a dangerous hostility, that has proved on various occasions in the last months: we have suffered attacks on our own and mobile units, the film crews have returned to the shots during the live connections. And more recently, a Telemadrid company was written to confound him for a TV3 camera. After TV3's interview with Ciutadans leader Albert Rivera, he made some tough accusations, according to our father, and which are unjustifiable and arsonist, they are going to go deeper in this line of checking out the media and professionals we work on, denigrating us without making any arguments. You can't go on like this. We claim that the control committee, from the presidency and from the Bureau, complains to the political leaders that they pose and no longer act on the fire of social crisis, in genal, and against the media and their workers and workers, in particular. We claim criticisms and assessments of media work is done to the parliamentary control committee with the aim of doing some better media. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And I'm done, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.110.0	Yes, Congresswoman, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.111.0	"We claim that Parliament renews its approach to the Corporate Governance Council. In short, we claim that it is leaving the media of the corporation out of the political battle. You don't listen to us anymore, you listen to us...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.112.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.113.0	...to the workers of the public media, Mr. David Mejía.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.114.0	Thank you. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr Daniel Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.115.0	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is that for one reason or another the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation ends up being a topic of debate, not only in its corresponding committee, but also in this plenary session. Debates, the vast majority, promoted by the opposition and not precisely to praise the management of the Audiovisual Media Corporation. It is true that the procedural situation of the highest officials of the public television and radio corporation was not only worrying but also disturbing. But justice must be left to work. The presumption of innocence is not only a mention that appears in the Constitution, but it is a right; it is a right that we invoke for all, also for us. Unfortunately, when we invoke it from others towards us it does not exactly happen, and it does not happen without the exception of any of the parliamentary groups present here. Let us therefore respect the presumption of innocence of all persons until a sentence is handed down. Therefore, we do not need to violate the action of justice or assault the procedural procedures to conclude that the management of the corporation is not only on the side, but also a political scandal and a disaster in its economic management. What is needed for a profound renewal and transformation is evidence and a democratic need. We are faced with an oversized monster whose size needs to be reduced: they are expensive, expensive public television and radio. It's unsustainable. And, therefore, drastic and urgent economic measures must be taken to rationalise expenditure. On the other hand, action must also be taken from the point of view of respect for pluralism, not only of identity, but also of ideological and linguistic pluralism. Linguistic too. The corporation manages a public television and radio model only for a viewer profile: the separatists, and above it comes out, I insist, very expensive. For that, from our point of view, it is much better to privatize it and you pay it. Indeed, the role of the monitoring body must be strengthened, which, with some honorable exception, is dedicated to supporting the continuing abuse of plurality from public television and radio. Changes are also needed in the style book, whose current writing becomes the perfect alibi for the separatist drift of public television and radio. In short, we share the amendment to the whole of this RDP, and yet we do not fully share point 7. Because it is true that we have been the Government of Spain – you have never been, I don't know if you will ever be – but I also tell you that, at the only parliamentary opportunity you had, you decided to call elections instead of doing what you had to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.116.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Congresswoman Raquel Sans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.117.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Councillor, MPs, MPs, today we have here again a movement from Ciutadans attacking the country's public media and its leaders. And it's not new. In fact, I'd say it's common for Ciutadans to put the country's public media in the spotlight. We have seen this during the last two election campaigns, the public media have been obsessed with it. We felt, repeated as a mantra, as his party said they would apply Article 155 to TV3; we felt as Mr. Rivera said..., more quickly threatened the country's director of public television with "cold to follow Sanchez". And, after all, Mrs. Arrimadas, in an election debate, when she knew that she could not defend, made one of these numbers that they so much appreciate, delivering a letter of resignation to Mr. Sanchis. But what happened? What happened? That the elections didn't buy them most of their political project. And what did you do after the election? So, in an act of defense of the country – because non-nationalists always defend the country – they have therefore offered to Mr. Pedro Sánchez his deputies and senators to apply another 155 to Catalonia. This is his proposal for Catalonia, also for the country's public media. And this young man precisely came from this, from his obsession to control institutions and public media. And like the polls, so, they didn't get out, now what they want is to bring it to justice. Because what they really claim to be this young man is that the prosecution can decide who's running the country's public media. What they're asking for in this young man is that he's doing a bunch of pros because the D.A. accused them of belonging to a criminal organization. One accusation, as the previous Members have already said, is so ridiculous and so weakly worded that even Barcelona's number 13 jutjat has not admitted it to trial. So, what they're asking for in this young man is that he's doing a few professionals for a few crimes for which they won't even be judged. In this case – and there are a few – you convert the prosecution's word into a divine word. Of course, the same taxation which, in the words of who was the minister of the « State keyloggers, « suits you. The same prosecution that insists that on September 20th, before his Economy, there was violence; the same prosecution that I kept after practically four months of trial, more than four hundred witnesses, four hundred videos..., has not found a single image of this violence. The same prosecution that in the most digitized history, in which everyone has a mobile phone, in which we have images of practically everything, the only image that evokes this violence are two cars of the Civil Guard full of hooks – two cars of the Civil Guard full of hooks. Actually, Tejero's coup d'état, a game of children at the side of this violence. But it's that with this young man you're going further, and as the previous deputies have also said, they're carrying one of the foundational pillars of the right-wing state, like the right to the presumption of innocence. In this Constitution he taught us, therefore, Article 24.2 makes reference; this sacrosanct Constitution also reverses the presumption of innocence. Because in this young man, and in most of his public demonstrations, you have already judged and condemned the direction of the corporation. Not just them, but also a political option, certainly legitimate and legal. They threaten us, they argue, they cling to the prosecution's accusations so they can decide who has to run the country's public media, because if they can't shut them down, well, as if they can control them. Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, until when? How far are you willing to go? How many rights are you willing to climb? I imagine you're now taking advantage of the fact that you apologized for these false accusations, because you, here in your parliamentary office, on April 11th, also spoke of the fact that the corporate directives were being processed by prevarication, misappropriation... he said here. So no, that's not it. And, therefore, you come here, lie; I imagine he will apologize. Obviously, our position is of total rebuy, I would say, frontal, to the motion they plant. Because, gentlemen of Ciutadans, the prosecution will not decide who is running the public media in this country, because our political option will not disappear and because the public media and their workers will continue to do their job with the same professionalism and rigour that they have done so far. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.118.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, it is the turn of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. The word has the deputy Josep Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.119.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, had the remote, the very remote hope that today the intervention of Citizens would begin with a petition of apology. Why? So because this young man is based on a premise that has melted like an ice in the sun. Without any respect for the presumption of innocence, you warn, disapprove, threaten, reprobate, condemn, prosecute the president of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjans Corporation, the director of TV3 and the director of Catalonia Radio. And they do it based on the prosecution's petition that is processed as a criminal organization, but it turns out that this opportunistic use has not lasted even the time between the inquiry of Congresswoman Roldán fifteen days ago to the motion of today. The judge in charge of the case, while continuing to maintain this unfair and inverse cause, has rejected the prosecution's petition to prosecute [[applause]] These people like criminal organization. But to you it's the same – the same – that reality doesn't span them a good headline. They are already inverting their opportunism, because they were able to go out on Spanish televisions talking about criminal organization, and Mrs. Roldán was able to take a break fifteen days ago to be the new Inés Arrimadas. It is only a matter of maintaining the rhetoric of destruction – even though they are not now escorting. And against the public media, their professionals and their leaders, it's still going on, huh? It's all gone, 'cause it's supposed to demonize TV3's giving them votes. They will already explain to me where, because in Catalonia it seems that no, and, per show, the results: Citizens have passed from 1,100,000 votes on 21-D to less than 300,000 votes on 26-M, three-quarters of the votes lost. If the fruits are these I must encourage them to continue like this; even if they can win votes in Cuenca, for example, with all respect for the good people of Cuenca. Vagin fent, vagin questionant« who is the leader of this band, continue to fent motions talking about « criminal organization, « disobeying the laws, « coup d'état and » that « the autonomous public media of Catalonia have become an instrument not only of agitation and separatist propaganda, but also an instrument of execution of crimes – « execution of crimes. The corporation, TV3 and Catalunya Radio have carried out crimes, so to speak, to the brave; neither call nor decide it to court, there are already Citizens to decide it with their own Penal Code. Here the only one who's a criminal, if not politically, is this young man of his. You ask how you can be directors of TV3 and Catalunya Radio people you are accused of. No, the reality is the opposite: because of being director of TV3 or Catalunya Radio and doing your job you can end up being processed with dementia charges. This is the state you're building, a repressive state. [[Greetings.]] And in this repressive state you are the necessary accomplices of the judicial system to build monstrous accounts, and your favorite victims are always: language, school and TV3, the pillars of critical thinking construction and free expression. I've told you many times before, it's not like TV3 to you, but it's the reality of the country, the reality that a majority of independenceists have set up in this country, the reality that TV3 reflects like national television that it is, not like a regional, folklore television that you would want to be or like a television that you're watching. He hasn't changed TV3, he's changed reality. Let's see if they know about this once in a while. Meanwhile, while public media cannot be closed, they are dedicated to making this unwarranted pressure on public media; a pressure that unfortunately has effects, a pressure that causes professionals to do their job with, often with fear for their physical integrity. But on a daily basis, his pressure means that those responsible for and professionals in public media do not make decisions or express themselves or report freely, not only because his esteemed Central Electoral Board prohibits words or decides who participates in debates or interviews and who does not. The worst is that his pressure makes professionals fall into self-censorship, which is the saddest and most unfortunate form of censorship. That is unacceptable, that is reprehensible, that is condemnable, that in a free country would be criminal. This is where we won't pass, and you won't pass. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.120.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. [[Long break. Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.121.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 7.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.122.0	The 7th? [[Pause.]] All right. Any more petitions? Don't you? [[Pause.]] We shall vote, therefore, first on point 7 of this motion and then on the rest of points. The vote on Point 7 begins. The seven-point was rejected by 35 votes in favour, 97 against and no abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 40 votes in favour, 93 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into emergence services]] [[302-00113/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, which is the motion following the question to the Government about the services of emergencies, motion presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú May. In order to present it, Mr. Marc Parés has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.123.0	Well, good morning, President. Counsel, Members, Members, we present this motion because we have found that the differences in the emergence services of Catalonia are in a critical situation, many of them at the limit of the col·lapse. And we arrive here after a lost decade, a decade where the flaps have not been reversed, a decade of disinvestment in infrastructure, equipment, materials, a decade without a call for seats. And we've seen it in the Bomber Coss, the Squad Coss, the Rural Agents Coss, the Medical Emergencies System, all of them. And tomorrow the forest fire campaign begins. And we believe that, before this situation, it was urgently necessary to apply a plan of action to equip the different parts and structures of Catalonia's emergence services with the human resources, technical means and infrastructures that are needed for them, because this will be a much more complicated one than the one of the previous year. Well, in fact, we don't just believe it; in fact, you say, it's a sham, too, you say, the report of the Greuges Synod that was published a few weeks ago. A few days ago, Councillor Buch and Councillor Jordà, in their parliamentary office, presented to us the arrangement of the forest campaign and spoke to us about the critical situation of the forests, the importance of prevention through forest management, the deseasonalization of fires as a consequence of climate change – we have seen, in fact, this very end of the week with the fire of Perelló, and I want to take advantage of a better shot to aggravate the good work done for the Bomber Cos and for the rest of the emergencies services – and also spoke to them, the councillors, of a new model of Bombers, who were more proactive than reacting. Look, we have this new focus, this focus, we fully share it. The problem is that the situation from which we are leaving is a very small situation, that in these past two years we have placed the services of emergencies, like so many other public services of the country, in a very small situation. And, therefore, that what was urgently needed was to solve a series of problems, a series of questions to face the summer campaign, which we believe have not been resolved satisfactorily. We know, in our knowledge, that they are working there and that they have good planning tools, such as the Bombers 2025 project; what is needed, however, is to deploy them, to raise resources. Because we already had a strategic plan, the Strategic Plan 2017-2022, where all these problems were identified and a series of necessary measures were planned. But the problem is that the plan failed, that it did not apply, that it did not get a single euro. In order to address the problem of sources, which is model, which is structural, and I believe that we share this, we propose to promote a national pact of the Catalan Emergence System that involves all institutions, parliamentary groups, affected actors, a country pact, because that is why it is a country response – bring you, for the sake of mentioning it there, since I have it here–; a pact, deia, that redefines the Catalan Emergence System, analyzing and coordinating the role of all actors, including those actors who do not directly fall within the Department of Interior, such as the Rural Agents' System or the Model Emergence System, and coordinating the role of all actors, including those actors who do not directly fall within the Department of Interior, such as the Rural Agents' Map, or the System of Medician Emergences, a country pact, that excludes the deprivation of privacy from the full or partial use of the land map, such as the Rural Agents's Map or the Template, which is intended to be used in the context of the context of a country, or in the context of a country, or in the context of the context of the context of the context that the context of the context of the context of a country, that we use of a country, or in which we use of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of a country, that we use of the context of a country, or of a country, or of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of the context of the problem, of the context of the context of the context of the problem, of the context of the context of the problem, of the context of the problem, of the problem, of the problem, of the problem, of the problem, that we. And here I call a change of perspective. It is necessary to provide more resources for the Department of Agriculture for forestry management, to promote extensive branching, to preserve the agroforestry mosaic of the Mediterranean landscapes. We also propose to review the model of the 112 trick system, and also here we accept the items that have been presented to improve the text. And for what it does to the Medical Emergencies System, the SEM, it is an essential service and its workers and workers, here today, deserve a wage increase like that of the rest of the public employees of the Generality, no less or less, on all wage concepts, and equal for all professional categories. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.124.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, and to defend the papers presented, has the word Mrs Montserrat Fornells.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.125.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone. First of all, thank Deputy Marc Parés for his willingness to negotiate and for his willingness to reach agreements; we have been able to negotiate and reach agreements at some point, but it has not been possible at others. This is a case of emergencies where the different areas of our country's emergencies are discussed and dealt with: the Bomber Coss, the Moss Coss, Rural Agents, 112 and the SEM. I would also like to take advantage of the task and the work done by all the professionals in these areas, and also to give support to the lives and to the people who worked in the fire, in the fire of the Perelló. On behalf of our group, we will vote in favour of most of the points of this motion, because we agree and also because the government is working there, in many of them, and some others cannot be supported. For example, we can't give support to point 1 because it doesn't feel and it's absolutely unrealizable to make a plan of the different bodies and emergencies for the forest campaign hinterland, predicted for this week, forecast for tomorrow. It's completely unrealizable. And so we can't give support to this point. In fact, Councillor Buch and Councillor Jordan in the previous Committee of the Interior have already come to explain to us the Fire Prevention and Extinguishing Program that the Government has developed and planned for this forest campaign. Therefore, it is a mere declaration of will and it is impossible to achieve a plan of defeat tomorrow. We agree on the subject of promoting a new emergence plan, a new national emergence service pact, which involves all those affected, and which is the result of which should be the new law of emergence in Catalonia, and which addresses the issue of emergence in an integral way. For what our group has said at Bombers 2025, it has been stated on various occasions, both in committee and in plenary session, that it is necessary and urgent to develop and implement this plan at Bombers 2025 to address the critical situation and the deficiencies and needs they have at the Bombers Cos and to allocate more firefighters, in order to renew the parks, renew the costumes, material and theme of the vehicle park. In fact, the government is already working on it, in this sense. 250 new fire stations have been called and with the will to call it up to a thousand in the next four years. Since it can't be any other way, we'll also support the fact that we help incorporate the women into the Bomber Cos, with a review of the access bases to it. For what it does to the Rural Agents Cos, we have also manifested on various occasions, that we agree to elaborate this strategic plan of the cos; it is necessary at all in order to dignify the cos and so as to improve the conditions and equip it with the economic and human needs and resources that are lacking in the Rural Agents Cos. In fact, Councilwoman Jordan has already said in the previous Committee on the Interior that this strategic plan will be approved by the government. For what it does to this point of the Rural Agents' Cos, a statement from the Ciutadans Group has been accepted for which it refers to the issue of weapons. Here I would like to give a special address to the members of the Socialist Party, since they have asked for authorization, since August 2007, on the issue of weapons, the Ministry of Interior and the Civil Guard, and there is still no answer. Therefore, if there is no answer in this sense, it will hardly be possible to control and inspect hunting by rural agents. About 112, we agree that I need to review the new model and dignify the working conditions of your staff. For what it does to the SEM, to the Service of Medical Emergencies, we also agree that it is declared as essential service as soon as possible, to facilitate a better, more effective and more efficient performance. Here we have tried to reach an agreement at a point and it has not been possible, but, well, we agree on the increase of the salary mass of 2.25_per_cent, plus the increase according to the GDP marked by Decree 3/2019. And we also want to do this... because we can guarantee that there are no extra-judicial dislocation episodes, because... we will not vote for this point, basically because the Mossos act solely and exclusively when there is a court order. And, finally, to wish that... we all want you to have some emergence services in our country of quality and models, that they are the ones that citizens deserve, and, therefore, we need to work with them to make it possible. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.126.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr Ferran Roquer has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.127.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselor..., well, congressman, I, to begin the intervention, donated that I come to represent one of the groups that supports the government, would give thanks to present this young man, because it will allow us to explain what the Department of Interior does in general and what it does with the emergence systems in particular. We will vote in favour of most points of his motion, so that in some we will not be able to, and thank him for his willingness and willingness to deal with some points. Well, we're being asked to apply urgently, before the forest fire campaign, a shoal of shoal. The forest fire campaign begins tomorrow, and Councillor Buch and Councillor Jordan came to the Commission of the Interior and explained to us what the 2019 forest campaign was like, and they made us see that it could be a hard time for him to make fires, because we had a long, warm and dry winter. In fact, they also tell us that this year we are carrying more cremated hectares than in the whole year 2018, in which we are carrying 2019. And refer to the critical situation of the forests, refer to the deseasonalization of fires in the face of climate change, and refer to a new model of firefighters, model 2025, which all the presuppositional difficulties – and I will refer to it further – are implementing many of the agreements. It is not new if I tell them that in the Mediterranean climate of Catalonia there has been, there will be fires. Therefore, what we have to do is limit the number of dignitaries – in this sense, the Rural Agents' Centre is doing a great job – and that, if there are ignitions, they can face quickly because these have the slightest possible effects. And the plan of the forest campaign, they say, consisted of 17_millions of the Department of Interior and 16_millions of the Department of Agriculture, above all, 6,300,000_euros in personnel expenses, 1,500 in compensation to volunteer firefighters or 8,2_millions per air firefighters, which add up to 761 vehicles, 25 helicopters, 12 aircraft, 717 contracted persons, 74 parks of professional firefighters opened each day, 76 parks of volunteer firefighters opened each day, 49 towers of gaita, 5 cameras or day analysis of the forest risk to act proactively and kill the strategically operated media, in such a way that, if you produce an ignition, you can act quickly there, that is not a fire. They called for a national Emergence System Pact involving the various agents, asked us to redefine the Catalan Emergence System, and asked us to draw up a draft Emergence Law for Catalonia. Well, Councilman Buch, makes a couple of months, to my own question here, announced that past the electoral cycle – which ended on May 26 – the Government would push a draft law of emergencies in Catalonia to address the emergence in an integral way and that it would provide civil protection, 112, volunteer firefighters and professional firefighters. Well, on June 3rd, we met with the board of directors of the Interior Commission with the technical staff of the board of directors, and they explained to us who would be serious about the basics that would define the future law of emergencies in Catalonia. Naturally, we would vote in favour of point 2.6, so as to encourage the incorporation of women into a body as masculinized as Bombers is. And you were also talking about the implementation of resources, the need for resources to implement Project Bombers 2025. Well, 250 seats have been called, of a thousand that will be called before 2022, and one hundred and fifty that are already in progress. There was an internal promotion: 117 corporals, 63 sergeants, 50 officers. Two heavy rural bombs have been bought, at a cost of 40 million. It reached the agreement of firefighters between the Bombers Unions and the Interior Department, which lowers the number of hours: from the current 1,790 to 1,640 in 2022, one hundred and fifty hours less. Increases the price of the extraordinary hour. It complements the coverage of minimums to parks and other operating units. In short, the majority, the vast majority of things that you ask of us are being done or are being done, for which we will vote in favour of the majority of points of your young lady. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.128.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Jean Castel has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.129.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, councillors, deputies, deputies, in the first place agrarian the motion to the Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, and agrarian also, in the same way, to the deputy Marc Parés the fast one, right? , on the understanding that we have found in the points that are common sense, responsibility and compromise, also with the collectivities that deserve it and have claimed it for a long time. Miri, three things we've been able to incorporate..., please the quickie, as I said. A transaction, which I also want to thank the Junta Group for Catalonia and the Republican Left, which we have been able to reach this agreement as well, where we tax and mark the times as well. I mean, responsibility and compromise, for the first time you've compromised it at this point. And since it can't be any other way, we couldn't come to an agreement... and I want to start with the two issues where we couldn't come to an agreement. In this sense it was the theme 3: when we talked about Seprona, someone wanted to absorb the competitions, which is what the young man asked for, and what we said and wanted was better cooperation and coordination. We understand that it is very well defined in our Constitution when we talk about competitions derived from autonomous communities, and environmental management is one of them, but it must also be shared, and, where there are two sectors working, it is better times than one, right? And Eminence 5, where we asked for a new protocol. And in this sense, I hope that the counselor – who also knows and knows that he is working with the Emergencies Law – will come out, that between this future and this new law..., a protocol of a procedure for great emergencies; coordination with all those who, when there is a great emergence, we need. Well, I'll talk about Emena 1, which we were able to approve in the first instance, which was the one that most effectively demanded in the fire parks, but visualizing the territorial distribution and the workload that these parks also have. The question 2, which we also want to thank for the transaction, which, as I said, somehow reduces the economic recourse, which is what will allow us to see the reality and also give out and light to a problem that we have when we talk about rural agents. The incorporation of alarm also, this message to the Socialist Party, this incorporation of alarm, and also to individually equip all that is the equipment that provides guarantee to the work that our rural agents do every day. That said, integrate also the Emena 4, the 080, which is the number of the center of Bombers of Barcelona, and the 092, of the Urban Guard, between 112. Why? To complement what the Council of Europe directive of 29 July 1991 calls for, something as simple as adapting and effectively regulating something we had pending. And lastly, I want to thank the 112 and SEM workers today, workers who run into problems, and today we want to put on light, guarantee and future. Illum, guarantee and future, as I say... They have been "none" – and let me say so – for lack of compromise with those agreements that had already been established, there are "no workers who do an excellent job, who do a job also, day by day, exemplary. As my partner Jorge Soler said to him in this sense, Health Spokesman..., I have heard him say many times, in defense....... as well as in what way to work in the song of these collections that bring us this work. Miri, you're going to have our whole reunion. I want to say one more time, our spokesman says it in a continuous way, I want to say again some of this phrastol: we want to pay you back to what is a waste, to what you claim, to give you agreement that we want to denounce, one more time, that they have been incomplete, and in particular that they treat you as you deserve. We want to stop feeling that there are no meths; we want to stop feeling that we have no basis on the conditions on which we should have them; we want to hear the workers who say: "We have finally come to terms with what is a waste we have. I, where there is no dialogue with the company [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out]] We have to... and we need to demand...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.130.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.131.0	...solutions. Llum, let's solve the future. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.132.0	Thank you. Next, and to fix his position, has the word in the first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Carles Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.133.0	Good morning, everybody. Well, in questions of security or police questions, we usually come out here, lately, let's say, and say, "This is at the end of the col·lapse. So no, ladies and gentlemen, it's not within the scope of the col·lapse, it's not true: we're already in the col·lapse. And we are in the danger that the system is smiling, that we reach even a point of no return, with the general situation where the emergencies are and, concretely, the things that are dedicated to the emergencies. Therefore, congratulate Marc Parés and the Group d'En Comú We can present this motion. I think she's a good young lady, with whom we generally agree, practically 100_per_cent of the points; also with the layout they make. I think, we think it touches on important structural issues, it goes to basic questions of what has actually been talked about in this Parliament, and even the whole syndic in some report has indicated that the right way was this. Sometimes things are really obvious, too, but that's not why they have to stop repeating, because we're used to the government – and I'm sorry to say it – not just pulling out the resolutions that are being taken in this Parliament and not just pulling out things that are absolutely obvious, but we think it's right to repeat them, don't we? But I want to tell you why it seems pretty unbelievable that you really have to repeat it, don't you? We are talking about taking into account the need for media; we are talking about implementing approved measures in plans such as Project Bombers 2025; we are talking about giving compliments to points already approved in Parliament. That is to say, there are specific points that speak of giving compliments to points that have already been approved in Parliament, that is to say, an absolutely vicious circle. We are talking about completing the strategic plan of rural agents, organizing the 112, that it is respecting the rights of workers and workers, too... Well, these are things that, obviously, so I would almost do a bit of shame to talk to them, but given the situation we have, I think it is very good to repeat them. And in this sense, therefore, it is true that it has already been said: there are things that have already been announced, there are things that are supposed to be done, but we believe that they must be said expressly. For example, the fire campaign; it's true that we're already out of the fire campaign. It's true that this point, then, could be a little out of time, but the response of the department was also out of time. And so, so, we think it's no longer possible to manifest that there's a shoal for the summer fire campaign a little before it's over the summer fire campaign. As for the establishment of the National Pact and the Emergence System of Catalonia, we also believe that this is the right way. It has to be talked to everyone, it has to be tried to reach agreement with all those affected to redefine the Catalan emergence system, to rule out privatization and to plan – less than planning – and to provide the means needed to end up with an Emergence Law project. It is true that the other day the department summoned us and announced that it would do precisely this, but it is no different than coming to Parliament, to indicate that we are not hanging and we are loving the department's attitude. "Strengthening the pro-active role of the body, point 2.5; favoring the presence of women at the Bombers, also seems absolutely obvious to us. Adopt in two_months the Strategic Plan of the Rural Agents' Cos; we also agree. It is true what was also said by Fornells of the use of weapons company, but we agree; we will see how it was done and at what point, but we believe that the direction we need to follow is this. The 112. We have also come out very often here to talk about the situation of 112, a service in which they are dealing, as if it were the Teleshopping, the workers and the workers, and not the Teleshopping, is an absolutely specialized service, where the people who work there put all their effort and knowledge into it. And, therefore, it is up to you to deal with this. The inclusion of the Barcelona Bombers telephone and the Urban Guard telephone between 112 is to be done with dialy, but we also believe that this has to be the final objective through the dialy. And I didn't want to end up without talking about the SEM. It is also one of those points that are absolutely obvious, to say that the point of a previously approved young person is being filled, but the department is not completing this approval; it is contradicting itself by applying an unequal pay increment to the workers, and what we want is for the pay increment to apply to everyone alike. And naturally it is declared the EMS as essential, that it is already, and it is not to be considered essential because it is, that it is already objectively and therefore this Parliament must also recognize the work that the EMS does. And that's it, thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.134.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. Mr Vidal Aragonese has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.135.0	President, to speak from the Escó. First of all, the reason for this is that something has not just worked on the Emergence Service or on the Emergence Systems, and, in this case, "something is a euphemism not to say expressly, obviously, that there are many things that do not work, basically, because of underfunding and lack of means. We want to move forward that we vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, and we think that the answer given by the government group, which is starting the campaign tomorrow, should not be a problem because this motion for a resolution can also be developed during the campaign. Another thing is that they want to find this element as output so they don't vote for it. With regard to the national pact, we are not lovers of the national pacts. First of all, because they are neither pacts nor national, they end up turning into a majority of subjects into a mere institutional declaration that they do not..., but this motion does incorporate for the national pact a whole series of elements and, therefore, we will also vote in favour of the national pact, regardless of whether we participate there or not. On the specifics of "extrajudicial dislocation, and we thus put it, among comets, we will vote for it, but we also want to say that it is not necessary to instruct or clarify why we are absolutely clear that what those companies do, with a whole series of men who do not allow some or some of their lives to leave their homes, or that even everyone wants to take the keys of their homes, with the presence of the Mosso d'Esquadra, that they do not only intervene against these companies or the people who have committed violence through these enterprises, but that they only rom in the space and sometimes accompany them, is absolutely illegal. We would, yes, taking advantage of the fact that Mr. Buch, the Councillor, is here, conveying it if in the end what he wants is to become a commercial sea of these enterprises that act absolutely unlawfully. On the question of the SEM, first, the subject of the declaration of essential service. We will vote in favour of this, but we will also say that this will not in any case be an effective and effective guarantee of performance. I can improve it, but it won't be that guarantee. And, lastly, also with the SEM, we have already voted in this Ple – and it refers to the motion – in another motion, the content for which to the salaries of the workers and the workers of the SEM, in collective bargaining, must incorporate what the Decree 3/2019 meant. We are obviously in favour of this, and we are also in favour of this addition, which is made in this motion, which incorporates "for all concepts of remuneration, in case someone was not clear. And we think that if someone doesn't make it clear, it's who, on the occupying side, represents the Administration, and that's enough.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.136.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.137.0	That they respect the rights of workers and workers and that they respect, moreover, what is the compliment of legality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.138.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Congresswoman Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.139.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, just a week ago, a mixed appearance was made between the Interior and Agriculture Councils to present this year's Fire Prevention and Extinguishing Program. And, precisely, in this presentation that was made, it was detected that this plan did not fit the reality that we had in Catalonia. I'm not saying it like the People's Party, but I'm even saying it to a person as little suspicious of ideological similarity to us as the heavyweight syndicate. And I think that this young man could be used, precisely, to deal with these shortcomings and caresses, which are practically chronic. And, although the counselor tells me no, the reality is that the lack of human and material means to the Bomber Cos is a reality that has already been reddening for decades. And the reality is that there are areas, precisely in Lleida, that is the most punished province, that have problems with the endowment of firefighters they have, because they have even more volunteer firefighters than not professional. And that's what I'm talking about sending resignation cards out of service, because they're not on human condition or material to do it, with responsibility, efficiency, dignity and security. And that happened to Almenar, to Agramunt, to Serós, to Granadella, and a few days ago. Therefore, this young man I believe will serve us to deal with this disinterest of succeeding governments, for example, with the case of the Squad Moissons. Because these incompliments come up to the point that sixty-six measures that were agreed upon after the Sant Joan's Horta Fire Research Commission, still nine years later are not implemented. We will also give recollection to the great majority of these points of this motion, especially those relating to the recovery of the purchasing power of the SEM, among other things because it is not whimsical, it is the compliment of a decree, on the 3rd of 2009, that the one that demanded and implemented is that this purchasing power is recovered..., the fruit of the detail and the freezing of the past. It's true that there are a few points you can't pick up. If the coordination, the better, the thighs, etc., but don't make it difficult for the team to move. The task of the squadron moves in a denunciation is what it is, acting by court order, and we will not further hinder the difficult task of the squadron moss coss.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.140.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the new word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.141.0	Well, first of all, thank the good predisposition of all the groups to throw in front of most of the points that we presented in this young man. I also take advantage of the fact that we have here the Agriculture Adviser, Ramaderia and Pesca, to reiterate the need that the best way to manage emergencies is to mitigate the risk, therefore, is to prevent it, therefore, is to allocate more resources to other departments, such as their department. And, therefore, to make this demand also to increase resources, which would not only serve to prevent risk, but also to fight against phenomena such as rural depopulation or other needs that we have in the rural world. We regret that we could not reach an agreement with the governing groups on the issue of the EMS, because we really believe that it is a question of justice, of respecting labour rights. And, therefore, we understand that these wage increases are to be produced in all wage concepts and in an equal manner for all professional bodies. As we also regret the complicity of some groups, which will show in the vote, with the companies that execute extra-judicial relocations. And I want to remind you here that we're talking about this, about extrajudicial denunciations. So what we're asking for is a model of police that I preserve, that I defend the rights of the vulnerable and not that I give cover to those businesses that they do is to make people out of their homes. And lastly, for what it does to the rock plan, tell them that we are certainly late – and the government is late too – but that our main discrepancy is that we think that what they presented is not a rock plan, because it has less effect than those of the past year; enlarged over time, that is true, but less effect. Because a good part of the human and material media will arrive at the month of October, November and December and, therefore, after the summer; because I kept parks with three firefighters when the minimum should be four; because I kept the Rural Agents' Cos at a minimum, until the Strategic Pla of Rural Agents that the unions wanted to have approved in May, and that we agree, therefore, that we give them two more months to be able to approve it. No more, thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.142.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak and the president gives her the word.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.143.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 7.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.144.0	All right. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.145.0	2.2 and 8.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.146.0	Together or...? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Separate, all right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mrs. Caula?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.147.0	A block that would be point number 1 and 6 ter. And, separately, also, 9.1, and we would also ask separately for 8, which I think they have already asked for.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.148.0	All right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mrs. Roldan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.149.0	Also to ask for a separate vote. 8, which has already been requested; also point 7 and the headset of point 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.150.0	All right. So, if there's no more petition, we'll start by voting for a first block that would lock in point 1 and 6 ter– 1 and 6 ter. [[Pause.]] The vote begins. Points 1 and 6b were approved by 68 votes to 64, with no abstentions. We're voting point two now, not with the subpoint but point two, huh? The encapsulation. The vote begins. The heading of item 2 was approved by 96 votes in favour, against and 36 abstentions. We're voting point 2.2 now. The vote begins. Point 2.2 was approved by 128 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved by 75 votes to 40, with 17 abstentions. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. Point 8_has been rejected by 28 votes in favour, 102 against and no abstentions. We're voting point 9.1 now. The vote begins. Point 9.1_was approved by 68 votes to 64. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved: 132 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into school segregation]] [[302-00115/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the Movement following the Government's inquiry into school segregation, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose it, has the word Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.151.0	Well, thank you, President. School pre-registration begins, it's out, and it's time to go to school, a decision that would stress most families for the differences between centers in public school, which would have to be equal, universal and free, but it turns out that's not exactly that way. One of the main problems of the teaching system in Catalonia is school segregation, first, because of the inequality between public and concerted, but now also because of the increase in the differences between the same public system. School segregation is the social imbalance that exists at the educational centres of the same barri or municipal level, i.e. in the same area schools with a high concentration of disadvantaged students and others with a more privileged social composition. When we talk about segregation, what we want to say is that there are a lot of students in a center who get very close to each other, but a lot of them at the school on the side, and they don't reflect the real society they live in. To illustrate all this with some current data. In Barcelona, students with special educational or social needs go to public centres, only one_third, to concerted centres. According to our data, our analysis, 100_percent of the agreed centres in Catalonia cover the basic quota of families, of major or lesser import, and sub-different concepts. In 63_percent of cases it is mandatory to pay the fee, regardless of whether it is formally qualified as voluntary or not. Our data, I insist, detect clear cases of discrimination, where the payment of the quota implies the exclusion of students, in 21_percent of the centres. The average base quota to which we are referring can go from EUR 860 in the most elite centres to the seventy-five in which they are not so much, with a mid-quota of EUR 246. And it should be borne in mind that the assumption that families devote to education has risen by 19_percent since the onset of the crisis, while the public contribution has fallen by 11_percent. More than 200,000 students study in centres with a high concentration of families who are in the middle of the day, who have a minimum income or who are new. [[Widow's remorse.]] I imagine that maybe it's a topic that doesn't worry too much at these times, everyone has their own urgency and priorities, but I'd preach a little silence to them. Thank you. And I'm sorry, President, that I put myself in his position...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.152.0	Continue – continue –, deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.153.0	All right. According to the pre-registration data of the 2016-2017 course, at Barcelona's innovative public schools there was only a 10_per_cent foreign student, while other proper centers, located at the same barri, had more than 25_per_cent of migrant students. If the number of school scholarships is also studied, which is another way of analysing this reality, such as the indicator of child poverty, the differences come to be up to eleven points between innovative schools and schools with a conventional system, between the same public system. This indicates that the public system does not harmonise and homogeneity, but also forms part of this market of unequal, diverse and differentiated opportunities, among which families, depending on their economic resources, their social capital, their educational level, etc., must therefore choose to acquire or buy promotional opportunities for their children. The observer and the syndic also denounced the creation of a threefold educational network, that is, a model with concerted schools, assuming 40_percent of the education system; a prestigious public school linked to innovative schools, with a strong middle class presence and a high demand, and a vulnerable public school with socially stigmatized and low demand educational projects. The machinery of school segregation, therefore, is on the march, powerful and served, and with all the consequences that this has on the scale of social segregation, and both the government and most groups of this chamber seem not to aspire to eliminate it or eradicate it, and therefore do not address structural problems, but rather aspire as much to kill it or regulate it. We, with this young man, have proposed measures to address, which attack the structural problem of school segregation. And we'll see what his will is, whether to attack the causes or follow with palliative cures. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.154.0	Thank you, Congressman. It has the word, to defend the papers presented, in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pom, the congresswoman Concepción Abellán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.155.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, the truth is that we are happy that school segregation is at the heart of the debate, but we all know that it is not thanks to the Government, but also to the Government of the Generality, since, before its inaction, the syndic has been forced to make various reports and promote a national pact, which you now want to take, as we say a decade ago – a decade ago, yes, a year ago – that this phenomenon increases in Catalonia; it increases in such a way that it is another source of shame that, with Madrid, leads the Spanish State. Mirin, more than statements of intent and photographs, the Department of Education does not have any of the relevant measures proposed by the educational community and which are put back into this motion to fight against school segregation. And do they know what the solution to school segregation is? More and better public school. We will never tire of saying that public school is the basis of equal opportunities and social cohesion and coexistence. A segregating school, in change, is the origin of a segregated, unequal and less prepared society. And we will not end up with segregating school until we finish with the triple educational network, a model with concerted schools– 40_per_cent of the education system in Catalonia –, a prestigious public school, linked to innovations, and a vulnerable public school; a triple educational network fully equipped for the LEC and its Education Service in Catalonia, which posed the same public and concerted bag, attacked the democratic management of the centres and transferred the neoliberal paradigm to education. Currently, the concerted school only acquits the 15_percent of the most vulnerable socioeconomic level student, less than the half of what it would correspond if the distribution was equitable; in change, 84_percent of the student who asks for food students attends the public. And where's the segregation factor? In the economic barriers of the concert and on the part of the public school in the form of quotas, catering, colonies, exits and out-of-schools or contributions to the AMP, who know that the rest of Europe are forbidden. The assumption that families dedicate themselves to education has increased by 19_percent since the beginning of the crisis, the lords and lords of Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Left, while public contributions have fallen by 11_percent. She's a disgrace. It is a shame that the educational community will be equally distributed to students with special needs, downsizing, public investment, live registration, and you respond to P3 lines and follow, how come not? , without planning the school year from the perspective of fighting segregation. They stop funding concerts and make school the engine of social cohesion, community intervention and educational projects around. The basis of Catalan education must be a single public school of quality, with anti-racist, feminist, inclusive and diverse perspectives as the foundation of education. We won't have an inclusive society built on a segregating school. I repeat, it's a first-class education problem, and we're just like the last few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.156.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Esther Niubó has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.157.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, first of all, thank the CUP for the motion, a motion that came up at a time when the Pact against Segregation, which in its day pushed the syndic with the department, therefore, begins to walk, that we hope soon to start taking courageous steps, some of which, therefore, you also plant. A first reflection might be that these measures should be discussed for the educational community, for the assemblies, which also form part of the pact, but in any case, therefore, welcome continue and welcome follow the debate, which we will look to comment on one by one. Before, however, we believe that the debate on segregation went much further than the debate between public and concerted schools, because we have segregated public centres, of an extreme, of high complexity or, of the other extreme, with very little interclassism, and also concrete centres of barriers that assume the student who correspond them in difficult barrels, and from this we would find many examples, and also centers of private title that are elitist, that, in effect, are not corresponsible and surely, therefore, do not complete with the objectives of public service, and that, therefore, they should not be rebreed or publicly funded and therefore not hold the concert. But, rather than this, which seems to us, indeed, that it is very important to address, there is also a structural issue, as you said; there is the issue of the infra-financing of the conjunction of the education system, which has some responsible. And this underfunding, therefore, affects first of all the schools and public institutes, affects the teacher, affects the attention that the student responds, affects the equipment, but it also affects the co-responsible concerted school, which, if doubtless, does not respond to the adequate funding and which would correspond to it. And everyone knows who ends up paying for this: the families pay for it. And so, we're wondering where the right of free education is left. So it stays at these moments far away. Therefore, the priority of the public school, yes, sense of doubt, we agreed, and, in fact, it has been approved in this Parliament that we do not want, that we oppose closing lines of P3 unilaterally, even less the lines that are from public centers..., and yes to take advantage, therefore, of the democratic winter to reduce the rates and work much more diversity, but we cannot accept that, without a study planned area by area, this reduction of the offer is only limited to the concerted one. It seems to us that it is unfair, it seems to us that it is against freedom, I do not say the right, but the freedom of families to choose the educational project of their children. Therefore, frontal opposition to the closing of public lines, yes; reduction of rates also, but a frontal attack to the concerted cannot share it because we understand that it would not be fair. And this point was very linked to the public school's promotion plan, we also agreed, but it seemed to us again unfair to eliminate concerts in a set of private ownership centres in a marked period without having studied the need for schooling on a case-by-case basis. And, therefore, we cannot vote in favour of point 2 or what was going on, which is number 3. Yes, we thank them, therefore, for the transaction, which incorporated a theme that we had presented, where we urge not to renew the concerts to those schools that do not assume this responsibility with the public service objectives, that do not admit students with special educational needs or with high complexity, and obviously not those that secrete by sex. And we will vote in favour of the points relating to the guarantee of universality, the gratuitousness of the educational services of the fooder, the leure, the libres. It seems to us, surely, an objective of maximum, which would be useful to work longer term, but in any case it seems positive to us to guarantee equal opportunities and access to educational opportunities. And just like the need to apply a new student admission decree with concrete measures to combat segregation. And here we understand that many of these proposals have been voted on and approved, and we will again vote in favour; for example, that this balanced student distribution is guaranteed with special, high-complexity educational needs; that there is a limitation on live enrolment in high-complexity centres; that it is guaranteed that quotas are published by the schools– and here it seems that there is a very valuable information from the centres – and obviously also that the compulsory payment of quotas in the concerted schools is eliminated, which would also require you to accept, therefore... that there is adequate funding from the government. We shall therefore vote in favour. And we are also in favour, logically, of increasing resources for the proper course: more hours for unfolding, increasing seedlings, covering replacements from the first day; measures that would result in a better educational quality, band also, therefore, to generalize pedagogical renewal, innovation or inclusion to ensure fairness. About the 12th point we have to say that it has surprised us to continue working, because often, so – I said yesterday – many together have known that it is close a line of its municipality because they have told them the AMPAs; they have not had this direct call. But in any case, it seems to us that it is the best way to address a proper planning that is done with the different administrations that have educational skills. And, finally, they know that at the last point we had presented a question in the line of reviewing, if you forget, the Plant Order; it was not accepted. We are concerned about possible arbitrariness that trade unions or many teachers report or explain to us. And, therefore, he said that it had not been accepted, but that, taking into account that the wording remains sufficiently open, so we would vote for this point, hoping that we could indeed sit on a table, as the Director General did the last few years, and that we could see that it does not work but that we would also guarantee the potential educational projects, and also the participation of the teacher in the educational centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.158.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Congresswoman Sonia Sierra, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.159.0	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. And, if I may say so, in what we are carrying in full are already two Machist allusions to my colleague Lorena Roldán. Mr Batet and Mr Pep Riera have tried to devalue their interventions with personal allusions. And we are already many, the deputies of different parties, that we are fed up with Machist comments in the parliamentary seat. [[Greetings.]] And Mr. Batet and Mr. Riera I tell you that they would already like to have half the political size of my partner Lorraine Roldán. [[Greetings.]] And, as far as the young lady is concerned, there's no doubt that one of the toughest problems the Catalan school has is segregation. Catalonia is the second autonomous Spanish community and the third... where school segregation... I'm sorry, it's just that we've been talking and now I'm out of focus; I'm getting back on track. Catalonia is the second autonomous Spanish community with more school segregation and the third with academic results where these results depend more on the socioeconomic situation of families. It is very expensive to hear why all the parties, including the CUP, that present us today, repeat as a mantra that the Catalan school is a model of success, with these dice in hand. It's just that it can't be argued that the Catalan school is a model of success and that we have a segregation problem. Either one or the other, but both things at once, no. In this case, there are aspects such as the enrolment and distribution of pupils, which are important, in the sense of doubt, but leave behind aspects that directly affect the social ascent that should be the school, and that in Catalonia this elevator does not work. The most terrible case is that of foreign origin students, because we are the autonomous Spanish community and the region of Europe where foreign origin students get worse results. Of course, I think there is nothing more segregating than a student's success or failure at school than his or her origin. In fact, if you spoke to the different communities that live in Catalonia, as we do, you would find that precisely this is one of the problems that causes the families the most, because they see the problems that their children will have in the future because of this school failure. Obviously, the fact of being a foreigner does not condemn the school children. I just need to see what happens to other people. For example, in Seville, this year, the best ESO dispatcher has a student who came a lot from Crimea. I mean, the alien origin doesn't have to convict you. But in Catalonia, unfortunately, it is criminal to have a foreign origin. I don't see any intention of changing that, because they don't want to talk. We brought it to the Segregation Pact, and they didn't want to talk about it. That's why we didn't sign it. And there's another very difficult subject of segregation, and it's that in Catalonia, if you have money, you can study with more than one vehicle language, and if you don't have money, you can only study with a vehicle language. Mirin, that's why segregation and discrimination are said to be due to economic reasons. [[Greetings.]] And now, when they come out here, surely, so they will insult me or say any barbarity of Ciutadans, which is what they always do, but it is that reality is coughing up: Catalonia is the region of Europe with the lowest school attendance in immigrant students and in Catalonia, if you don't have money, you can't study with more than a vehicle language. These are the objective facts. And I'm telling you one thing: as I've devoted my whole life to being a teacher in public school, I'm more interested and worried about the equal opportunities of my students than your insults, with which you can continue to insult, there's no problem, basically because we're indifferent: we'll continue to defend the equality and fairness of all students. And for what he does to the young man, we'll give support to most points, because they'll always find us to defend a quality public school. We are pleased that the CUP also wants free text books, as it has been a long time claiming Ciutadans, and we have already succeeded in other autonomous communities. But, as we know that a young man at the end doesn't force many kings, what is to be done is, at the very Ple or the next, when we bring our proposal for you here because all the students of Catalonia can have free textbooks... no one is blocking it and they want to really have a law that forces education to remain free of charge. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.160.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Mr Bernat Solé, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.161.0	Good morning, Vice President. Counselor, MPs, MPs, Mr Riera, if in politics one thing to be clear is to know where you want to get to; if more than anything you propose is a project to govern, it does not just take into account where you want to get to, but from there you come and what point you are at every moment, and from here, from this state of situation, and you can argue what you can do from there that you want, in other words, to put on the table all that you think is necessary for a country and set priorities and times from the possibilities. And that's exactly what you have from the parliamentary group that I represent to the Government of the Generality. And we ask him a lot, and we'll follow him asking a lot more. But what we're not gonna do is ask what's not enough. And we won't do it because it wouldn't be just for a whole sector that fights and works day and day long. And what this sector is asking is facts and not words. You're setting up a place where we've been able to come to some agreements, but in essence we share a good part of the way and we're showing up the same time that a lot of the elements that are being planted are already being made. And they're doing at this point where we're, as I said before, a point that sees a long economic recession, still present in many areas, but above all in a presuppositional prorogation scene that allows us to do what it allows us to do, but sense of doubt does not allow us to do so that many of the present here today would want to. And here's where I refer to asking them for that sense of responsibility that day they ask the government. Political is to propose, political is to demand, but political is also to take part, and this is where we find the majority of you missing. They speak to us, in a first block of this young man, of a public school promotion plan that passes through the voluntary change of title of the school arranged in the next six years and that they become obligatory to the two years. As you know, from the parliamentary group that I represent, we see Catalonia's education system under a few basic and indispensable elements to form part of it: the same rights, the same rights and the proper financing so that this is possible. And it is these same rights and these same rights that allow us to guarantee the renewal of educational concerts to those centers that complement the proportion of enrollment of students with special educational needs or those centers that do not secrete by sex. And this is also due to the non-requirement of the collection of compulsory allowances. We've said it a few more times and we'll say it again: same rights, same rights and proper financing. It is precisely for this reason that from the department is working on a concert decree that guarantees these three conditions. And not only that, but the government has already approved a few weeks ago the possibility that those concerted centres that want to move into the network of public centres will be able to do so through a change of ownership. In another block of this young man they speak of universal gratuity; in other words: free fooder, free outings, free books, free material and free extra-school activity; and they are so wide. And then what do we do with inclusive school? And what then do we do with the increase in staff to reduce rates, facilitate duplication, or get back school hours? What do we do with the investment plan in educational centres? What do we do with the prefabricated modules? Remember before, when I told him to rule, did he mean to take sides? So that's it, that's exactly it, taking part: prioritizing. Finally, they're talking about what's been done. It's good for us to remember it, and not just to remember it, but to explain it, to explain it to the whole educational community, because often, to claim what we want, we forget to remember what is already being done. At the level of training, it is obvious and we are very clear and agree that, with more training, more educational quality; with more pedagogical innovation, more educational quality, and more social cohesion in classrooms, more educational quality. It is for this reason that I need to bet on training appropriate to each sociocultural context, but not only that, but that all educational centres have all the necessary resources. And that doesn't happen for free books or it doesn't just happen for free books. We're at another scene, we're at the stage where each center, depending on its educational project, has to determine who are the most responsive materials to their needs, that each educational project has the freedom to adapt to the socio-cultural context we talked about before. And that's why there are compromises and compromises; more directions with pedagogical leaderships and fewer directions with managerial leaderships, we agree. And if that's supposed to be a review of the Plant Order, we'll do it. In any case... because we are very clear, we are very clear that the student must be the center of any decision in educational matters. And that's why I hope you also agree on this. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.162.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of Deputy Xavier Quinquilla, for the Parliamentary Group of Juntes in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.163.0	Thank you, President. Counselling, deputies, deputies, fighting against school segregation is an educational priority, and in this sense it is necessary to guarantee fairness and that education exercises its cohesive role and social ascent. We are ahead of a complex problem that requires complex solutions. And I want to make explicit reference to the Pact against School Segregation, which has been referred to on various occasions, a pact which sets out as a basic objective to achieve this balanced distribution of the studentship in centres in the same area, whether public, whether concluded, educational centres, in short, which are a real reflection of its social and territorial environment. And all this with an objective to be shared, which is to advance into this necessary and indispensable system-wide co-responsibility. With some causes that fix the same document of the pact, some external causes, of urban segregation, social, and some internal causes, the focus is on a basic and cabdal theme, that is the infra-financing that affects the whole education system and that generates economic barriers that affect in a special way the private school concerted, but also a significant part of the public. And in this sense the motion put forward I think it is in great simplification, both for what it does to the diagnostics of the problem and for what it does at the time of proposing solutions. Because for you diversity is a problem. The solution is to create an equal and homogeneous system on diversity, and in this case the concerted school is an anomaly, where the concerted school is the main cause of the problem and, therefore, the solution is to end the concerted school. I am concerned that they are so far away, not so far away from us, but that they are so far away from the Covenant against School Segregation and everything that backs the document. I am concerned that these conclusions are so far along that they point out precisely the problem of infra-financing and the economic barriers that it generates as a topic of scope and purpose. I am concerned that the solution follows precisely the exclusion from the system when what is proposed from the pact is precisely this necessary correlation between the public and private sphere with the same rights – as has already been said here – and the same rights. This means financing equity to achieve real and effective co-responsibility, properly administering this diversity to ensure the fairness of the system; putting in value all actors, also the concerted school. And I want to put into value just about everything that refers to social initiative and its vertebral and locomotive role in many areas as well – in the education camp they have been key at very complicated times in our history – and that it is an added value in our education model. And, in this sense, before the motion that you present, say that we reject the points that make reference precisely to suppressing the concerted model as such. Point 4 we will accept, in the sense that it seems reasonable to put the suppression in concert precisely in cases of segregation by sex, yes, establishing transitional mechanisms that make it easier for the centers to just walk towards the mixed model; as well as accepting in the case that there is no correlation with the objectives, precisely, of the public service, while also taking into account that there is a problem of infra-financing here that needs to be addressed. For what it does at point 8, which also directly affects the concerted, the prohibition of quotas, obviously, conceptually, from the standard mark, it is obvious that we cannot be in favour, precisely because the standard mark is the express gratuity of compulsory teachings. Now, as it's written, we can't share it. We will abstain precisely because it makes no explicit reference to the central issue of infra-financing and the co-sponsorship it generates for families. For what it does to the whole issue of universal gratuity or better jobs. Here is a subject, which has been said before, that for a matter of responsibility, of presuppositional availability, but even so, of philosophy in some terms, we cannot give them support, but for what it refers to point 11, of the better resources and reduction of rates, we will abstain; precisely, in the case of the times, because we understand that here we can advance towards a concept that is not a student-group but a student-teacher ratio, which is much more real. And if you say that, at the points you have to see with the license plate management, we'll give you support. And to do so is to point 14, the point that refers to the autonomy of centers and the role of addresses; in this case, we will reject it, because we understand that it is a foundational pillar of the Catalonian Education Law and because, moreover, it has been and must continue to be a motor of better public education in its conjunction. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.164.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the turn, to fix its position, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Mr. Daniel Serrano has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.165.0	Thank you, President. The truth is that the People's Party of Catalonia is becoming the ideological Alamo of the principles of the centreright in this Parliament, because, in the end, except for a few improvements in the educational system proposed by the CUP group, the rest is an attack on the flotation line of the educational model of coexistence existing in Catalonia, which is of coexistence between the public school and the private-concerted school. And except for some slight... well, lukewarm defense of that model, there has been no political group here that has clearly positioned itself in defense of the mixed model that we have. And it is a model of successful coexistence and, in addition, it is compatible with the freedom of parents to choose the education they want for their children. And then we don't understand that obsession to carry itself, which attacks directly, I insist, against the freedom of parents to choose the education of their children. And the concerted school, in addition to providing a public service that is education, is also a source of job creation and, in addition, makes it compatible, I insist, that they can live together in harmony educational models that the public offer does not have. Therefore, giving parents freedom so that they can choose, I insist, the education they want for their children, that that is the key to the issue. We are not the ones, the politicians, to decide the education that the children of other families have to have, are the parents, and the current model allows that freedom and you want to charge precisely the freedom of the parents to choose that model of coexistence, I insist, which is compatible. That is why we are obviously not going to support this motion, except for some specific point of improvement in the system. But, as we understand that it is actually an attack on the flotation line of the coexistence system of the public model and the concertado, we are not going to support it on the rest of the points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.166.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the new word the deputy Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.167.0	Thank you, President. Well, I mean that the totality, the absolute totality of measures and proposals that appear in this motion correspond to the great consensus, the great agreements that currently exist in the educational community. Positions expressed sufficiently for the MUCE, for the major trade unions in the sector, for the FAPAC. Therefore, listen, indeed, to us on this subject we are on the side of the Government and on the side of some of the theses of the groups that support it and we are very close to the educational community, to the most representative sectors of the educational community, and we like it, we like it. We celebrate and demand it. In any case, the problem is the government and the groups that support it. Well, let's just say that we, in the young man's room, who we have raised are a series of blocks that attack the problem on the structural bases. First of all, a process of transition from this diverse system of centers that is at the basis of segregation to a unified model of school, universal, free and equal opportunity for everyone. After, of course, also the immediate elimination of concerts in those centers that, moreover, take public money to multiply segregation. Then, in another block, we talk about resources, resources that can be provided to the public system so that it is a powerful and equalizing system and, at times, everything that involves the system of gratuities so that there are no class differences in access to the education system. After that, we are talking about the control of registration, that is, the measures that are needed to control entry into the system and, finally, to achieve the result of equal opportunities. And in this sense, he said that he surprised us, at a given moment, the intervention of Junts' spokesman for Catalonia, who contrasted us with diversity with equality. Listen to me, we consider diversity a value, but obviously, this can never be as justification for inequality. Therefore, we want a system that generates equality and from here respects diversity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.168.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Some applause.]] We're calling it a vote. [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Caula, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.169.0	For a separate vote, for a side 8, separate from 11, separate from 14, and a block that could group 1, 2, 3, 5 and 10.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.170.0	Before I had been asked to vote separately from point 1, 2 and 3 for another band. I understand it's a quarter, eight, on another side, 11 and 14 separately. Yeah? All of these. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Riera, why ask me the word? Say it. Ask me the word, forgive me, per?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.171.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.172.0	For allusions, thirty-seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.173.0	Mrs. Sierra, please don't trivialize masculinism. I did not comment male, and putting it, what I said, to the level of male comment to which it really harms the women who truly suffer maleism. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.174.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs. Caula, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.175.0	If you could repeat us...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.176.0	Yes... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes; Mrs. Sierra, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.177.0	For direct allusions. Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.178.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.179.0	Actually, if you don't see the masculinism in your comment you have a very difficult problem and we won't go far if we go to the Women's Parliament, but allowing masculinist comments to the Members of this Parliament. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.180.0	By your gestures, Mr. Rodriguez, do I interpret that it is a separate vote from the whole House? Yeah? Okay. So... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes; Mr. Riera, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.181.0	Only for a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.182.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.183.0	I'm just saying that I'm sorry I didn't mention the papers on behalf of the rest of the parliamentary groups, which – of course – we appreciate all the ones we've been able to incorporate and deal with. It was simply and strictly for a short time at the time of the intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.184.0	All right. Thank you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes; Mrs. Roldán, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.185.0	Yes; by separate vote also from the subpoint..., 4.1.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.186.0	No, no. I've been asked to vote separately from all points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.187.0	Yeah? With subpoints and everything?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.188.0	So, we'll vote separately on all the points and subpoints, I understand, huh? All right, so let's move on to vote number one in the vote. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. Point 1_has been rejected by 47 votes to 69, with 16 abstentions. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been rejected by 13 votes in favour, 120 against and no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 121 against and no abstentions. Let's move on to number four. Yes; we will do 4.1, because I understand that here the encapsulation cannot vote for it separately. 4.1. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] One moment, one moment... ara. The vote begins. Point 4.1_was approved by 90 votes to 5, with 36 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on point 4.2. The vote begins. Point 4.2 was approved by 127 votes to one, with four abstentions. Let's now vote point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 69 votes to 64, with no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved unanimously; 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're going to vote number seven. The vote begins. The seven-point was approved by 128 votes in favour, against and five abstentions. And now we're going to vote number eight. The vote begins. Point 8_has been approved by 93 votes to 3, with 37 abstentions. And now we're going to vote number nine. The vote begins. Point 9_has been approved by 129 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. Point 10_has been approved by 70 votes to 63, with no abstentions. Let's now vote point number 11. The vote begins. Point 11_has been approved by 69 votes to 64. And now we're going to vote point 12. The vote begins. The dot has been approved by 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions, that is, unanimously. And we're voting now on the trestle point. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 129 votes to none, with four abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the 14th and the last of this young man. The vote begins. The fourteen-point was approved by 64 votes to 39, with 30 abstentions. I don't think there's any more... [[Ramon Swordler and Partners ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Sworder?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.189.0	[[The speaker begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ... explanation of vote, in accordance with rule 103.3 of the Rules of Procedure. Patented.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.190.0	Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.191.0	Yes; thank you very much. There must have been a few different votes from my parliamentary group, along with Unites per Avance. I would like to put first the one that unites us, not only with my group, but with many other groups, which is the struggle against segregation; it fights against segregation that does not discriminate between public and concerted schools, as it was pale in an act in this same chamber, when the concerted school subscribed to it. The pilot, in any case, is at the helm in this case of the Government, which is who has to put the resources that do not reach the public – and we voted in favour of everything that is more resources for the public – nor the concerted. What we have not voted for – and this is the explanation of vote that I had interest in doing in the chamber – is all that is being done against, to the detriment of, so as to minimize the concerted school, which is compromised with all that is the struggle against segregation, so that all those points that come to the detriment of the concerted school, because we do not conceive it as two areas in confrontation, but in cooperation, as established by the same Law of Education, which we had just celebrated, therefore, its anniversary, which we consider to be highly positive, because it does not conflict or contradict the two models, but that they agree with the service of objectives that we share, among those of the non-segregation and the quality of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.192.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now the proposals, in accordance with rule 83.3, a change in the order of the day and move to the question to the Government on the security forces and bodies, which appears as the point of dissension of the order of the day, and later to do, as expected, the debate and vote of the Proposition of Law of Amendment of Law 13/2006, of social benefits of economic character. Therefore, we would now do the inquiry, if there is no inconvenience on the part of the chamber, and we would then do..., to continue as predicted. Is there a problem? Can this change be approved for absenteeism? [[Pause.]] Yeah? All right. If it seems to them, let's leave five minutes so we can adapt to this new..., to the change in the order of the day, and resume it with the government's inquiry, as we predicted.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.193.0	Well, let's resume the session after this break. [[Asking the Government about security forces and bodies]] [[300-00147/12]] And, as we granted a moment ago, let us move on to the dissension of the order of the day, which is the question to the Government about the forces and bodies of security, question exposed, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, for the deputy Mr Matías Alonso. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.194.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, councillor, let us speak again today of security forces and things, and we do so because unfortunately we need to speak again about the situation of the forces and things of security in Catalonia. It must be done so as to make clear what the role of the police is in whether the democratic states of the right, as is the case with us, and it must be made very clear why, dissociatedly, from the Government of the Generality, contradictory messages are constantly sent with what is political, legal and democratic reality. Councillor, even though from his government they arrive at the citizens of Catalonia and the rest of Spain signs that do not share the full force of the social and democratic state of law enshrined in the legitimate constitutional framework – I remind you, the Constitution and the State of Autonomy – the institutions of the Generality are a consubstantial part of the structure of one of the most solid and consolidated democratic states in Europe and the world. We, all of us, and you too, in your condition as a Member of this Parliament, have been. This Parliament, the Parliament of Catalonia, one of the main institutions of the Generality, has been; Spanish State, of course. You, Counselor, as a member of the executive council of the Government of the Generality, have been, or do not recognize it. That, from the legal, political and democratic point of view, is it. The Government of the Generality of Catalonia is an institution of the State, and the President of the Generality, even though his vocation is another, is the highest ordinary representative of the State in Catalonia; clear and Catalan. I have said this many times and I repeat again: the legitimacy of the institutions of the Generality and of its members emanates from the legitimate and fully valid democratic framework. A strong democratic framework that forces us to all public servers, starting with all those who have political obligations, and especially those who have governmental responsibilities. A democratic government must respect the legal framework, if it wants to be democratic, without any nuance. The nuances only play in the realm of political rhetoric, but never in government action. It is not possible to rule against democratic laws, against democratic order, against the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy. Rule against the democratic mark is illegitimate and undemocratic, and the democratic mark obliges all public servants, including security forces and bodies, to the police in Catalonia, to the Squadron Mossos and local police; its members know it well. And the obligation of who has the governmental responsibility, his obligation, adviser, and that of his team to the Department of Interior, is to facilitate that the professional activity of the members of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra is always developed under the emperor of the legal mark. A professional activity that is an essential service, since public security is the guarantee of the free exercise of the fundamental rights and public freedoms that it recognizes and enshrines our social and democratic state of law. This professional activity must be carried out in a democratic legal framework, with complete institutional loyalty, working in a coordinated manner with the rest of the security forces and bodies and, where necessary, with prosecutors, courts and tribunals. You know, and I've heard myself say more than once, that public security is an exclusive competence of the State, that is, of the Government of Spain; a competence that the Generality, in having an autonomous police, shares by delegation, and forms part of the structure of the State. The object of this inquiry are the forces and security features. This is an inquiry into the Government of the Generality, and the main object is the Squad's Cos de Mossos. The current situation of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra concerns us and we should all take care of it. It's not just the chronic lack of effect, it's also. Fortunately, new promotions have begun to be called and the process has begun, which will still be long, to arrive at the required number of effects. It is also the current deployment and distribution of the available effects from this deployment. We have asked you, Counselor, to make an accurate study of the current deployment that ensures the best possible distribution of the available effects. And it's also the moral state of the body. The police unions, you know, counselor, are very disappointed in the deal they get from their department. Trade union demands come from a long way and are systematically dissatisfied, which has caused several incidents, some of which in its own Interior Department, which have a very negative effect on the image of the body and of the same government. We, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, are concerned about the image of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and above all the conditions under which they develop their essential task. I could make it a list of union demands that come from a long time ago and that are dissatisfied, but, look, I want to focus on a matter of full topicality that from my point of view affects the morale of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. It has been months that we and some members of the body are denouncing the political use that is made of internal bodies, as now the Division of Internal Affairs. The DAI is acting selectively and cannot say that they are fake news, both good and so. The DAI is permissive with impropie conducts of police officers who engage in separatist proselytism and apparently attack with impunity the democratic mark in force and pursue agents who publicly show their commitment to the defense of the democratic order, when they publicly show their commitment to the law and constitutional and statutory order, which is the first obligation of any police officer. The world upside down. But when we thought we'd seen everything up June. We, Counselor, are the main opposition group. We, Counselor, have been very critical of many of the decisions of the current Government of the Generality and of the former, which had the same bias. On June 3, a week and a half ago, you appointed a new commissioner at the head of the Squadron's Cos de Mossos – new, new crack – very soon after completing the commissioner's course. The ex-intendent Sallent is turning back and forth into the new commissioner in chief. I have no personal objection to Commissioner Albert Sallent, neither I nor my parliamentary group. We don't have hours of doubt about his professional skills. Honestly, I hope I don't have a reason to doubt your professionalism. But I must say that his name has surprised us, as at least as many of the high commands, of the commissaris of the body. But, look, counselor, Commissioner Sallent is the third commissioner in the head of the body in a year. You replaced Commissioner Ferran López with Commissioner Miquel Esquius. In Ferran López, he had to his eyes the stigma of having remained faithful to the democratic order, the application of democratic legality, the political measure of applying Article 155, which was entirely justified, because the members of the Government of the Generality, with the consortium of some prominent members of this Parliament, violated the rights of millions of Catalans and of the parliamentary opposition groups the days of the September and October 2017 shame. I say, my parliamentary group says, we have been in the city since those inauspicious days and the European Court of Human Rights has just said this with a meridian clarity. They emboldened a lot of people those black days. They still have a lot of people embolized, and they're willing to embolize us all. But they couldn't embolise Commissioner Lopez. And it seems they haven't been able to embolise Commissioner Esquius either. We are told, for direct testimonies of members of the body and for press releases, that the task of Commissioner Esquius has not been easy people and that his replacement obeys political reasons, not operative ones. Commissioner Esquius has always been under a lot of pressure, but he hasn't been emboldened and that's why they've stopped him. If he's not, why did they stop him? Counselor, we are very concerned that you are still making the same mistake your predecessor made. They can't aspire to politicize the Generality Police. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.195.0	To answer the question, the inside counselor, Mr. Miquel Buch, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.196.0	Thank you, President. Congressman and congressmen, this is like that series that doesn't have a physical relationship, right? , which is sequencing, but each episode is a different story. And you, so... there's a story that's what can happen in a series, that's what normally happens, and then there are sequences that happen, episodes that are different from one another. You..., here I've done more than once, which is: "We come to talk about security, but you sure as hell didn't talk about it. Now, that, yes, it's embolized, it's said true myths, it's given a little bit to hear things so, so, make the package really big and give to hear that the police, that according to you respect it so much..., make it clear that it's a political police, okay? They expect that every time they do this, they bring in a big body, loaded with professionals, men and women, Catalans and Catalans who are going for our safety. And every time I come out here to talk and to say and to explain that the police are politicized, it doesn't hurt me, it doesn't hurt me, it hurts me that they push a car every day or every day they push a motorcycle or every day they go for the safety of all of us. It hurts them and them. Therefore, rethink this series, change the attitude. I ask them: change the attitude and we get old... I, go, I've always been with open arms and hands to try to evolve some problems that since the first day I came here to Parliament I diagnosed, explained and said where we were going to solve them. And from the first day I told them all: escort, open arms, let's solve it folded. Remember when I told the Commission: "I am very happy to listen to what you are saying because I am convinced that you will help me to approve the assumption of the year you are going to, because what I need are resources? It's not gonna happen. Well, it didn't happen. There's a lot of paths to help us make our work better. And yesterday I gave it to Congressman Castillo. I say: 'Listen to me, if I want an opposition that is active and that is hard, that works, that demands us, because we will do better our work. But, man, from this, to find me what you do, that's coming here to say: "The Mosso are politicized, "you do it very badly, etcetera. Let's solve it, not one. That's right: "Remember that you are part of the Spanish State, so... that's almost 40% of the intervention that we were part of the Spanish State, as we already know. Miri, I'll give you an example. You've landed a lot with the Institutional Security Area we've created. They've put up a lot, they've discussed it a lot, they've named it all the way, because that's what you do, you know how to find fake words to discredit things. All right. [[The counselor shows a few fulls to the chamber.]] I don't carry newspaper announcements with you fans, huh? I bring them true realities, a royal decree and a decree of the Government of Catalonia, which is copied, is trampled. You got to read what's in the hole, huh? , because, besides, if you want to then give it to you because you can compare them, and if you want to play the game not from the seven differences, no, from the zero differences. A royal decree that serves the State that you so much admire and so much reminds us, or so much has done to the extent of your intervention, a royal decree cast our women at the Generality of Catalonia and you the despicable. So it's when I raise it: you, who proclaim the unity of the Catalans and the Spanish, because they pretend that there are Catalans who are still in second place. Why do they do that? Why doesn't what you serve in Madrid serve Catalonia? I'm asking, why. Another example. You talked... I'm going back to wearing real dice, not newspaper headlines, huh? , true dice, or so on, to reality. [[The counselor shows a graph to the chamber.]] The presupposition that we have had in Mossos d'Esquadra, the decline fruit of the crisis and the increase that we are bringing to us now. Well, they're examples of work done. Em talks about the lack of effect. Facial toilet – do the toilet for me – say to me: "You should not have to do 850, 751, 1,000, 2,000 instead of 750.... do this toilet to me, but do not repeat to me that there is a lack of effect, which we already know from the first day. And that, with that, this government has committed itself to it, and in six months it has launched a 750 promotion, which makes six years that they do not defend themselves. Let me say that there are a thousand missing, that there should be eight hundred in place of 750, but I do not want to say more that there are still a few moves because they know that with the time that we have had we have put all that we have been able to recover it. Today we find ourselves in a situation that is: three hundred years of Squadron Mosses – three hundred years – much older than any other thing and security force of the Spanish State – much older, three hundred years. We find ourselves before twenty-five years of a law, the law of squadron mosss. We find ourselves, after God, twelve years, seven years, eight years, the ones you want to count on, an economically unfavourable situation and, therefore, how we are trying to recover from this situation. And we find that the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Before this reality I propose them... – and I have explained it by active and passive –, the proposal, first – and it is what we are working in the department –, recover the number of agents as soon as possible; 750 agents this year you see – the year you see, because they start this year –, 750 on 19, 750 on 20. We have put forward a promotion of eight commissioners, of two intendants, of forty-four inspectors. Ugly two years that don't fit, of promotions in ugly sis. We are working with the State Department of Social Security to see whether or not they authorize, and as they will authorize, early retirement at fifty-nine years. We're working in the second activity. So, workers' theme, we're-- or so, we're trying to get back as fast as we can the number of agents and, plus, we're worried about how this retirement works for us and then we lose it again. We're getting better investments, we're getting back the money they stopped investing. We're doing it, not as fast as we'd like, I'm saying, so good you have twice as much pressure to do all the new commissariats, but it's not reality. So, everything we have we're asking for to get back tools and reverse. We're improving working conditions. We have fifteen points on the table – I've already come here to explain and I think I've also explained it to the committee –, fifteen points that the unions put on the table, which we're negotiating. Now there's a union that has denounced some union elections, a union has denounced it, and a court has put an end to union elections, and therefore we can't negotiate because we don't know who the legitimate representatives are. So they can't move forward. So good for the judge to say that these are the legitimate representatives of these trade union elections, from now on we will be back on the march... as we have done with Bombers, I can tell you that very few people gave a hard time for us at the time of negotiating and agreeing and approving a deal. We got it. So we'll do it with the Mosses, too. We'll throw in a new law of police twenty-five years later. I announced we'd do it. I said, "When the election cycle ends we will meet – today I think Congressman Roquer remembered that." A few days ago, the election cycle ended, we gathered all the parliamentary groups and I said to them, "Let's go over here, there's more work going on, let's say, the professionals, when it's more elaborate we'll get to the political camp. And yes, we appointed eight commissioners and one of them we asked him to be the commissioner in chief. We asked him. You mean those who were before did it badly? No, in any case, don't do it badly. You mean they're gonna do better? Well, we don't have the security right now, we don't have the guarantee. What we do have the guarantee is that the commissioners we have now, before we approve these eight, were commissioners of the first, second and third promotions. So, it's the ones who pulled the unfolding, it's the ones who brought us to the thing we have now, this thing that we're not so proud of, this thing that is the second most valued institution in Catalonia. And it's true that we need to prepare the police of the future. You mean they can't do it? No, but it must also be combined with a new impulse, with a new generation of moves, of people who have worked and who have a lot of experience, such as Commissioner Sallent, with twenty-two years of experience in the body and with many responsibilities. This new impulse must lead us to adapt the body to the future; to age for the new criminal activities that there are, for example, cybercrime; to diagnose and draw what is the future of Mossos, at the level of commissariats, at the level of agents, who are the profiles we need most; for example, it gave it cybercrime, but, for example, a crime that concerns us very much, which is male violence. Therefore, there is a series of objectives in which you can combine the moves that were before with the moves that are for us to draw what the future of the police is. There's no political element that's not what I'm explaining to you right now... which led me to make a change of commissioner in my head. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.197.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer, it's the deputy's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.198.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, I made him some toilet, but he put some toilets in my mouth that I didn't make him. In any case, I agree with you and most of the members of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, including the new commissioner in charge, in the need to leave the Catalan police outside the party debate. From the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans we agree, totally agree, with this need. And this is also today's subject of this inquiry. We need to leave the squadrons and the local police on the sidelines of the party debate, because they provide an essential service. It's not playing with what's really important. And public security, as a guarantee of the free exercise of public rights and public freedoms, is very important, very important. Just as it is also the fact that police officers always have before them the look of legality: everything they do must agree with the laws and regulations that apply to them, until they can play their own life. Therefore, the first obligation of those who have the political responsibility to develop the governmental security task – in the case of the Mossos d'Esquadra, the dome of the Department of Interior – is to provide at all times the police officers with the legal guarantee, the legal security that they need in their police task. This, above all, is what must always remain on the sidelines of the party debate, and this, precisely, is what did not have a lot of agents of the Squad Ways in these days. You, Counselor, have justified – you have done so in press, in statements – the commissioner's replenishment in which you can recover when before the lost normality is better. Look, counselor, the Squad Moss have enough preparation to know what you need to do to keep your police pocket in normal. And it was precisely the political interference practiced by the Department of Interior that made the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra entered a phase of abnormality. A democratic police force is very clear that it must obey the law and that when it is required it must be at the direction and service of prosecutors, courts and courts, without any political interference. I have said this more than once, counselor: the political program of Junts per Catalunya, d'Esquerra Republicana or any political force, for much legitimate and democratic that it may be, can never interfere in the governmental task that you and the dome of your department have legally mandated. The orders of the members of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra to develop its functions must be outside the political interest of the Government. And that, counselor, you know enough, has not always been so, especially the weeks ahead of the days of shame, the days of September and October 2017, in which the Catalan Autonomous Government, encapsulated for whom then was the highest ordinary representative of the State in Catalonia, tried to give a shot to democracy violating the phonenal rights of millions of Catalans and parliamentary opposition groups. You, distinguished members of your party, put at great risk, on the margins of legality and without legal guarantee, a good part of the agents of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. Now they're squirming and they're saying there's been a time when there was no normality. It is clear that there was, because it is not normal for a government, in full exercise of power, within its powers, with the support of the Parliament, to break the democratic mark without any legitimacy, political, legal or democratic. You, your party and the rest of the political forces that actively participated in the election to democracy, have put in danger the autonomy and have made a hard attempt against the prestige of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, and now it seems that Commissioner Esquius has carried himself out in order not to follow us, because the dome of command of the cos did not want to follow them and wanted to make it clear that, in the face of the capricious partisan of a disloyal government, there is the democratic mandate of the law. And this, the democratic law, is the light that must guide police action at all times. We are concerned about the situation of the body, the replenishment to the prefecture and how it has occurred, the creation of a pretorian guard under a political hierarchy, the use of the DAI selectively with political interest, we are concerned, and very much. I quit politicizing the police in Catalonia. I don't play with public safety. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.199.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is the return now, to make the reply, also, of the Councillor of the Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.200.0	Thank you, President. See, Congressman, say 'one-order-one-order' of the Government of the Generality to force the Mossos to fail the law. Tell me 'nuna' – one, one. Tell me 'n' one. Say'mun_sol incompliment of the Mossos d'Esquadra to the judicial warrant. Tell me 'none – one –, only one. Because he did not come here and say, "You have gone to the Mossos to break the law. Tell me one, one order. Because he's either wrongly advised or he's lying badly. And we're talking about security, and we're talking about the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad And, look, maybe to you it may seem very legitimate to come here and explain the fallacy of the Police and Squad Mosses, but I'm telling you it's immoral to do it, immoral at all. Therefore, in truth, I return to the path of the path, I fail to explain that the Government of the Generality gives orders that are illegal to the Mossos. Stop explaining it. That you're lying! And if you have any facts that explain this to him, know that he's not laughing from you right now, from you, to your face, because he misled him. I, if not, prove it to us. But it's just like the charges he makes against the DAI. You say that the police that go through the proper functioning of the same thing, which is the DAI, the Division of Internal Affairs, does not favor one another and punishes the other. That's denouncing – that's denouncing. So, let's go in here and report it more, if you have this. Okay? Because if you have the assurance that a cop is not doing his job, what will he do? He'll report it, just like he's a meth, just like he's an administration, just like he's a master. Well, he'll report it, won't he? – in the corresponding courts? So you do the same thing. Because when you come here to explain it and I didn't report it, two things happen: one, you're not doing your job well, so you should fold, and, two, give us to hear, and to the honest country, that you prefer to lie that you don't report and fix a problem, while I continue with this attitude. He talked about Commissioner Esquius more than once. He said that « we know..., « we know that Commissioner Esquius said that he did not want to follow us. Not to lie, please. Hard to lie. It's not true. I've only got good words for him from Commissioner Esquius. I said it publicly and I said it privately. I only have good words for him and for the work he's done. And you say: "Make the change of commissari because they want to go back to normality. No! No! I listened to the one I explained. I didn't say, me, that. I explained that, with the resignation of Commissioner López – resignation, non-cessament, resignation of Commissioner López –, with the resignation of Commissioner López, we chose Commissioner Esquius, and Commissioner Esquius has returned to normality the body, which we came from the time of 155, which is the imposition, the coup d'état of the Government of the Spanish State, which you were part of, huh? , to impose itself on a police body, like that of the Squad Mosos, and bring us back to normality. And Commissioner Esquis, commissari en cape ahora Esquius, returned the body to normality, to the judicial world, to entities, to everything that a police body usually has to do with. And that the new commissioner is the one who draws the new impulse, which is what I've explained here; the same one that I explained in a press wheel or in a media attention I explained here: the new impulse, where the body goes. And I say again: does it mean that those who were there before would do it badly? No, no, You mean they'll do us better? Well, they don't know. What's clear is that those who were there before with us are sure they'll make a better team and they'll be able to draw who's the police of the future, because those who are there now are the ones who did the whole projection and the whole deployment model of Squad Mosos more than twenty-five years ago. So, we're in the middle of something, the police and everything. He talked about the Praetorian Guard again. Actually, if you want a gift, huh? I don't care, if I want to give it to you, and read it, but I'm done talking about the Pretorian Guard, because if you're talking about the Pretorian Guard here, I want to feel like you're talking about the Pretorian Guard in Sánchez, because, if you're not, you're going to do what you've always done, that's wanting to divide Catalans with one another, to say, "I'm one way and we're from another, to divide this country. And, at the end of the day, it's the great irresponsibility of his party and of the work they've done since the day they were born until today. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.201.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Proposed law amending Law 13/2006, social benefits of economic character (continuation)]] [[202-00054/12]] Let us now turn to the debate and vote on the proposed law amending Law 13/2006, of social benefits of economic character. In accordance with Rule 138.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the deadline for submission of opinions is now set, we shall now proceed to the debate on the joint statements submitted by the different parliamentary groups. In the first place, the key parliamentary groups will intervene according to the date of entry, the time of entry into the Register, and later the groups that have not submitted any papers will intervene. Seconds... [[Marta Ribas Frías asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Ribas; say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.202.0	A point of order. [[Pause.]] As a matter of fact, to express the complaint that this is a unique reading procedure that has some specificities; it would be logical for the first group that intervened to propose this law to lead the negotiations, as the situation stands, because then the interventions of the rest of the parliamentary groups are taken together. Obviously, we are not a leading group, because we are the group that proposed this text. It is not a normal legislative procedure, it is not a legislative procedure that has had a question and a rapporteur who can explain how the negotiations and the conclusions of this negotiation have remained, and I believe that this paper was looking for us. It's not by character, it's because the debate that we're going to have from now on is over. If we don't get started, we've led the negotiations, we won't get along with the rest of the interventions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.203.0	Mrs Ribas, as you know, for a band, is the order that was established at the Board of Spokespersons by virtue of what had been done before in proceedings of the same type, and, on the other hand, also to say that yesterday we already had a debate on the opportunity or not of the single reading, and also – and I warned it to the beginning of the debate – on the background of the same proposal, a debate that in this case you did start as a group proposing the proposition of the law. In any case, the order is by virtue, as has been done other times, on entry, I insist, of the documents to the Register, and, therefore, correspond, in the first place, to the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Therefore, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.204.0	Thank you, President. To defend the arguments and the final position of our party in relation to this proposal of law, which, after the presentation of the arguments, will explain the ponent, that has been the..., the Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode, can we not? Yesterday, we say, there has been an increase in young wards, there is an increase in young wards, in the last two years, and there is also a logical increase in the number of young wards; there is a decrease in the number of benefits paid by young wards who are over three years old and who therefore have this right, and, on the other hand, there is an increase in the number of short-term benefits in young wards who do not have the right to the initial benefit. And, basically, the purpose of the law is to extend the system of benefits, so as to prevent a name every time more of these young people from being without any benefit and, therefore, from being in a situation of extreme vulnerability. Our parliamentary group presented four papers, of which we will withdraw three, for the benefit of a compromise that has been made by other groups and that we will share, and the one that would remain alive has also been dealt with by the layman, right? So, we'll say the numbers of the papers that we're going to withdraw, but basically we asked that we keep the top of the performance for the last twenty-one years and it's kept... if it was three years of demand, three years of guardianship, we asked it to be two years. The transaction that comes up says that it can reach the twenty-three; that there is a review, certainly, in the twenty-two, and also that, in the accounts of the two years that we proposed, it is a year of guardianship as required for this performance. We'll give them support. And, in relation to the other parameter, which is that of..., for these young people who do not meet these requirements, extend the performance, let's say, short-term of six months, as it was until now, extend it to one year. And to this, therefore, obviously, as it has also been dealt with with by our task, we will support it. So, I think it's a good thing that all of the pleas came to this agreement or a majority of the chamber came to this agreement so as to improve these benefits and prevent every time younger ones from being in a situation of extreme vulnerability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.205.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the return of Mr Raúl Moreno. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.206.0	Well, thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the initial purpose of this bill was to guarantee a benefit to extolled young people who have been divided for up to twenty-three years. Why till twenty-three? Because in this way we made it possible for those people, those young extolls who are still in a situation of social exclusion to ask for guaranteed citizenship income. This was the objective, to cover that hole that was being given in our protection system at those times, that the entities had asked for and that we considered to be positive; to ensure this service, whenever the insertion programs are followed and, therefore, this young person is making a way to its integration, in the case of a person who is not integrated, or in his own training. And, therefore, while one is making this effort in a very complicated situation, we considered that the Administration had to be able to accompany it with this performance. That doesn't mean that the drain up to twenty-three, but that, if it's a good job integration pocket, that person, a working time, therefore, would stop this performance. This was the initial purpose of the proposal that Catalonia has presented in Comú Pode and that we already liked. Now, if we want to make this performance more extensive, for more years, our goal was to feel that we need to be more curious about what plans are being made, how they are being made and how they are being controlled, because it's public money. And, therefore, here we had to make an effort, as we broadened the focus of having a better management and a better control of the situation, and, therefore, also remain within the articulate of the law. If we extend our eyes too, let's not solve the problem with economic performance. There is insistence, housing resources, labor resources, form resources, language learning: these are the resources that will make a person, that a young person can find work in our labor market and, therefore, can have a project of proper life. But the one who makes the effort, I insist, must have the support of the Administration. Clearly, it is very difficult to stand before a law that we still have to vote on and, therefore, we will not know how it will end, depending on the votes that are produced, but we can see where they are going. And when this expectation was so high, I think it finally decapitated a little. Because some of the things that could go on after the votes are that a young man who takes custody of the government at the time, when he's in a split suit, will get the benefit until he gets it, and I'm going to get it, and that's going to get us another couple of times in the same hole. If this person, logically, continues with the programs, it could expand this performance, which is already the original law. Well, you didn't have to go all this way. That is to say, to change from three years of guardianship to one year and to say that, instead of six months, they will charge for one year, well, that is fine; but it was not the original objective that we had set ourselves, as at least from our parliamentary group. So we're gonna give it support? We'll give you support. Have we fixed the problem? No – no. We'll get back to doing another one, on a case-by-case basis. Now we have to wait to reform the guaranteed income of citizens so that they can include young people in a situation of extolls because of such... and, therefore, that they complete the conditions of guaranteed income, that is not going? - if they give it to them. I think we've missed an opportunity. Because, of course, we're more than talking about people in a very complicated situation. Can we be talking about young people with drug addiction problems who have been taken over by the Government of Catalonia, and actually some of these, in the past few years, tell them that they don't have a right to a benefit when they're on the job? We could have made a much bigger effort. Anyway, it's what we all decide on in our own votes, but I think we might have fixed the setup problem, we might have given it a lot easier, and the thing will end as it ends. We... I insist, our vote will be favorable, but I think we all have to try to make some self-criticism, because we're changing a law, huh? She's not a young lady, she's a law that should last a long time. And, therefore, I believe that we must also have a much clearer and much wider view than we want for our country, especially for young extolls. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.207.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group now, Deputy David Bertran has the word. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.208.0	Well, thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillors, in this reform of the law that we are dealing with during this plenary, we are talking about the difficulties that we young people have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.209.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.210.0	...today. I've already spoken about it, I've already commented on it in my intervention yesterday: a great deal of up to 30_per_cent; problems with housing, with emancipation; we have to say that, as Mrs Ribas said, one_third of the senseless are young, and many of them are young extolled; we have to say that training, therefore, has serious shortcomings for what it does for school children, for which it makes it possible to develop professional training of quality... And, as we say, so, there's this extra difficulty if we find ourselves talking more about young people who don't have a family reunion, which is a long time ago that they can overcome all these adverse socio-economic complexities. Therefore, as we say today, we are promoting and fighting for equal opportunities for all young people, regardless of who has lived or whose family has lived. And we want to do it by encouraging effort and thus avoiding marginality and indigence. Therefore, we have listened to the social educators, who have told us that one thing that would be very important to achieve, therefore, this formation of young extolls and, in concrete terms of MENA, is that they are given more resources so that they are able to protect them and make them take advantage of their formation, because there are certainly lacks of training for which they do not only in the language, but in other areas. And, for example, they seem to us to be good examples – I, soc of the province of Lleida... –, therefore, the initiatives of the foundation Pagesos Solidaris and the entity Atlas Lleida, which are trying to form these young people because they can work in the camp and in which it is the field of agriculture, which is something that to my businesses, in my province, is very necessary, and they want to do it in coordination with the Generality. Therefore, this is good things to achieve, so that these young people, striving, can come to develop a life project and benefit us all. So I'd like to appreciate the good will of Marta Ribas and the commons to trade the 1 bis point, which, therefore, goes in the line of reviewing that the young extolled are following the guidelines of good behavior and social work insertion that, well, define these competent organs of the Administration in twenty-one years, right? , this size at twenty-one years, to see if it continues with this performance until twenty-three. He also said that, therefore, we would vote in favour of the CSP transactional approach, because these insertion programs are updated annually, as well as the allocation of the necessary resources because they can be completed. And, finally, we would also vote for the compromise between the governing parties, the People's Party and the common parties, because in the context of the reform, right? ... taking into account that in the end this implies a better, that it is not, therefore, as it was proposed at the beginning, but that it is a better as it does not require the current three years of compulsoryity, and at least these young people who do not complete the year tend right to these performances for a year. And I would like to say that, in any case, we have already shown that we are for equal opportunities, and I would like, therefore, to refer to certain comments that were made yesterday, to ensure that we are for this equal opportunity for everyone, to come from where we came from, and I would like you not to be unaware of things that are not things that we defend. And it's very hard – it's very hard – what has been said by members of your government, and I won't repeat them, because, so, they've already said it many times, but we're still aware of what he said and did each other and of who the president of the generality is and who his writings have been. Therefore, taking this into account, we will vote in favour, so these transactions that I have commented on. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.211.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Congresswoman Marta Vilalta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.212.0	Okay. Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Counselor. We started the plenary yesterday, precisely debating the proposed amendment of Law 13/2006, of social benefits, said: "We do well, we do well, because we share and share and continue to share the need to improve the protection and the follow-up of young extolls and, therefore, work for this equality of opportunity, which is obviously necessary. And it has been shown that this is not the way to do it, that this is not the best way to process a law and a change of a law, because it is neither so simple nor so simple to do it, because it can have the time necessary and sufficient, without extending it endlessly, it is obvious, but it can have the time necessary and enough to analyze all the impacts – social, economic, territorial – and contrast with the sector and with whom it is needed, so what is the impact of a legislative change. And, unfortunately, despite not agreeing with this one-reading procedure, a date approved for this chamber, so we have come round to make such statements, so that we can do this work of consensus, to ensure this follow-up in young people and also to take into account these implications and implications and, therefore, to present the statements or to decide the sentiment of the vote also taking into account all the implications. Who's the position of the Republican Group? Well, therefore, the priority is to be able to guarantee the transition to adult life and how we therefore ensure that the arrival at the same age is produced in the best possible way and that this equality of opportunity and the follow-up that is still needed are continued. Therefore, in part, the discussions we have presented have gone to extend this world of young people. How do we do that? So downgrading from three to one year the period in which we have to be in the protection system; three years is the present, one year is what we propose with the reviews. And we pose a year because it's a time when mostly young people are already in the system; therefore, it's not an impossible penalty or a request; even at the arrival of young migrants only they are tending to arrive every time at a more advanced age, for which, therefore, they enter before the protection system and they do complete this year that is now to be introduced as required. And then why this performance, so it's a help that goes off while the young people are on an insertion program, so a plan of emancipation, which starts to start, starts to do before the break-up years, to do this better follow-up, and, therefore, everything that can be done before..., better to continue working after. That said, for all those young people who entered the system later and, therefore, for those who could not be a year in the protection system when they completed the split years, we arrived at a transaction, so that, in place of the provision for only six months, for a time of only six months, they could do so for a time of twelve months. And that's a good thing, because... the rest of the companies have already said that, that's a good thing. As I said, this was the logic of how we make this transition to adulthood, how we extend the universe, and therefore avoid that there is a beginning to the entrance of this service, which is, a little, the situation we have found ourselves today, so as to avoid that any young or the least possible young people... therefore avoid that any young people are left out. From here on, the second priority we've worked on is how we guarantee these young people emancipation a couple of years ago. And with the other three items we went back to setting the limit at the age of twenty-one, but with some exceptions, so that, when necessary, we can rule out, we can extend it, so as to extend it to twenty-three, with the will to ensure this success in emancipatory transitions. And this is what the proposed Member knows, that here we have made various compromise proposals, to show this will that, when it is not possible for this emancipation process to take place at twenty-and-three, we have made proposals on the table because it can be extended to twenty-and-three. Therefore, it was not an impediment, the fact of making twenty-one years. Ideas that we've put on the table to be able to trade. So that it is extended, in all those young people of twenty-one years who are still doing post-compulsory studies, until twenty-three; we extend it to all those young people who are doing job insertion processes; we extend it to all those who have a favorable report for the competent organ, in this case on behalf of the Generality. Why? Because the object is not to splice services; this as at least is not our object, splice services one after the other, which is a care system. We want to guarantee rights and, therefore, the right also to build the young people's life project. And doing so in this way is to ensure that we work for the rights, not to make a system that simply guarantees care for our young people. Here, unfortunately, it has not been possible to reach an agreement. And in this case, even though our proposal was similar to that presented by Ciutadans, the commons, Catalonia in Comú We may have preferred to agree this point with Ciutadans in place of Esquerra Republicana, as they will do tomorrow at the Barcelona Assembly. In any case, we will vote in favour of the proposals we have put forward and of the compromise, and, whatever happens, we will devote ourselves to continuing to work to ensure this equal opportunity, to do well and to work the rights for everyone. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out]] And all the rights...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.213.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.214.0	... – I finish – all the rights: the social, but also the politicians and the civilians. Because the rights are indestriable, and not everyone here can say the same. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.215.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Gemma Geis has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.216.0	Well, good afternoon, deputies, deputies. As he pointed out in the first term, therefore, Mr Moreno, we pointed out yesterday that this change with a single reading did not allow us to address in the background, which we certainly share..., and of the transactions that we have presented and of the debates that we have had I believe we share many initiatives in which we may have reached some kind of agreement. In some areas we have arrived; in others, no. But I think that today, when we finish the vote, we will certainly not all be happy, because, as Mrs Vilalta said, I think that we could have agreed on much more points, more policies, to look more rigorously at what we are approving. That said, therefore, we, like the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, what we have defended is that this service of those persons who are guardians of the Generality or extolls, this process of emancipation ended in twenty-one years, but with the door open. Who's the open door we've been defending and trying to deal with common people? What open doors? So the doors open in case there's a report that you believe there's no situation yet for emancipation and, therefore, it still needs this support; in the second term, because they're already due in term, in course, some studies, right? , a post-compulsory regulated formation, or, for example, shield, let's say, up to twenty-three years, from twenty-two to twenty-three years, this possibility. We have agreed with Congresswoman Ribas. We have not been able to settle them, because, as Mrs Vilalta said, she has reached a compromise agreement with Citizens and not with us. Therefore, we proposed to guarantee these twenty-one years and to guarantee these open doors so that the service is not completed in twenty-one years, but in different but justified cases it is possible to expand. And, on the other hand, in the case of all those people who did not emancipate themselves and who were under the custody of the Generality, but did not exist within a year, so what we did defend is that the provision, in six-month accounts, widened to the twelfth. Therefore, these were the two ideas that we have worked on in this legislative change, it is the agreements that we have reached with the transactions that we have presented, that we have not been able to reach an agreement with common, that we would have liked to have reached it, and above all that we would like to finish from Juntes per Catalunya is what we started yesterday. If we ask for rigor, we say that this legislative amendment was a piece of legislation, because I don't solve the problem of funds – it is to say, counsel, when we have this approved amendment, we don't solve the problem of funds – it shows us once more the position we held yesterday, that this is a debate that will be, a debate that cannot be made on time changes, and that we are sure that it will be better and better today, because what interests us is rigor, which interests us is the effectiveness, efficiency and evaluation of this public policy, which, as we have done today, will not succeed. Therefore, we hope to continue working, because it is not the end of this problem. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.217.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, and to position herself, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.218.0	Yesterday, when we started the debate on this one-reading bill, I asked them a question: how many children do they have around the ages and have the peace and security that they can emancipate themselves and be completely autonomous economically, without any kind of help? This is very difficult to do today for a young person of any kind, especially for a young person who has the most disadvantages, such as extolled young people. And that's why, this law: it goes about the emancipation and emancipation possibilities of our young people, especially those with situations of greatest vulnerability and with a higher risk of social and economic exclusion, such as the extolled young people. The consequences, too, I said yesterday, are clear and visible: on the street of Barcelona, one-third of the people without a foothold are already young, especially extolled young people. In Catalonia we have this service via Llei 13/2006, many years ago, which is an economic service, but also educational, legal, psychological support, for young extolls, but we can adapt it to the current reality, because it is clear that it is not effective enough. And this was the object of this law: to adapt it, to eliminate the requirement to be at least three years under the protection of the Generality in order to be able to access this service, and to update it, to increase from twenty-one to twenty-three years the age to which it may be entitled, so that we also update and adapt to the elimination of the minimum income of insertion at the time, for the appearance of the guaranteed income of citizenship. Well, that was the object of the law, and these are the two points on which we have been negotiating with the rest of the groups. Ours was a proposal of maximum, we were not aware, but we thought it was necessary. We are glad that you have important supports in this chamber, of a large majority of this chamber, this very proposal of as many as we have already proposed. But they weren't enough. It would not have prospered, the proposal of maximum, if we had left it untouched. So, yes, we've negotiated. We have entered into the negotiation, and our parliamentary group will accept, will vote for a joint motion for Catalonia and the Republican Left because, therefore, there is a reduction of the current three years, necessary for the protection of the Generality to access the benefit, to a year. We prefer that you do not exist for a year, but we will accept this concern in the face of this negotiation and make it viable that the law is approved and then implemented. There is a transaction with Juntes for Catalonia and Esquerra and with the People's Party as well, which is that the young people who wear less than a year in the custody of the Generality are not left in the void and have a help that is twelve months, and not of themselves, as it is today, this extraordinary help, because there is at least a certain margin to be able to make this transition to adult life. And also a transaction with Ciutadans to look at the first point, which is in which we extend the benefit to twenty-three years, from twenty-one to twenty-three, but that there is a review to twenty-one about whether the conditions continue to feel the right. And no, it's not the same as the city they were offering us Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia. It is not the same as the law says that the performance is up to twenty-three, and to twenty-one, but there is a review, that the law says that the performance is up to twenty-one and will have exceptionalities to extend it to twenty-three, it is not the same. And this transaction with Citizens can do the majority enough in this Parliament to prosper. And, therefore, even though they are not the maximum we have, we are going to make it workable to approve in this Parliament. I understand, Mr. Geis, that you are not happy, because this Parliament will approve of something that you did not want to add to the law. We don't get the maximum, but it is an important adventure to update the performance already in place to the current reality, to ensure more options for development in your emancipation and integration processes of these young people, but also to put more tools in place to keep them out. We thank the entities and professionals who have helped us to make this law and also to keep the contents, right? In order to be able to evaluate the papers of the other groups for this law and to arrive at the point of the day, and to follow them by doing what we will also continue to do: to demand from the Government good and sufficient active policies of occupation from the SOC, because otherwise there is no emancipation; to demand the modification of the Foreign Law, because it is the great obstacle that there can really be a process of normalized life, and to demand that the guaranteed income of citizenship, from its rule, understand that there are exceptionalities of many types, among others also that of young extolls, who must be able to access, when they require, this service. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.219.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the words of the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.220.0	That we can discuss today, and certainly approve, contents like those that come to mean that it expands up to the twenty-three years this service for extutelates, for a band, and we will see in what format – and we imagine it – the reduction of the criteria from three years to one year – and what was initially raised is that there are no criteria – from the time of protections in relation to the different years, insofar as it is positive and better the condition of young and young extutelates and extutelases. And, therefore, we want to do this first place recognition to the proposing group, because, obviously, it does not solve the whole problem – the same proposing group has already said – but it means a little advent. Small advances to the most vulnerable sectors of society are always to aggravate. We move forward, and we don't give time with two minutes and I can explain why, that we would vote against the papers all the time, but we would try to explain – and it's also difficult – why we would take certain votes in relation to the three transactions. First transaction, which refers to the Citizens' Group. Look, if you read the literal of this transaction, you see that you want to assess – which is what we will certainly end up approving – the three years before we extend, and someone could come to understand that this can condition the extension. We've been telling each other today that we don't think he's like that. But, look, this might assume that you've had an unfair three-year performance of the previous period, but you don't have to condition the extension. And, therefore, we shall abstain; we shall not vote against it, but we shall abstain. According to the transactions, which the Socialist Group has reached. We are absolutely in agreement with the insertion program, the positive one, but at the end of this transaction it is also a reference to seeing and communicating to the Administration if they meet or fail to meet the requirements. And this, linked to the fact that the new insertion program is set up a year ago, we think it will incorporate many difficulties, due to the profile that some young extolls have, and that they may end up losing their performance. And, therefore, we will also abstain. And the third of the transactions, which refers to Grupo Popular, Grupo de Junts per Cat and Grupo Republicà, we will vote against it for a question, first, political, and second, legal. Politics for us is the determining factor. Look, requiring it at the end of time of care – in this case, one year – because it is in relation to benefits can be a hint of indirect discrimination, which would affect more specifically the collection that we want to protect, which is a part, not all, of young extolls: the people migrated. And we say this with a political criterion, but we also think that it is a requirement that directives from the European Union, the European Union in which we do not trust, but when there are rights that they can clearly recognise, we invoke them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.221.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. We shall vote on the reports submitted. The voting order of these items will be article by article, following the order and numbering of items appearing in the plenary file, carried by those items that have been traded and that we will vote at the end. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.222.0	Yes; to announce the withdrawal of items 1, 5 and 9.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.223.0	1, 5 and 9 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. All right. Okay, so... [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Roldán, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.224.0	Yeah, we'll take the number four.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.225.0	Four, all right. Okay. [[Pause.]] So let's start voting. As soon as item number 1 has been withdrawn, we shall proceed to vote on item number 2, tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republic, amending item 1 of the single article. The vote begins. The item number 2 was rejected by 63 votes in favour, 69 against and no abstentions. We now proceed to vote..., item number 3_has been dealt and we will vote at the end; item number 4 has just been withdrawn; item 5, too; therefore, we proceed directly to vote item number 6, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà, adding to item 2 of the single article. The vote begins. The item number 6 was adopted by 87 votes to 44, with no abstentions. The item number 7, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has been negotiated and we will vote for it at the end. The issue number 8 of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republican Parliamentary Group has also been dealt with, so we will also vote on it at the end. The item number 9 has been removed. We shall therefore proceed to vote on item 10, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà, adding a new point, 4a, to the single article. The vote begins. The item number 10 was adopted by 80 votes to 52, with no abstentions. The item number 11, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has been negotiated and we will also vote for it at the end. We shall therefore proceed to vote on item 12, tabled for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà, amending item 5 of the single article. Esmena number 12. Put your vote on. The vote begins. The item number 12_has been rejected by 63 votes in favour, 69 against and no abstentions. Let us now vote on item 13, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and Parliamentary Group Republicà, abolishing the first transitional provision. The vote begins. This item, number 13, was adopted by 88 votes to 44, with no abstentions. Next... we will now vote on the three transactional issues that have been presented. In the first place, the transactional emena of modification of the new point 1a of the emena 3, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The vote begins. This item was adopted by 65 votes to 4, with 61 abstentions. We are now voting on the transactional amendment of the new 2a point of the 11th item of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. The vote begins. This compromise was adopted by 65 votes in favour, against and 67 abstentions. We continue to vote on the transactional move to modify the new 2a point with item 8, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà, and item 7, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, which would become the new 2b point. The vote begins. This compromise was adopted by 128 votes to four, with no abstentions. And finally, we are voting now on the rest of the text of the bill's proposal and the joint initiative. The vote begins. The proposed law amending Law 13/2006, social benefits of economic character, was approved unanimously, 132 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Thank you. We suspend the session until four o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.226.0	Let us resume the session with the agenda item, which is the question to the Government on the maintenance of road infrastructure, presented by the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. [[Question to the Government on the maintenance of road infrastructure]] [[300-00143/12]] And to expose the inquiry has the word of Congressman Eduard Pujol. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Order, order... [[Strong laughs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.227.0	Well, thank you, Vice President. Counselor, Members of Parliament... Honourable Councillor Calvet, today we are talking about reelings, mobility, territorial balance, but we are leaving a first point of general character – they are very simple numbers, you will see –: this country bears a tax deficit of 16,500_million euros each year, a figure that, multiplied by God, is vertiginous. Every year, in Catalonia they go ahead and don't make 165,000_million euros. With these millions of euros invested, dedicated to Catalonia, and not shone among the capricious and arbitrary designs of the Spanish State, this country, councillor, would shine. We would be the most pointers among the pointers, the most cults among the cults; the most devellates among the devellates, said in a poetic way. Concretely said, the trains, the reelers, the airports, the ports, the search centers, the university, the attention to the third sector would shine; the hospitals, the libraries, the batting institutes, the barracks, and the prefabricated classrooms would shine history. This country, without a fiscal deficit of 165,000_millions every two years, would shine, dedicating ourselves to what we are: a state-of-the-art country – a state-of-the-art country – when it was over with the sense of time. And it's clear – and I'm going into it – that the casters of Catalonia are sure, technified, intelligent, sustainable, advanced, and we'll have an excellent maintenance, which, in fact, is what I want to talk to them about. This is not the count of the letter and Matrix; this is the raw reality. Counsellor Calvet, today, I want to talk to you about the maintenance of the country's reelers, I think it's important to take this picture of the fiscal deficit, which here began to cry the creature. This late it is important to denounce this evil fiscal deficit, because the state of the reelers depends on what can be reversed, and the ill-being or the deficiencies, too. And now, ladies and gentlemen, a prec, a general prec: I know it's divenders, first hour of late, but they ask them to imagine. Imagine that here, at my side... I don't know if here on the right or here on the left, but imagine that here, at the rostrum, there is now a virtual map as that of the electoral nits of TV3, a virtual map of the country with the capil·laritat of all our reelers. Can you imagine? He sees, this map, huh? So, if you're able to see this virtual map of Catalonia, I'm sure you know how to see this huge network of filaments that reconnect it, that are the reels. These mobility arteries add up to 12 thousand kilometers. That's a lot of miles. Catalonia's reel network is twelve thousand miles long. I, of this total, six thousand kilometres depend on the Department of Territories and Sustainability. If we leave first, from this huge kilometre, 5,500_kilometres are directly managed from your department, counselor. The rest have some concessional figure, and conservation is done with a mixed management model, combining close media and outsourcing. For example, two of the large entry routes to Barcelona do not respond to any concession. I am talking about the C-17, Barcelona-Vallès Oriental-Osona-Ripollès, and the C-58, Barcelona-Vallès Occidental-Bages; they are two very important lives. And, in the band, there are also twenty-i-seven tunnels of more than five hundred meters in length that can be found within the country, such as the tunnels to Oliana, the tunnel of Bracons, Parpers, or the Amadeu Torner, to the Hospitallet, here at C-31, which have comprehensive contracts that deal with all conservation operations. The Generality has a network of reelers, counselors, of very different characteristics, as you know it. With traces coming from the Prat de la Riba Commonwealth, from the Pujol governments, from the design and execution of the eighty-first and most recent years, from the Maragall government – now it makes me think of Councillor Nadal – that connect Central Catalonia with the Mediterranean through the C-15: Manresa, Igualada, Vilafranca, Vilanova. But now I wouldn't want to lose in a Trivial mena of our reelers; now I just wanted to get to a series of questions, counselor, that are cabdals. Counselor, we have said maintenance parks distributed across the country – said – that work to ensure the safety of users from the conservation and maintenance of our reelers. How fan is he, these conservation jobs? Which external contracts have the department dedicated to the conservation of reelings? How many do we have? And when did they bid? Counselor, with you we share that the maintenance of the reels is sacred. That's why they ask for more information, more concrete. Who are the management systems available to the Directorate-General for Mobility Infrastructures? And, going further down the detail and demanding ambition and effectiveness on an equal footing, how many millions of euros are going to be allocated to these own years? Maintaining, therefore, is basic, but transforming – transforming – is the verb that, in the politics of tangibles, has me more obsessed. It is the verb that, well applied, will leave a more important arrival to our children and to our future generations. For this reason, and taking advantage of the fact that in this plenary and these last few days, these last forty-four hours, we have been talking about the supercomputer of the UPC, which is a very important investment, let's say that, more than keeping – which is an obligation – to make an effort in this direction – which is an obligation – we must never lose sight of the fact that, in a world of technology change, it is time to transform. And that this idea of transformation also has to bring technology in an uncomplicated way to our reels. And that's not about political colors or accumulated deficits – today I'm not talking about accumulated deficits –; that's about the future. From the future, because today there are solutions that we can apply to our infrastructures that were absolutely unimaginable only four days ago. And in the country of UPC, Mobile, data, supercomputing, startups, we have the obligation to introduce technology to our reels. Advanced technology came together, in the object of this inquiry. We want Catalonia to have a very good maintainer of our tracks, because maintainer wants to be secure. Counsellor Calvet, I insist, we need quality infrastructure. We need recumbent wards. And why? For ease, yes, clear – for ease –: driving with goodies is not pleasant, especially for those who like to drive. By security, yes, of course: a bony, an asphalt made evil, goes against our security. What's the use of a car with all the world's technology if we don't know how to get it to work or if the state of the road is playing against it? From scratch. For all these reasons, safety, risk reduction, convenience, journey time, comfortable driving time in this same journey, but above all because having good paths is to guarantee opportunities, for all this, we need to have impeccable infrastructures. And one last thought: to take care of the country of opportunity that President Tora drew in this Parliament today, we must also take care of the conjunction of small reelers, which do not support large volumes of traffic, but which, surely self-denial, reconnect the country to us. These lives also need to be immaculate, because, as President Tora said yesterday, we must maintain a country that is alive, sustainable and with territorial balance. In this sense, and in the end, I hold on to a reflection of another councillor, of Councillor Puigneró, whom you know well, answer to an inquiry by Mr Solsona for days. Counselor Puigneró, advisor of Digital Policies of the Government, and therefore, guarantor of the country's access tomorrow, said to us: « A road kilometre, an asphalt kilometre, makes us reach the people of the coast– and it is certain –; « an optical fiber kilometre makes us reach the whole world. Well, this bet for the vanguard, this bet because Catalonia makes Catalonia, it's the key to everything. This bet is to lead a country of transformation and opportunity; as you say, a better country. That this optical fiber allows us to compete with any raccoon in the country, but – and this is also our responsibility this late – that a road kilometre in bad condition, or a dangerous kilometre, does not bring us back to the 20th century. That a poorly cared road_kilometre does not force anyone to rethink their life-saving project. We have an obligation to bring 21st-century technology to all directions, and we have an obligation that, in all directions, people see it and move very well. Counselor, deputies and deputies, we are pioneers, we are leading, we are leading. Roadblocks and arm technology, to serve a noble, structural and essential objective for Catalonia: to bring about the territorial balance of the country, a territorial balance that is certain, that is tangible and, above all, that is sustainable. Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.228.0	Thank you, Mr. Pujol. Then, to answer the question, has the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.229.0	President, Members and Members, Councillor... Mr. Deputy, Mr. Eduard Pujol, many thanks; many thanks for the rigorous, detailed description that you have made of the network of reels and the need that this network of reels is, therefore, in good condition of maintenance. He's been very clear, very understanding and very demanding, and I appreciate the demand. Go ahead – and I think it is essential that we do – the recognition of concretely 382 workers dedicated to the conservation and maintenance of our network of reelers. They ensure their state at all times, twenty-four hours of the day, 365 days a year, snow or rain, whether it's August 15 or generation 1. Thank all of them and all of them for this work. These teams are due in time to what we call the conservation tasks planned for the territorial service of government reelers, so that they are kept in this good state that we want, in this good state that we demand. On the other hand, we have attention to incidents and emergencies. For these other tasks, for the attention of incidents and emergencies, we obviously count on the joint work of Mossos d'Esquadra, Bombers, SEM or even of the same workers in the department, which, in their surveillance procedures, detect if there has been any circumstance that alters the conditions of safety, and that, therefore, there is some incidence. All of this is reported to the Vic Carreter Control Center – the CCCV – of the Government, from where the guard teams are mobilized, a control center to which you also referred. Dades, because an idea is coming up: only the year 2018, the past year, from the Center for Control of Reels were managed more than 63,000 tricks. That's a half 172 a day. These 63,000 tricks for various incidents – on many occasions they are produced on a single site – have resulted in 9,168 incidents, which have obviously been attended to by emergency teams, from the attention of accidents to the removal of animals or operations related to the winter route – this is also a theme, which is especially concerned with them. It's some of the issues that these teams face. You asked me for concrete knowledge of what external contracts we dedicate to the conservation of reelers, and I'll tell you: now we're in thirty. I'm going to relate them. He calls for semi-integral conservation contracts that are associated with reel parks. We have said: Argentona, Viladecans, Sabadell, Equalized, Berga, Vic, Girona, Glasses, Bianya, Lleida, Solsona, Bridges, Tremp, Esterri, Reus, Montblanc i Tortosa. These are the road parks, which have the facilities that allow us to make this semi-integral conservation by means of these contracts. Three comprehensive conservation contracts, which are tunnel contracts: the Barcelona Est, the C-17 and the attached roadway, and the Barcelona West, around the C-58. Five contracts for the conservation of hortizonal senyalization. And five lightning conservation contracts and semaphoric installations. This is the set of contracts. The existing contracts, which are currently in operation, were tendered between the years 2013 and 2014 for a total import of 222_million euros. This was the bidding import for a three-year period, extendable three more years, which involved an annual endowment for the conservation of the six-thousand– you also referred to – miles of road of 74_million a year for the bidding import. What I'm going to say now is substantial. Between the bidding and the bidding, logically, the companies submit their bids and, concretely, the bidding import did not produce for these 74_millions, but it did produce for 55_millions of euros per year. Therefore, this is the xifra that we have been spending on semi-integral conservation, in each of the contracts, along these last few years. All these contracts are currently in the extension period, so that the procedures for a new tender for conservation contracts have begun. I wanted to make an impact on the bidding and bidding format for which I will continue to say. It's substantial, because it's the paradigm shift that we've been applying since the department, with this innovation requirement that you were claiming and that will help us keep our paths even better. By the year 2010, the department, in the band of this semi-integral conservation program, also had an extraordinary conservation of some €70_million per year. This figure was practically reduced to zero, so it was an important figure, before 2010, in order to be able to cope with a whole series of repositioning and conservation actions, as the same word says, extraordinary. We didn't take care of the department's own services. We couldn't keep this assumption, but we didn't keep our arms folded, logically. We also applied all the capacity for innovation and I would say compromise with the work of the civil servants and the civil servants in the Department of Territories and, concretely, of the people of career. We implemented more digital, more technological support management systems, than no contract, for the better management of the road network. For example, a firm management system, a structure management system, a geotechnical asset management system; these are some examples of the management systems of which we have at the General Directorate of Mobility Infrastructures. There's more, huh? , the inventory of functional elements, of outcrops, of follow-up of fleets, of incidences, of communications of work, the catalog of reelers... A whole system, insistent, digital, technological, that we have developed since the department, but that after that in fact with the Polytechnic University of Catalonia – connects also with a part of its intervention – until the point that, with these systems that we have been applying, developing, can make until and all very reliable predictions of which will be the states of the farms from here to five years. So, it's there, with these predictions, where we have to invest, reperiodize the reversal and also quantify the reversal. Examples of management optimization of the resources available in this conservation management are an exhibition of the department's clear willingness to authentically digitize the management of our reels, something you demanded of us. I insist, we did not have these prerequisites for extraordinary conservation, but we put all the added value, all the knowledge, all the innovation capacity of the same department. And now I'm going to talk about the new model of reel preservation, the one that we had now in force, with contracts that we've been bidding for for some quantities but which we've been awarding, as is normal in all the award, for an import, so it was the one that the contractors presented, because here there is innovation and also, by sum up, the capacity that we will have from the government, from the department, to deal with this better need to have better reels. We intend to recover the conservation reversal prior to 2010 and we will bid external contracts, these semi-integral conservation, for an import of 107_millions per year for a four-year extension period of one year. One hundred and seven million per year for four years, even though they are extendable, brings us to the xifra for which we are bringing these contests. It's a non-minor xifra: 429,2_million euros, a xifra that I want to highlight, because it adds, in all this, all this knowledge and this will of innovation that we have been developing from the same department. And what's the novelty we have of the system we've been bidding on – the system we're currently managing to conserve reel – 2013 and 2014? It is that the rebates on tender imports will remain in the contracts, so that, for tender imports similar to those of the existing contracts, we can act on more kilometres of reels. That is to say, we double the presuppositional endowment dedicated to the ordinary conservation: if the year 2013 we have tendered contracts worth 74_millions, which have allowed us to invest in conservation 55_millions of euros per year, then we will bid contracts worth 107_millions of euros per year, which will allow us to invest in conservation 107_millions of euros per year– double, from 55 to 107. This is the novelty, this is the way we want to deal with some of the department's needs for better conservation, but also associated with this capacity for innovation and digitalization of the road network. Another great novelty is that we want to enhance specialisation as well as small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector. For this reason, in addition to bidding for the renewal of the thirty contracts that we had until now, we will be bidding for twenty extraordinary, specialized contracts, so that we will have a total of fifty-two ordinary conservation contracts. Who are these specialized additional contracts that will provide us with this innovation capability that you claimed? Contracts for the conservation of farms, for the conservation of structures, for the conservation of geotechnical activities, those that during these years in which we did not have extraordinary conservation contracts..., we have been, therefore, having innovative tools developed from the same department, and, what is more important, also linked with the Polytechnic University of Catalonia. It is, therefore, a matter of not having a vision exclusively focused on maintenance and conservation – you claimed – but in the measure that resources and new forms of contracts allow us to act further beyond mere repositioning. I'm done. To say that the whole tendering system will also obviously take into account ratings focused exclusively or largely on technical criteria and that, moreover, we also take part in these competitions with social clauses. For example, the existing semi-integral conservation contract in Igualada Park already responds to a reserve for special social initiative centres, insertion companies, and we will maintain that. So, therefore, social clauses, also in this very serious subject. I want to emphasize that the contracts that we will start bidding on in the multiannual framework approved by the Government a few weeks ago will allow us to move forward in this model that you were demanding of modernization and continued improvement, a strong digitization, bet for the digitization of the management of our careers, which allows us to ensure the functionality and – you were also demanding – the security of the joint of the network, absolute priorities of the department. To add – and I finish, President – that all this we want to link, obviously, with the system of management of the high-capacity road network that we call "vinyeta", because part of the tickets per vinyeta also have to go to improve the conservation of reelers, and that all this also connected – there is a reference to the councillor Puignero – to digital policies, with pioneering systems of development 5G to some of the main arteries of our country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.230.0	Thank you, Counselor. I understand there's no reply at this point? [[Pause.]] [[Question to the Government on the conclusions of the UN opinion on Catalan political prisoners]] [[300-00146/12]] We would therefore turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the item on the agenda, the question to the Government on the conclusions of the UN opinion on the Catalan political prisoners, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group and which Mr Ruben Wagensberg will continue to present.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.231.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor, Members, Members, as you know, and even though he wanted to go through high school and discredit two weeks ago – on May 28th, if I may not recall correctly – the United Nations Arbitrary Detention Task Force issued an opinion calling for the immediate release of the Catalan prisoners and political prisoners who had brought their case to trial. The opinion is very clear, very hard and direct to the Spanish State and is asked to release the three independent leaders – Jordi Cuixart, Jordi Sánchez and Oriol Junqueras – because he considers his detention arbitrary and violates the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. The report notes that Cuixart's conduct, Sánchez and Junqueras, was not only not violent, but consisted of a peaceful exercise of his rights. The criminal charges against the leaders of Catalan civil society and politicians are aimed at coercing them for their political opinions respecting Catalonia's independence and preventing them from continuing to work with this objective. It also states that it is judicious for exercising the rights of freedom of opinion, expression, association, assembly, political participation, all of them gathered in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; that not only preventive detention is unjustified, but it is not judicial; that it is a court that violates the presumption of innocence; that detention is arbitrary and cannot be found to have legitimate and proportionate grounds for restricting human rights; that working group, moreover, insists on the peaceful behaviour of the accused. He also says that he is a judge who violates the right to a competent and impartial court. He considers that the defendants have not had enough time to prepare their defences, and finally asks the Spanish Government, first, that they be released immediately, that compensation for the damage caused and that they carry out a thorough investigation of this arbitrary deprivation of liberty and take action against those responsible for this violation of rights. We are, therefore, talking about an opinion emanating from the exhaustive work of a working group on arbitrary detention, which has as its main responsibility to investigate cases of deprivation of liberty imposed arbitrarily in which the rules laid down to international law in the field of human rights are violated. The reaction of the Government of the Spanish State has been to try to discredit this mechanism of human rights of the United Nations. In fact, he has sent a formal complaint questioning the content and validity of this resolution. He has tried to cast doubt on the impartiality of the members of the Working Group against Arbitrary Detention, who, to this end, are independent experts appointed for the Human Rights Council through a rigorous selection procedure to ensure impartiality, independence and expertise of its members. This is the show of how it has been decided to dispense with international bodies and international public opinion and to stop at escalating independence. The Spanish Government, before this pronouncement, which does not like because it determines that arbitrary detentions have occurred that violate human rights, in denial of import, and makes it enter into a great contradiction, because – and these days have been said – for example, the year 2015 are the end of the resolution of the same working group on arbitrary detentions that required the Venetian Government to release the opponent Leopoldo López, both the PSOE and the People's Party have demanded that the Government come the left on freedom comply with the requirements of the same body that is now demanding the freedom of Sánchez, Cuixart and Junqueras. If it is about Venice, then it seems that it does have validity and has to demand its compliment. But it looks like we're in front of a demand for rights to the card, doesn't it? Why, when it affects third countries, yes, right? We go, but when it's about ourselves, when the recommendations are about our own state, then what we do is try to discredit it. Irene Lozano, the current secretary of the State of Global Spain, former UPyD deputy, argues that the task of the five experts members of the working group has been somewhat rigorous and that they are victims of a new campaign of disinformation of more radical independence. However, it may be recalled that the Supreme Court itself recognized, in a human rights ruling on November 2018, that the United Nations resolutions must be complied with and enforced, and, moreover, the Court stated that "there is no penalty for incompliment does not mean that Spain, as a member of the United Nations, can circumvent the agreements and recommendations of the body and bodies that are linked to it. For many years we have seen how international bodies have dictated resolutions and decisions that repudiate the actions of the Government of the Spanish State and place it in evidence in the violation of human rights. For example, in a report by the United Nations Task Force on Enforced Disappearances. The Spanish State also obtained bad notes in the reports of international bodies, among others, respecting human and civil rights – with particular attention to the repression of independence and the escalating protection of minorities or women –, the independence of the judicial system, anti-corruption measures, racism, intolerance, the situation of people of African descent, migrants, refugees and refugees, the prevention of torture and the situation of prisoners and prisoners. Moreover, the Special Rapporteur of the United Nations for Freedom of Expression has already urged the Spanish authorities not to prosecute the Catalan independence leaders for rebellion, a crime involving sentences of up to thirty years in prison. "Accusations for rebellion," said the same rapporteur, "may lead to the risk of deterring entirely legitimate speeches. This expert was concerned about rebel charges attributed to acts that do not involve violence, or that do not incite it, because they may interfere with protest rights and political dissent. Democracies do not engage people for the freedom of peaceful expression of a political idea, and, if they do, then we might have to question ourselves whether it is democracy, or what degree of democracy it is. Before this fact, and in the week that the trial was over and we were able to listen to the latest attachments of our companies and companies, we cannot keep our arms folded and let this touch of international attention from the Spanish State become invisible to the Spanish execution, as they claim. Therefore, counselor, the question that we want to convey to you, that we want to do, from the Group of the Republic... They are two: the first is what is being done, what is being done, from the Government, to give you a look at this opinion, and the second is what consequences will have the failure, from this report, on behalf of the Spanish State. And if I may, I don't add a third, which is what, in this sense, is going to take us from there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.232.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, to answer the question, the External Action Advisor, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr. Alfred Bosch, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.233.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP Wagensberg, therefore, effectively, we share this explanation, this accurate narrative about the facts, adjusted to the reality and to what the last weeks and days have passed in relation to this opinion of the United Nations Working Group against Arbitrary Detention. We share the feeling that the pronouncement is very clear, the pronouncement of United Nations, to say that the Kingdom of Spain does not respect human rights, in this concrete case. And you say it very clearly. I will not abound in all the explanations which you have given, which are, therefore, quite exhaustive and which sense of doubt are true, but on the basis of the question, in the sense that the opinion of the working group shows that it has imprisoned it – in this case, it has been pre-emptive – has been discretionary, disproportionate and unjustified. And that is said very clearly. It's a top-level international warning to the Spanish State, and so it's serious. It requires four things very clearly, such as conclusions: immediate release of the prisoners mentioned, Sànchez, Cuixart and Junqueras – no more, because other prisoners have also followed this way later, but these are the three who were calling it, and of the three, of the three who were calling it, they have not asked for immediate release; compensation in the form of compensation is demanded; it is also asking for the opening of an independent investigation to show how this damage and this hardship could have been done, and, finally, the dissemination and dissemination of these same conclusions from which we are speaking. Therefore, the clarity of the opinion is meridian, and the petitions formulated by the United Nations are also meridian. It's a United Nations organization, it's not a group of friends, and less of our friends; I don't know any; it's like, it's not people we usually treat. Therefore, they are independent people, directly selected by the Council of Human Rights of the United Nations, which is the body responsible for vetting for human rights at international level according to the pacts and agreements signed by, among many other states of the world, the Kingdom of Spain, and incorporated into the Spanish constitutional framework through the articulation that you very well know. So, listen, this is like stopping him and giving him compliments. The United Nations, specifically this group, has issued 245 opinions like this, and, in the case of 2017, which is the last year of which we have detailed awareness, thirty-one people were released for decisions comparable to this. Very different states like Israel, the United States, Cuba, Turkey... In the case of France, for example, all the petitions for freedom of prisoners that have been formulated from this working group of United Nations, have never been questioned either the arguments or the recommendations, and a Kazakh dissident, of Kazakh origin, who was near France, was recently released, and here, so to speak, the Council of State in France did not pose any objection, simply decided that the judicial authorities... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes; yes, yes, it went like this, it's what I'm explaining to you, and if you want to document, then the documentation is available to everyone. Therefore, this report adds to other verdicts or resolutions, for example, of German justice – concretely, of the Schleswig-Holstein courts –, also of Belgian justice, the Swiss justice, of the United Kingdom, respects great differences as to the treatment given to political defendants and prisoners or to political exiles in the case of the Kingdom of Spain and other countries in the international mark. Okay. Who was the answer of the Queen of Spain? So to deny, to deny, to even ridicule, and to imply that it is not complicating the demands of the United Nations Arbitrary Detention Task Force. My hearing this is a mistake, it's a mistake of first order and first rank. The content of this statement has been questioned. The honorability of the experts was questioned. The refusal of two of these experts, when, attention..., I mean, they are appointed experts with a rigorous selection process, they are considered the best among the best – that's why they are selected – and in their time, when they were selected, there was no objection on the part of the Spanish representatives – nor one alone. When this case began, when this case began to be considered, there was no objection on the part of the representatives of the Kingdom of Spain. The content and conclusions of the report, which obviously do not please the Spanish Government or the representatives of the Spanish State... are known once and for all, when it is questioned, when it is ridiculous; it is then when the rejection of some of these members is called for. Home, I've thought about it before. If they didn't think they were competent enough, that would have been done before, not now, to know the contents of a report they didn't just like. Moreover, to finish reopening the key, on the day of the publication of the report, the prosecution and the state's attorney, to the Supreme Court, to the political courts, which have ended – the view of those courts has ended – so, the same day, the same day that this report is issued, they ask to intensify the pressure in the form of increased penalties and conditions demanded of prisoners. Nor is it certain– nor is it certain– that this report, which this pronouncement is not binding. I mean, it's obviously binding. It is binding as the Working Group against Arbitrary Detention does not impose sanctions, it has no sanctioning capacity, but clearly it is noting that the Kingdom of Spain is incomplete..., not what the working group says, it is incomplete of the pacts signed for the Kingdom of Spain in the matter of human rights. And, therefore, a pact that has voluntarily signed the same Kingdom of Spain is not complete [[Funnel veils]] – yes, that is so – and that, moreover, is incorporated into the Spanish constitutional framework, which recognizes the international covenants and treaties as part of this constitutional framework. What's going on from now on? And this shows that it is really binding: from then on, or from the issue of the opinion, the Kingdom of Spain, concretely the Spanish Government, to whom this United Nations working group is addressing, has six months to give satisfaction and compliment to the demands of the working group. It is to say, if on November 27 of enguany the Spanish State has not completed, and it seems that it does not intend to complete..., if they do not complete, if the prisoners are not released, if there is no satisfactory answer to the requests of United Nations, this report, this opinion rises to the Council of Human Rights of United Nations, which directly follows the General Assembly of United Nations. And if that is not..., through the recommendations, from the debate and the decisions taken by the United Nations Human Rights Council, if that is not followed, it can be raised to the General Assembly or to the United Nations High Commission on Human Rights so that it requires a mediation and a solution to this problem. Because Spain, according to United Nations, is not fulfilling human rights in the way that the Spanish State itself has subscribed to the pacts and international treaties that make the case. You, Mr Wagensberg, asked: "What will the Government of Catalonia do? So the Government of Catalonia will complement – the Government of Catalonia will complement. Obviously, the Government of Catalonia does not have the capacity to release prisoners, but the Government of Catalonia does have the capacity to cover as a minimum the fourth of the demands of the United Nations work group, which is to disseminate and disseminate this opinion. We're already doing it, and we'll do it, it's our obligation. We have to explain to everyone: we have to explain in this Parliament, we have to explain to any parliament in the world, we have to explain to the media, and we have to do so that the Spanish Government and the powers of the State, in the case of the Kingdom of Spain, are unable to do so, that it is to believe in the United Nations, to believe in any international decision or resolution, to believe in the international system that voluntarily, therefore, we are and have subscribed, and, therefore, to complement with what we are told by international bodies. Because we do believe in United Nations and we do believe in international institutions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.234.0	Thank you, Counselor. I understand there's no reply, either. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] [[Asking the Government about its political direction]] [[300-00148/12]] Therefore, we would move to the next item on the agenda, which is the division, the question to the Government about its political direction, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. I, to expose her, has the word Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.235.0	Well, thank you, Vice President. Today I am here to ask the Vice-President of the Generality, Mr Aragonès – I give you the good late, good evening; good late also, Vice-President, Members, Members– but I want to start by making a small point of what Mr Bosch was saying, because it went well to denounce one of the main defects of this Government, which is the lack of self-criticism and the ability to burst with an absolute impudence of fake news, lies and true myths. I believe that any professor of international law has made it clear that the only resolutions issued by the UN are those of the Security Council or, in any case, those of the General Assembly. Therefore, the only binding resolutions issued by the UN are those of the Security Council, and not those of a working group working for a UN agency. So, we're following a little serious, curious, time to say the things that you're stunning from the government, because I think it's a social responsibility of yours, the fact that you don't fool people and try to make them believe that Spain is a low-quality democracy because a UN working group says what you say and that you're interested in me saying. [[Greetings.]] What is certain is that there is a judgment – this, yes, binding – of the European Court of Human Rights which says that it is essential to suspend the plenary on October 10, in which President Puigdemont wanted to [[applause]] proclaim the separation of Catalonia from the rest of Spain. This is a judgment, and it is a judgment for violation of individual rights and freedoms in Catalonia, here in the Parliament of Catalonia, because it demands..., the European Court of Human Rights considers it a democratic requirement, the fact of suspending that Ple. We follow a little respectable with the international mark, with international legality, and we don't invent ourselves supposed to be new legitimates and legalities, which you know from that you know an estonian. Beyond that, the appearance..., logically, the inquiry is for the vice president, and I address you to talk about the direction of the government. Yesterday we saw how Mr. Torra did not make any self-criticism of his year of government; this year of government that has been a year of disgovernment, a year lost to Catalans; a year in which the only thing we have suffered from Catalans is an increase in the list of hope in sanitation, it is an increase in the number of students studying in barracks, it is an increase of the poor child to levels that are unacceptable in a region of a democratic state of law like Spain. I think, from this point of view, the government would have to do, if not, a bit of self-criticism, because this year in front of the Generality has been really distressed to live together in Catalonia. More than five thousand companies have had to flee Catalonia for their management. And these five thousand companies that have transferred their social media to other autonomous communities do so precisely because of you, Mr. Aragonès; because of you and because of Mr. Junqueras, not because of anyone else. They do not attempt to seek other culprits or to make victimistic theories of persecutions or to give guilt even to the king of Spain, as you later claim. The companies have left solely and exclusively because of their fault, but you continue to speak of a Catalonian imagination that there is nothing more than in its fiction. It is an imaginary republic as fictitious as the island of Barataria, that Don Quixot promised Sancho Panza that he would make governor. The difference between you and Sancho Panza is that when Sancho Panza saw that on that island of Barataria, that island of Barataria, he did not eat as much as he was used to eating and saw that everything was a fiction, that everything was a fallacy, resigned as the governor immediately, at the end of a week, because he noticed that he was better as he was before. So I'm saying exactly the same to you: Catalonia has become these years of process into a worse society, into a society that is fractured, into a society where there has been an economic impoverishment, a clear deterioration of coexistence, and all this is his responsibility and this year's government, too, of Mr. Torra. The only thing I think from our group we can ask is that, if not, I have a little awareness of their responsibilities in the current situation in Catalonia, in the lack of prosperity, in the lack of attraction for the people of the rest of Spain. It is obvious that you, with your speech clearly anti-Spanish, when brandishing the slogan of ''Spanisha us robs us, or branding the slogan of...', let us say, the quietest, of ''Spanisha us spoils us, or say all these things about Spain, I suppose you do not think that our main market, which is the rest of Spain, will still take it perfectly. And I'm telling you personally, Mr. Vice President, because I'm sorry to remind you that you posed with a banner that said, "Spanishy in clothes, literally. It's a speech that's comparable to the North League or other populist parties in Europe, and that's not good for the rest of Europe. And this is not the image that the Government of the Generality should project, it is not the image that should project a government that wants to be conciliatory or that wants to have a friendly and German relationship with the rest of Spain. In any case, on their responsibility for the last few years, I also have to remember that these days, in the trial against the coup against democracy that we suffered from Catalans and that starred the previous government late in 2017, some of their authors have tried to say that it was still symbolic, that it was merely declared, that it was not really real and that what it was was not what it seemed or that what it seemed was not what it was. And they have all the right, in their exercise of self-defence – the court will decide, obviously –; another thing is that this can be credible for the citizen who suffered with pain, anguish and great concern those days, or even for those other citizens of Catalonia who believed their lies, who believed that, effectively, Catalonia could be unconstitutionally separated from the rest of Spain because of illegality, which could create a new state of Europe on the margins of Spanish legality, and therefore of European legality. I would remind you that the European Commission has said on numerous occasions that the legality of a democratic state, a member of the European Union, is European law, and therefore, when a violation of the legality of the Spanish Constitution, which is what you have done in recent years, is in violation of international law and European law. So what I'm asking is, if not, a little recognition of their responsibilities in this. And, miri, Mr. Aragonès, I will today allow myself to remind you of a phrase from a historical leader of Republican Esquerra, not the phrase that everyone knows, that "in politics it is possible to make everything less ridiculous, but another phrase that was said by President Tarradellas, who wanted to be the president of all the citizens of Catalonia, and not on the part of the Catalans, wanted to be the president who withdrew the wishes of the city council of Catalonia, and said a very curious phrase, he said: "The Catalans are people who make politics effective, and not science-fiction. Well, you're the only thing that they do is do science-fiction, because they have imaginary republics, UN resolutions that don't exist, parallel legalities; all this language proves that you don't actually do effective politics, but science-fiction. By the way, the other day I remembered this phrase – quite vaguely – of President Tarradellas, this phrase that says that Catalans are people who make politics effective and not science-fiction, and I was reviewing the paper to see exactly – because I consider myself, like the rest of my group, a rigorous person – when I had said those words, Mr Tarradellas. Well, I discovered, with real regret, with real regret, that the situation in Catalonia today is the reflection of what nationalism does when it operates in a society: how it degrades coexistence, how it degrades public debate, and how it ultimately deteriorates the public life of a community like Catalonia. Those statements by Mr. Tarradellas were in Navarre, while he made an official visit to the Navarra institutions. And I will remind you of what your current Members of the European Parliament, the Lords of Batasuna, have said, for example. They named Mr Tarradellas persona non grata, because he had no right to climb the Basque land, because he had gone to Navarre to provoke. Does it sound like anything, Mr. Aragones, going to provoke Navarre? He doesn't remember when the lord [[applause]] Rivera went to Alsasua, and many members of our party went to Alsasua, asking for precise respect for freedom, respect for plurality...? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, "so, no, Mr. Pujol; if you don't like to feel what you're feeling, you have a bit of the ability to start the reviews. What is obvious is that that phrase of..., that idea of Herri Batasuna to name Mr. Tarradellas persona non grata is exactly the same as the mayors of his party with Mrs. Arrimadas and other constitutional leaders [[applause]] – exactly the same. Look, Mr. Aragonès, it's not normal for the President of the Generalitat to say that the Spanish-speaking people are fools in human form or that the Spaniards are fools who only know how to spoil; it's not normal for the President of the Generalitat to say that speaking to Catalonia is not normal; it's not exactly normal...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.236.0	Mr. Martín Blanco [[strong remorse of the eyes]] It's just...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.237.0	I read it literally. I'm asking you... [[Widow's remorse. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.238.0	One_second, one_second...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.239.0	See what you're saying. No, no, listen to him.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.240.0	One second, one second. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They are imputing to the institution of the President of the Generality things of a person who was not President of the Generality when he did them. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] And these questions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.241.0	Ah, before he was another person.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.242.0	...there have been discussions many times and they will have to re-treat the Board of Spokesmen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.243.0	No, no, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.244.0	I'll just – just – shout to the order and say it [[Funnel veils]] I just...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.245.0	You can't call him to order for that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.246.0	... – Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Vice-President – that I am running out of time – I have put up with the time, it is not worrying, I have put up with the time. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Vice President, Mr. Vice President, don't make me call you to order too. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.247.0	No, she doesn't like to hear the truth...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.248.0	Mr. Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.249.0	...and then it's me, it's not normal – it's not normal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.250.0	Mr. MP, you're running out of your intervention, with respect and a sense of courtesy at the time you use the word. [[Strong remorse of the eyes. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.251.0	Okay. Look, Mr President, I repeat to you what I said: it is not normal for the President of the Generalitat to say that the Spanish-speaking people are good fools in human form. [[Greetings.]] It's not normal for the President of the Generalitat to say that the Spaniards are only idiots who know how to steal. [[Greetings.]] And it's not normal...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.252.0	The cry to order, Mr. Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.253.0	...that the President of the Generality...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.254.0	The cry to order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.255.0	...say that the Spanish only carry vaginas [[strong remorse of the eyes]] misery in the world.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.256.0	The cry to order. Mr. García, the cry to order to you too. The cry to order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.257.0	Get back to me and cry to order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.258.0	The cry to order. [[Rialles and strong remorse of the eyes. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.259.0	It's amazing – it's amazing. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. The strong remorse of the eyes persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.260.0	If the order of the session is not kept, it shall be suspended, as provided for in the Rules. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.261.0	Suspend her, suspend her.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.262.0	Mr. García... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You're out of here, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.263.0	Home, you can't think I'm gonna end up with the minute you stole from me. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Will you respect me for the minute and a half that...? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Perfect. Well, I keep going; I won't repeat the truth any more, because it bothers you the truth, but you have to be aware of what a saying and what a thinker and what an investor president of the Generality, simply. [[Greetings.]] Look, I had an intervention with some more of Mr. Tarradellas's words that I'll remind you now, which I think is quite interesting. At a time when there was debate, the year 1981, the possibility of suppressing provincial parliaments... Mr. Pujol wanted to suppress them, and Mr. Tarradellas told Mr. Pujol: "And why do they do it? It's asked Tarradellas. And he himself, Mr Tarradellas, answered his question: "I believe that in order to trigger the campaign that is taking place and to become the victims of a situation that they themselves have created to benefit from in the next elections. This is their modus operandi: they create problems and then they present themselves as victims of these problems. It's exactly the same thing they've done now with the coup that they donated the year 2017 and what they're trying to do with the trial constantly to the prisoners of the trial. This whole way of doing it is his modus operandi. They don't know anything but victimism, and they're undermining the credibility and image of Catalonia. Thank you, honourable Members. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.264.0	Before I continue with this point of the order of the day I would like to make an appreciation, which is that several Members have asked me to make a call to the question when you started, and I wanted to explain why I didn't do it: because it never happened in this legislature. But I will transfer this question to the Board of Spokesmen, in case it is considered that they must begin to cry out to the question, say, in the various points of the order of the day. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm saying in the sense that I've been asked to, huh? Therefore, I am giving the explanation to which I have been asked because I did not do it: because it has not been done in this legislature at any time. But, as long as it has been asked, I will transfer it to the Board of Spokesmen at his next meeting. [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mrs. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.265.0	Yeah. On a point of order, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.266.0	Who's the point of order?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.267.0	It's a shame how you try to silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.268.0	No, no. You don't have the word yet. You still don't have the word. [[Greetings.]] See, Mrs. Roldán, one second. I asked him what was the point of order he wanted to ask me. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] But it's that asking a question of order is not to make a speech, it's to raise a question of order, really. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I mean, I can ask for an observance of the Rules...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.269.0	If you leave me, please, and stop interrupting us at once to me and my group...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.270.0	No, no. I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.271.0	On leave, please?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.272.0	Mrs. Roldán, forgive me. No, no. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.273.0	I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.274.0	Mrs. Roldán, you don't have the word. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Pujol, Mr. Pujol, order. Mr. Pujol... [[Pause.]] A point of order is not to make a reply or a speech to some references. I asked him what the point is. If you don't agree with the calls made by this presidency... that's not a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.275.0	The point of order is because you interrupted the deputy who was in his use of the word and, moreover, he called it to order, and I would like to know who the reasons are, what my companion, Mr. Martin, has said, because you made this decision, that I understand that you only listen to the fact that you want to silence the opposition, as always when it comes to presiding over it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.276.0	Obviously, this presidency is the one that has the faculty to moderate the debate, and it can be questionable, what it does, but I will not enter into the debate with any group or with no spokesman on which is the management of this plenary. Therefore, Mr. Pere Aragonès, Vice-President of the Government, has the word now to answer the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.277.0	Well, good afternoon, Mr. President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen..., Mr. White, thought you would ask me about the direction of the government, and therefore we could talk about the concrete proposals, the actions that we have brought to the end of this year and those that are planned for the rest of the legislature, but what I have found, therefore, is a new monologue on the part of your group that reiterates some of the criticisms with distortions, with exaggerations and with things that are really completely out of context. And I'm forced to answer, before I enter into the question of the inquiry as you recorded it, which is about the direction of the government, to some of the aspects that you have commented, right? In the first place, I think that if you want to make an inquiry to Counsellor Bosch, you can register it and do it. And, therefore, I regret that you use what is an act of inquiry to make an inquiry to another councillor, who, obviously, in everything that I and the rest of the government support. I believe that you assign me a responsibility that I would like to have, but that it seems to me that neither I nor any other human person could have, such as the responsibility, for example, to answer for the press statements that made a political party in the Basque Country thirty years ago. You ask me for explanations for the statements not what I did – because... I don't know if I was born, when President Tarradellas made those statements – not what my party did, but he did another political party thirty years ago. The truth is, I don't have the ability to back down in time and power, so stretch the edges to Herri Batasuna's represented ones who said that. I think that you too, therefore, in the same way as you did..., are dealing with context and distorting the meaning, for example, of the..., distorting the meaning and exaggerating some of the expressions of some articles of the President, you also did explain a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights that is not what you said. That sentence doesn't say there was a violation here. That sentence does not say that there was a violation of human rights here, but that the one that says that sentence is that the demand that is made by the deputies about the suspension of the October 9 plenary..., does not constitute in itself, this suspension, a violation of human rights, not that they violate human rights. So, if you want to go to the senses, we're still strict. And I think that you, that you seem to be a strict person, so you should do it. Or as the fact of trying, therefore, to mention images about fifteen years ago, when, obviously, I did not have these responsibilities as the Vice President of the Government and Counsellor of Economy and History. And I think if we go to the newsroom, there won't be a congressman in this room who's saved himself, because we've all explained things in a way that we'll explain a lot differently today. You mentioned that Europe does not accept everything we have done. In any case, what the public does not accept, in general terms, is that it is a pact with the ultrathreat. You have raised the barrier to be able to deal with the ultrathreat. They did it in the Parliament of Andalusia, they also want to do it in the Madrid City Council. And I think that the European public opinion, and we just need to see media like Le Monde today or what they say, for example, the leaders of the European Liberal Party, of which you are so proud to form part..., that you have no sense of peace with the ultra-righteous, that you are the enemy of Europe; that the enemy of Europe is the fundamental nationalism of the state, that you, in soft form, represent in this Parliament. Because you speak a lot of nationalism, but the main nationalism in this Parliament is you, the nationalism of a Spanish state that denies diversity and refuses to resolve political issues in a democratic way. Also, so, you use it, I think to try to increase your rhetorical ability..., take from context statements by President Tarradellas, of which, obviously, in the same way, I can also hold myself responsible. But President Tarradellas..., precisely his arrival and recognition as President of the Generality in 1978 and 1977 are a very clear demonstration of how political he has chosen to resolve conflicts. President Tarradellas was recognized for the government of Suárez as president of the Generality of a republican institution that was in exile. The legitimacy of this institution, of the Government of Catalonia, was recognized before the establishment of the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy. And there it was an exhibition of a certain political skill; for the interest that it was, however, political skill. So, since you want to look at Tarradellas, look at this too. And look how they tried to overcome political problems, go beyond a strict reading of the legal mark. You've done a lot of criticism to Vice President Junqueras. Vice-President Junqueras cannot defend in this Parliament and, unfortunately, he does not seem to be able to defend, for the time being, in the European Parliament, despite having been chosen. Today we have seen how the Supreme Court decided to prevent Vice President Junqueras' exit to go to take possession of his record as an MEP with the only argument that this can hold him, therefore, a status such as that held by the deputies and senators – such as that held by the deputies and senators – of the Spanish State, and therefore this does not suit them for the instruction of the judge they were making. It's a violation of his rights as a citizen, a clear democratic involvement. And what's obvious is that if one thing went well as a deputy and a senator, it would go well as a MEP. Perhaps what is different are the political majorities that allow suspension as a Member and Senator, which may not be – you, as long as you speak of Europe... – in the European Parliament, to suspend 'the same as a Member. You have given me a whole series of responsibilities that no independent state could hold over the economy, and to me, before your statements, I would like to place on the table some of the actions that we have been doing since the government. First of all, this was the year in which the time in Catalonia is in 10.60_per_cent, a few points under the middle of the time in the Spanish State. It's true that you mentioned the relocation of some companies' social home, but the production centers are here; otherwise, we wouldn't be cutting back on the way things are going. You have spoken of teaching and have forgotten to say that this government has reached an agreement for the construction of a number of educational centres, mainly those in barracks; the first agreement for the construction of educational centres in many years. You have spoken of inequalities, and forget that this is the government that is clearly deploying, so, with all the complexity that involves a deployment of these characteristics, the guaranteed income of citizenship. And, therefore, this is a government that does its job and a government that will continue to do it. And this June the Department of the Vice-President and the Economy and History will approve the order of elaboration of the assumptions of the year 2020, because we want this country to continue working, that this country continues to go forward, and that must also be done through assumptions. Therefore, in parallel to what it is, therefore, to see if there is a political possibility of approving assumptions for the year 2019, we will approve the order of elaboration of assumptions for the year 2020. Therefore, we have very clear who is going to follow this government, and the direction that is going to follow in relation to within the country, but also outside the country, is the direction of dialogue and negotiation. A dialog and negotiation that when you produce attack the state government says it's a return. We bet on the dialogue and negotiation, also with the Government of the State, to get the citizenry of this country to vote for, speak the language you speak and think as you think; the citizenry of this country to decide. Because I believe that a democratic solution to the political conflict that we are patenting is a petition that defends a large majority of this country's citizens. I am convinced that you represent a significant part of the citizenry of this country, a part of the citizenry of this country to which no one can restrict it directly, but I do not believe that any criteria that we should be able to share, which can be advanced in the dialogue, can make a contrast of ideas without disregard of the opinions of others. You've done it over and over again. And I think that you had the opportunity, on this first question, to make proposals, which is the direction Ciutadans proposed to the government. And the only course that you are proposing is the course of 155, because they do not like the majority of Parliamentarians in this Parliament, the only course that they are proposing is the course of revenge and repression against the political decisions that this Parliament took in 2017, and it is clear that this course we do not share, because our course is the course of freedom, well-being and prosperity shared among all Catalans. And I hope that I will now have the opportunity to contrast even more with this opposition of ideas with you. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.278.0	Thank you, Vice President. To make the answer, it's the deputy's turn again, Mr. Ignacio Martín. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.279.0	Well, thank you, President. Mr. Vice President, you seem to be lying that we need a lie detector here. I told him what I said to Mr Bosch and I'm telling you the following: I can't come here to gloss over what the European Court of Human Rights said to say something that's not true. I will tell you literally – literally, and, if not..., intend to contrast it and you will see how you will not – exactly what the European Court of Human Rights said about that attempt to make a ple on October 9th of the 17th year and which the Constitutional Court, by lot for the citizen of Catalonia and of all Spain, suspended. He said that it was an imperative social need, that avoiding that Ple was an imperative social need. In this sense, the suspension of the plenary was necessary in a democratic society, in particular for the maintenance of public security, the defence of order and protection – and that is what I had said before – about... One moment, a_second... [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] No, don't worry, I've had my...; in any case, more or less – and now we're looking for it calmly –..., and the protection of the rights and individual freedoms of the rest. Exactly, literally. Look for it, it's not that difficult; make a search, and you'll see that what I'm saying is exactly what the European Court of Human Rights said. In any case, you tell me about your photograph fifteen years ago with the "Spain for us, with the slogan that you are now pretending to deny, when it is the basis of your insolidary and selfish project towards the rest of Spain and Europe, that you are trying to tell us that you will be in solidarity with the rest of Europe when you are unable to have a speech of solidarity with the rest of Spain, which I find quite difficult to sustain from a moral point of view. So look, he's gonna say that any congressman here will have things that 15 years ago... he doesn't like to know. I'll tell you one thing, I would never pose in a photograph that calls for insolidarity with the rest of my fellow citizens, with the rest of my fellow countrymen from the rest of Spain, and I assure you that they will never find such photographs from the head of Ciutadans. [[Greetings.]] On the proposals, yesterday the spokesman of our group, Mrs Roldán, has already announced that we are asking for a plethora on the future of Catalonia in which we will contrast projects of an autonomous community. Indeed, we have presented precisely the laws for the protection of childhood, the laws to end the barracks, the laws to end the poor child, the laws to end the lists of kilometres waiting in Catalonia. And all these are projects, these are social proposals that Ciutan defends the people of this Parliament. It is clear that when you are absolutely attuned to this identity obsession of separating Catalonia from the rest of Spain, we must defend the rights and freedoms of the citizens of Catalonia and give an answer to their obsession. Now, if you want to really talk about substantive things, about substantive policies, we'd be happy to do it. That is why we are asking precisely for this monographic plenary on the future of Catalonia, which seems to be not of interest to you. [[Greetings.]] With the annual premise of TV3 – I remind you of a date that gave you yesterday the wallet of our group – the barracks would be finished throughout Catalonia. Are these your government's priorities? Maintain a mastodonic premise for TV3 and maintain an absolutely impudent amount of barracks in an autonomous community that is an autonomous community with a high income? It seems to me that it is unacceptable that you have these priorities. Mr. Pujol, who had done a lot of skirmishes before, said in his moment that they are not priorities for the government, that they are not priorities. For us they are the priorities; the social issue is the priority for Ciutadans, our group, unlike you. [[Greetings.]] Indeed, lords of the process, lords of the Government of the Generality, a year ago they were wasting time together with the citizens of Catalonia, they were losing energy to Catalan companies, they were generating a situation of lack of harmony and coexistence between Catalans that, logically, would be difficult to fix. We will put all our good will, our intention. Now, you continue to insist on confrontation, on the victimism of which Mr. Tarradellas spoke. Their way of doing politics is only victimism–victimism–, generating problems and then saying that it's all a planetary persecution against you. First was the evil Spanish State, then came the European Union, and there will come different international organizations that always, like they don't give them the reason..., get angry. Of course, they get angry like Mr. Costa, who when I say things that don't please him directly he cuts the word. [[Greetings.]] I sincerely believe that, for the democratic quality of our autonomous community, it is essential that we from this Parliament every day remember the words of someone who has said what Mr Torra said, whom we consider supremacists and xenophobic. And we say that and the main parties of the European Parliament say that: they are supremacist and xenophobic statements. And to say that Spain is also taking advantage of us to tell you, Mr. Aragones. It is, too. This is also supremacist and xenophobic, indeed. [[Greetings.]] Of course, one last..., since he doesn't like..., I've talked to him about our proposals, and we'll start them in the next few weeks. I'm also saying: talking about genetic differences between Catalans and Spaniards as Mr. Junqueras has done is also supremacy and xenophobia. Thank you, honourable Members. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.280.0	Time's up, Congressman. I've got the vice president's word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.281.0	One of the characteristics of populism is the degradation of language [[applause]] , and I think you are an excellent example of parliamentary language degradation [[applause]] - No, no, no, And it's hard, because this degradation of language, of which you are experts, makes it harder to legitimately confront opposing ideas, which is what should be produced in this Parliament – it makes it much harder. So you can't accuse a move like the independentist, which is a plural move – a plural move – a move that doesn't ask the people the language they speak, that doesn't ask the people where they were born, but that we want to build a shared future... I can't classify the citizens of Catalonia according to the language they speak at home, because I would be classifying myself and my family members. I can't, I don't think I will ever, nor will I accept that you tell me that we do... that we discriminate against the citizens of Catalonia depending on whether our parents or advisors were born outside Catalonia, because then I would have to leave for half [[applause]] – I'd have to leave for the half. And when you say that we treat ourselves as citizens according to the people of Catalonia who are Spanish speaking lies, because we should treat ourselves as citizens according to ourselves, my cousins, my friends, my opinions. And that's not what we do, and, like me, a great majority of the independence of this country, the total practice of the independence of this country. So I think it has to be strict and you don't feel it. And you started comparing, and comparing the TV3 assumption – certainly frozen from a stack of years ago–... while the assumption that you refused to process here froze the TV3 assumption, increased the education assumption by 10_per_cent, and you decided that you didn't want to help process it – certainly, that's also what I want to put it on the table. So, you, when you compare this... listen to me, let's compare it to other things, let's compare it to the military spending of the Spanish State, about 10,000_million euros, right? For example. Compare it to the 850_million euros that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs dedicates to the Spanish external representation structure with embassies. And you will say: "It is absurd to compare it. So I don't compare it, either. Because his obsession with the journalists who explain things that you don't like, his obsession with the journalists of the public media in this country, I think he's starting to be a little – sorry – malaltissa – I think he's starting to be a little malaltissa. You say – and always do the same – "We don't come here... because we have many concrete proposals, and we will explain them to you in the next episode. I the episode of the concrete proposals of Ciutadans no altima mai – no altima mai. And now they're coming to tell us... [[applause]] , a ple in which they will explain..., and Mr. Roldán or Mr. Carrizosa will come out and do the same, the same speeches: the articles of Mr. Torra, the poster of not knowing how many, some articles – distorted, obviously – of Vice President Junqueras... Well, I don't know, if you asked me today for an explanation of Herri Batasuna's response thirty years ago – and I'm not going to be a part of it – to a visit by President Tarradellas, I suppose you'll be returning to the actions that Jaume I took in the very Ple. [[Rialles.]] So, let's try to put things where they are. On the government's course, I'll make you a list of government actions that I think should be laid on the table. The year 2018, unlike the Government of the State, we have completed the three objectives of presuppositional stabilization: deficit, debt and expenditure rule – unlike the Government – with assumptions approved for you, which they approved with the People's Party. Vuitanta-set_per_cent compliment of the National Pact for Industry. The Catalan Institute of Finance has financed 1,512 enterprises for EUR 600 million. We have reduced the debt with the joints, that you, as they do not have mayors, do not know, perhaps..., to Catalonia we have reduced the debt with the joints of Catalonia in four years in a 90_per_cent. Four hundred and eleven million euros up to the year 2023 for the conservation and maintenance of reels. We're working on the Energy Transition Bill. Thirty_million additional euros until the year 2022 to renew 382 primary care centers in the field of health of our country. An additional EUR 100 million to improve the conditions of primary care professionals in our country. One-hundred_thirty-eight_million euros, the year passed, with extended assumptions, of housing policies, an 8_per_cent more than the year 2017. Therefore, actions that demonstrate that this government is working, this government is working for shared prosperity, that this is not incompatible with working for a political and democratic solution to the conflict between the Catalan society and the institutions of the Spanish State. And this solution will be voting, and one thing will not make us give up the other. Because we, for the prosperity of the citizens of Catalonia, need to manage with all responsibility and with all freedom. And this freedom is that the citizens of Catalonia decide their future. And this freedom, from my point of view and from the political forces that have won municipal, European and general elections to our country, is the strength and capacity of an independent state. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-06-14-3302.282.0	Thank you, Vice President. The inquiry and the order of the day are completed here. So, let's raise the session.
