ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.1.0	Bon dia deputats, deputades. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the sacrifices of Catalans as a result of government action]] [[302-00173/12]] Let us resume the session with the fifteenth point of the order of the day, which is the Ministry following the question to the Government about the sacrifices of Catalans as a consequence of the government's action. Presented for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, to expose it has the parable of the deputy Mr Santi Rodríguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.2.0	Thank you, President. No Government, Members, Members, in the later plenary we presented an inquiry to the Government which had as subject – if it is not sin to pronounce the word « subject» – an expression of the President of the Generality to the social networks, in which he gave support to an interview in which he stated that, for independence, the need to polarize more, is to say, to divide more the Catalan society; the need to act more intensively in the protests, is to say, it is to the CoR « to press, press, and also to ask the independenceists a higher level of sacrifices, as if the Catalans– not only the independenceists, but all the Catalans– not to make sacrifices. The President of the Generality should be the institution, an institution of all Catalans, and in the inquiry we did a rest of the main sacrifices that precisely Catalan women, as a result of the inaction of government. And it is what we reflect on this young man, this paralysis of government action, that there are not only the same big problems that occurred when this government took possession of last year's june, but that at the length of these dinosaurs, roughly, they have been penetrating and that we summarize explaining how the waiting lists were in Catalan public health; how the barracks were in the schools; how the waiting lists evolve to access the services and services of the Law of Dependence; that we keep university fees higher than all Spanish communities; that we keep the universities with an under-funding that makes their quality perish in the immediate future. And we take advantage of the fact that we talked about universities to reflect a fact that had passed last week. It's not an ailing fact, it's a fact that is repeated in a repeated way, and it's that in university, in certain academic circles, there is someone who wants to restrict freedom of expression. But it is not just this problem, but the problem is that those who want to exercise freedom of expression do not find the master of the direction of the universities or of the same government of the Generality. And so we also take advantage of the motion to condemn attacks on freedom of expression, violent, as happened last week at Autonomous University, because the government has the opportunity to condemn those attacks. We're also talking... and it's one of the elements in which we consider that Catalans are making sacrifices and, for what it seems, they'll still be few, that it's fiscal pressure. Thanks to the invaluable collaboration of Podemos, this is likely to worsen, and force, properly. But, well, it will be one of the sacrifices that we will continue to make the Catalans in this sense. And then, a lack of law enforcement, let's say, social. The poor energy; it has succeeded in passing a law, a law that has not been appealed to the Constitutional Court and that the Government had an obligation to deploy regularly to prevent you from passing what is going on now, that is that no one wants to be responsible for paying to those who have not been able to pay to the companies that sub-manage energies, right? And so here there is a clear responsibility of the government not to face this situation. But there is also a lack of the statutory presentation of the citizenship guarantee so that it can fulfill the objectives with which the law was approved. And all this, we believe, has a common denominator, which is the cry of the creature, which is said to be presuppositions. In Catalonia we wear four years without assumptions, in the last set: 2013, 2016, 2018 and 2019. This has prevented a reordering of resources to be able to deal with all social policies, but... obviously, that's the main problem. And so one of the things we ask again is, to the government, at least, to present the assumptions, because in fiscal year 2019 it did not approve the assumptions or the same government. Basically, this is the lady. There is something more, to which we will then refer with the positioning of the items, fruit also of its relationship with the same items presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to defend the papers presented has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Ms.Alícia Romero. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.4.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Well, Mr. Rodriguez presents us with a motion from the People's Party in which I think in a few points he makes a diagnosis of reality a little sloppy, right? Because it is true that we have a government that does not rule, and there are many examples; you have not put some and we may find many. In fact, in this Chamber there are constantly the non-fulfilments of commitments made in this Parliament, but it is true..., the abandonment of functions in many of the spheres of government, already in schools in Bressol, in inclusive school, in waiting lists, in universities... That is to say, the list, long, long. But this is not the only problem that Catalonia has, that this is, and very big. There is another problem: we have a political conflict in Catalonia, between Catalans, but also between Catalonia and Spain. And this, which we wanted to do with a message that you have not accepted, I think it shows that very often in Catalonia there are those who do not want to see the complex and polyhedral reality that we have. And that's a lot going on in City and it's a lot going on in the People's Party, which they just want to see its truth, and there's a lot of it. And I think it's important that we accept and recognize reality. If not, it's hard for us to pose solutions. We believe that there is a political conflict between Catalonia and Spain, but also between Catalans. These 2_million people who carry many years out on the street peacefully are telling us something, and we can't ignore these criticisms or this demand that is being made, and you, for seven years that have ruled with President Rajoy, therefore, looked at another side. I'm sure that's why we're here, too. So, I think it's important for us all to lay on the table which is the polyhedral reality that this country has. You have not accepted the idea, and therefore we would suggest that you have reconsidered, or we would suggest that you at least look a little further to understand that Catalonia is much more complex and has much more problems, beyond the difficult problem of having a government that does not govern. Look, we've done this thing that's not accepted, we haven't done any other presuppositions. It seems to me that it is very important that in the assumptions of 2020 it is obviously a priority social policies, but also economic ones, and we wanted to make a point in this line, because not only by putting resources to social, educational or health policies will this country improve. If we don't make a big bet – and I think we'll talk about it in other places – for industry, for example; to bet on artificial intelligence; for that technological transformation that's not to come, it's already there; if we're not capable of improving competitiveness, not only because our businesses are more in the world, in a globalized world, but also because we have challenges to face like food, energy or the environment, and that can be done through these disruptive technologies; if we're not capable of putting resources here too, Catalonia will lose positions. And so it's important that when these assumptions are made – and I also look at the commons, which are who, so it looks like they're in these negotiations – we don't just have the attention in social policies, which we can't solve with these 2020 assumptions either, I think we're all clear enough, because we come from so many years of detail that it's hard to reverse all of this into a pressure, but we also need to look at this part of the wealth generation, of the competitiveness of our economy, not only because businesses are more and more able to compete in a global world, but here we have to face backs through this great technological transformation that we already have here. We have made this statement that it was accepted, and we therefore thank Deputy Rodriguez for his disposition. After you always – and in this young man too – they talk about spending, don't they? , to increase the expense; in this it also coincides very much, you, with Citizens. But then, at the time of talking about the income, then, the thing changes; fewer tickets, that is to say, less recap, lower taxes..., and that's one of the things you say: "Here in Catalonia they pay a lot of taxes, and that's not true; there are so many facts that they say it! The fiscal pressure in Catalonia and Spain is between itself and eight points below the European level, that is, we pay less taxes than Europe; the problem is that we have a much higher rate of submerged economy and tax fraud, around two and fifteen points above Europe, and therefore it would probably be worth attacking this, which I already understand that some parties are not happy with, but we should attack more the undersea and economy and not constantly demand that taxes be lowered. And I'd also like to remind you that 2011, just to get to president, Rajoy to Moncloa, what he did is push the IRPF to everyone, and VAT, to everyone, huh? , in a way, therefore, unjust. Therefore, if we want more social spending and more investment in the industrial and technological fields we also need to make a fiscal reform that is fairer and more progressive, or that brings the more you have, the more you gain and the more you pollute the public archives, because among all of us we can overcome this great stage of detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.5.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr David Mejía has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.6.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... This motion describes a sad and worrying reality about what Catalan society is suffering from, but which unfortunately corresponds faithfully to what the separatist parties have caused throughout all these years of process. But the most worrying thing for the citizens of Catalonia is that, far from this government making an amendment and trying to retrace the course, they are striving to say that they will do it again and that they will continue to insist on the path of confrontation and impoverishment of our society. Public resources, contrary to what some think, are not unlimited, but they are limited because they derive from the taxes that we all pay. And in this sense we must remember that Catalans are among the Spanish that we pay the most taxes. With this collection effort that the Government has, we see how we have been spending too many years devoting resources to its chiringuitos and to placing its friends in the process, instead of dedicating them to alleviate the precarious situation, for example, of our health, which has the longest waiting lists of all Spain, or of our education, with the largest number of students studying in barracks of all Spain. And what does the government do in the meantime? It is limited to feeding the confrontation between Catalans, and between Catalans and the rest of Spanish. No, gentlemen of the Government, you have an obligation to ensure the interest of all Catalans and you cannot continue to turn your back on all these intolerable indicators that exist in our autonomous community. But in spite of you – in spite of you – we have the fortune of having large companies, self-employed, entrepreneurs, who make enormous efforts to move their business forward. And all that while you, gentlemen of the government, keep putting the sticks on the wheels. Therefore, what we ask you to do is to return to the reality of the Catalans and to face our problems without hiding behind that victimist discourse to which we are accustomed, which prevents them from doing absolutely nothing useful to the citizens of Catalonia. Unfortunately, his identity obsession has found the complicity of candidate Pedro Sánchez and PSOE, who seems willing to put Spain in the hands of those who want to break it and in the hands of those who want to cut it. For the PSOE we have already moved from having a problem of coexistence in Catalonia to a political conflict. What will be the next thing Mr. Sánchez will accept at this blackmail table? A mediator like Otegi? An Independence Referendum? If you spent your efforts on solving waiting lists, children studying in barracks or dependency lists, also the longest in Spain, I'm sure most Catalans would appreciate it. If you used your effort to end the legislative paralysis that exists in this Parliament and provide solutions to the real and day-to-day problems of the Catalans as a whole, I am sure that the process would end. And maybe that way we could use all these resources to work and to lower, for example, the university fees of our students, once again, of the highest in all of Spain, or invest, obviously, more money in social or health policies. And make sure that I'm talking about politics, I'm not talking about gestures, because we already know perfectly well that the gestures of this government are to arm the separatist commands that burn containers and burn roads. And, unfortunately, the gestures of the Government are not to condemn aggressions that suffer, for example, those students who defend freedom in the different Catalan universities. Sad and unwarranted. This is the reality that some want to hide from us, but that many Catalans are suffering. Some of them are suffering in silence and others are also suffering with fear, but from here I want to tell them, once again, that they are not alone, that we will always be defending Catalonia to be a prosperous land, of opportunity, of hope and of freedom. Today the separatist parties have kidnapped Catalonia, but sooner than later we will change it, and the silent majority will no longer have to shut up. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and to fix his position, he has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mrs Concepción Abellán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.8.0	Thank you, President. I will begin by pointing out that the motion presented to us by the PP, despite its title, makes a set of social proposals to which a group like ours can support, not the first time, but does not fail to surprise us this use of the camouflage uniform put by the PP in the Parliament. What do you want to hide? When you number the consequences of the inaction of the Government Torra-Aragonès in social matters and its inability to meet the real needs of the people, we keep asking ourselves how it is possible for a party that has been ruling the state and devastating public services with its cuts to make a motion like this. You are competing with the extreme right in the rest of Spain, and on the left in Catalonia, and I believe more the first than the second. This would have some grace if it were not for the unfortunate situation of public services. Now, it is tragic, not to say hypocritical, that the kings of austerity intend to teach anyone lessons. [[some applause]] , by cutters who have been in the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia. It is clear that in his diagnosis there are other intentions beyond being sensitive to the problems facing Catalan public health, the long waiting lists and the lack of health professionals, the high university fees, the barracks in schools, the difficulties in access to housing, energy poverty or guaranteed income. On paper we can agree on the measures they propose, and even on the main thesis they defend; we suffer a government installed in the inaction, in the non-government, right, but there appears its contradiction, its fiscal policy, which goes out to criminalize taxes and attack the redistribution of wealth. Well, look, no. It is not consistent to defend public services and then to say that a fiscally attractive Catalonia must be made. Attractive to whom? For those who win the most? For banks, multinationals, or vulture funds? If the PP wants what is being done in Andalusia or in the Community of Madrid to be done in Catalonia, they will find us at the front. What is your alternative? Leaving the Generalitat in ruins and dismantling public services? To tell people ‘we are going to make tax cuts, with their famous massive drop in Andalusian taxes, and then leave health care in the ICU due to the lack of doctors, and long waiting lists, as they are doing in Andalusia? Collapse the system of dependency and care services for the elderly? This is happening in Andalusia, Madrid and Catalonia. You do not do it better where you govern, on the contrary, in a short time you have managed to bring to collapse the health or dependence in Andalusia to follow the wake of privatizations to the private sector that characterizes them, as you already did in Madrid. There you do have better results, you, in growing private health and mercantilizing our rights. Be honest, it is not possible to defend public services without a fair and progressive tax system that makes public health and education, social services or guaranteed income sustainable. To contribute more who has more or more profit or who pollutes is a question of social justice, is to defend the general interest, the common interest, which is the heritage of all, above the interests of a few. To put forward the interests of some elites to whom you come to give privileges in order to continue to increase inequality and to make a society poorer for the majority, that is to leave people at the stake and condemn our future, that is what you have done with this country. They have nothing to envy the Generalitat. The failed neoliberal dream we have already suffered; we began to awaken from Rajoy's nightmare, to whom, I remind you, we cast it with a motion of censure. And yes, we also want to wake up from this long night of austerity, of cuts, of degradation of the public services of Catalonia, and we will get out of it, leaving behind the economic recipes of the right, no doubt. Retrieve the social agenda and advance social rights, here we will agree, even if it is political camouflage. We will not support them in their fiscal model, nor will we support their polarization strategy with the territorial conflict. And, look, denying that there is a conflict with the State is not useful to any solution; and that the PP, as an active part in the creation of the conflict, denies it gives the measure of the consideration in which you have the intelligence of Catalan society. Without PP everything is better; they would do more service if they stopped paying for hypocrisy. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.9.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is now the return of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.10.0	Thank you, President. From the escó. Well, first of all, and speaking of the sacrifices of Catalans and Catalans, we want to show our total solidarity with the new people held yesterday in the mobilizations with the motivation of the classic; to take advantage of it again to denounce the police abuses, and, as it cannot be in any other way..., the resignation of the dome of Interior. But, continuing with anti-repressive solidarity, we want to show our full solidarity with President Tora and Vice-President Junqueras, who probably today or in the next few hours will know feelings of the greatest transcendence for what he does to his situation, whether from Barcelona or from Luxembourg. And also our solidarity with the four entrepreneurs from September 23rd to Soto del Real, who will probably know what's new about their business situation today. And, indeed, this young man wants to talk about the sacrifices of Catalans and Catalans; we will explain our vision of what these sacrifices are. Effectively, since 2017, 1,402 persons identified, 501 persons detained, 490 persons investigated, 1,429 persons injured for police assaults, 71 registers in premises of entities and associations and 37 persons who have passed or Roman still in prison. It is worth saying that in most of these cases, the result of actions of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. These are sacrifices from Catalans and Catalans that are worth putting on the table. But that didn't happen here, because, besides, we have to support a government of the Generality and some parties that give it support that all this, this sacrifice, use it to reorganize its power in the autonomous institutions or negotiate as the currency of change the stability of the Spanish institutions. Far more than the objective of this sacrifice, which is nothing other than the democratic break with the Spanish State, the self-determination and the absolutation of the fullness of social, civil and political rights for everyone. And it does not end here the sacrifice, because, moreover, we have to endure a state or a government of the Generality that continues without guaranteeing basic rights for everyone, such as the right to housing, which continues, if I may say so, "by asking for public services, which continues to lead the majority of the working class to a situation of labor and social precariousness, and which continues without guaranteeing the exercise of social, civil and political rights for everyone. This – this – is the sacrifices, from our point of view, that we have to claim and the objectives in which we have to remain faithful. For all this, we will vote mostly against the points of this motion. We could give support to some of his subordinates, but mostly we would vote that we do not because we do not share either the diagnosis or some of his proposals.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.11.0	Thank you. Next, it is the turn, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of the deputy Lluïsa Llop. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.12.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor, deputies, deputies. We begin this session of saying with this motion about the supposed sacrifices made by Catalans as a result of government action. A young lady who would allow me to say that it is a barrage of a whole series of issues that often disapprove of what the president says to ask that is to condemn the aldaruls and violence, to talk about waiting lists, barracks, trilingual school, etc. A young man who said above, and I do commit, "the main problem that the Catalans suffer is not a political conflict between Catalonia and the rest of Spain, but the abandonment of the Government of the Generality's functions towards the citizenry. Sounds amazing to us. 80 percent of Catalans and Catalans want a reference to decide their future, and this has been explained so many times. A reference that is systematically denied for Spanish governments' successes, and it turns out that the conflict between Catalonia and Spain is not a problem, political. Millions of people have been demonstrating for years to claim the Catalan Republic, to claim a referendum, and you say that the political conflict between Catalonia and Spain is not a major problem. The Spanish police stunned the more than 2 million people who went to vote in a self-determination referendum, and you say that the political conflict between Spain and Catalonia is not a political problem. Sounds amazing to us. Do they really believe that? And he continues his motion denouncing oblivious social problems suffered by Catalan society, among which he highlights, according to you, low public investment in social policy, reduction of investments in health policies, university taxes, etc. Sanitat, remember that we've destroyed their health care system, haven't we? They know the reality, don't they? The Catalan government and parliamentary action work despite having a state against it, despite the economic focus, despite the intervention of its institutions. The authentic peril and sacrifices of Catalans and Catalans come from this. The fiscal commitment of Catalans should be sufficient and sufficient to guarantee a welfare state that works for all citizens. It should be enough, but you know that it is not: according to the method of calculation, we suffer a fiscal deficit that is up or up to 10,000_million euros or exceeds 16,000_million euros. And is it that Spain steals from us? No, let's not say that, but let's say that Spanish governments prefer to invest in arms, they prefer to invest in AVEs that go to places without passersby or millionaire payments for the Castor before they let the Government of Catalonia invest in socio-economic policies that is generating Catalonia. And we're no longer talking about the investment deficit in the state of Catalonia, failing when it's supposed and insultingly failing when it's executed. And we're not talking about the arbitrary distribution of the gap between the state and the rest of public administration. In the House they come to mention the sacrifices of Catalans in the waiting lists of dependency policies. Mirin, the Spanish Government came to provide, there for the year 2007, when a Spanish law so established, more than 300_million euros to Catalonia for the Law of Dependency; this today is almost half, and despite the fact that they are obliged to provide half of their premise, it turns out that at these times the Generality has contributed almost 84_percent over and the Spanish Government does not go above to contribute 16_percent of the Law of Dependency, when they should be providing half of their assumption. And despite everything, the government and the Catalan parliamentary action – we insist – will work, while having a state against, while having an economic offensive and despite the intervention of its institutions. That's why, in the areas that she exposes her young lady, in many of them – and she won't give me time because it's a lot of scope to get into all of them – since the government is working there. They are talking about reducing waiting lists and strengthening the skills of professionals, so in recent years 11,707 professional places have been called precisely to stabilize these plants, and they have worked on conditions pacts for the civil servants and better health care pacts. They're talking about reducing barracks, and they're working on it. In fact, the department has a prefabricated module planning at seven years' notice, knowing, obviously, that removing them all is impossible because they have to respond to specific situations. They talk about lowering university taxes, when vice president Aragonès has already announced that in the assumptions of 2020 it will propose a drop of 30_per_cent of these taxes. They speak of poor economics: yesterday it was announced the agreement between the local administrations, the third sector and the Department of Work of Councillor Chakir El Homrani. Mr. Deputy, the government, despite its slogans, does govern, and it would do much better to dispose of the resources generated by Catalans and Catalans. That is why, because we know that we can do much better, we are convinced that the solution is the Catalan Republic that guarantees civil, political rights...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.13.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.14.0	...and, above all, social. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.15.0	Thank you. Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the words of Mr. Francesc de Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.16.0	Thank you, President. Counselress, deputies, deputies..., they have left a young lady a little "what a bad thing, what a disaster, and they have barricaded points that surely could be voted. But if Montesquieu explained himself to us in the experience of the laws, then we could also go to the experience of the motions, and this young man is an example of not politics, of not building and of not dialing. It seems that they had written it a little while ago and that they didn't even go through it so far as to update it, because you put the center of this young man or the reality has already forgotten them or we are already working. In fact, when you talk about the Catalan economy in dramatic terms, tell you that not us, that not the Government, that not Juntes per Catalunya, but the conjuncture group of the Catalonian Economics College, this same week, has presented a study with data that denies all the catastrophic reports about the Catalan economy. They won't find us in this fake report. If they want to talk about dice, and they know they lose there. And for what he does to the assumptions, they are also late, because the government of President Torra already works in which will be the most social assumptions presented in this Parliament, in which 75_percent of the assumption, three_of_each_four euros, will be devoted to teaching, greeting, universities, housing, work, social matters and public transport. And speaking of President Torra, you insist that defending his government program and defending his political perspective, endorsed by a majority in this Parliament, is to divide Catalan society, and this – we will repeat it as often as you need – is a false report. Do you know what he's doing, impoverishes and haunts Catalan society? That the president of this Parliament has spent more than two years sleeping in prison every night and spends every day in prison [[applause]] to do his work magnificently. May men and women of peace, with President Puigdemont in the foreground, their companions and companions of this hemisphere continue to be imprisoned or exile precisely to defend political ideas, which are not theirs, which know perfectly well that they are not theirs, but that they are not only criminals, but are exquitably democratic, such as the exercise of the right of self-determination. And that is why, when you in your mind of "what an evil it is, what a disaster there are points that may be consumable, that may be serious voteable, we must look at your eyes and say no; we must make it impossible for a hierarchy of rights to be made, we must make it impossible for the defence of some rights to be at the same time the violation of others. It would be much easier to see that repression does not exist, that there is no repression, that there are no political prisoners, that there are no exiles, but we cannot. [[Widow's remorse.]] This same week, Ómnium presented his campaign« Prou repressión, the deputy Riera in reference without reference. Do you know who the ciphers are? More than 1,000 people injured between 1 and 4 October 2017, 400 people who have required healthcare assistance to protest when the sentence was made public, 292 people detained since September 2017, 12 people who today still suffer from preventive detention, 2 people locked up at the CIE to protest, and we hope that there will be no deportations, 144 websites blocked– not to Xina or Turkey, here in Catalonia –, 118 dozen investigated, 40 investigated for their involvement in the U of October, and the magic xifra, 712 mayors and mayors investigated, three_de_cada_four from this country. And after each of these individuals with names and surnames, right-holders who see that these rights can be trampled, undermined, tried and finally condemned. I would like to begin by saying that the government governs and governs well and that Together for Catalonia we are here to work to make possible a future better for the conjunction of Catalan society. But we are here above all to remind those who want to make us see that we live in normality and in full democracy that this is false, that the Spanish democratic system is Spanish, but it is not democratic, and to unmask those who want to cover up the list of reprisals talking about the waiting lists. And from a perspective of rights we cannot sort, we do not want to sort; we want a country without waiting lists and without reprisal lists. And this is the enormous complexity that it is up to him to manage the government of President Torra. And therefore, you will not find us simplifying the complexity, for which, moreover, you are directly responsible. That is why I return to where I started: you will not be in the anti-repressive struggle, you will not be travel companions in the search for political solutions to the conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State. It makes us very sad, but okay, we'll take it. But, then, if you really care about the endowment of sanitation, education, justice, culture, the future of men and women in this country, you remain coherent. They want social spending assumptions and they tend to, the most social assumptions that have ever come to this Parliament; keep consistent, get out of your comfort zone and vote in favour, when they arrive, of the assumptions that we will present to you. This will be a useful gesture to facilitate and guarantee rights to the men and women of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.17.0	Finally, to pronounce on the papers, Mr Rodriguez has a new turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.18.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... Mr Dalmases, an appreciation: I seem to have been wrong about the young man, you must not have read the motion that we have presented; you have spoken to us about other things that are not of which the young man speaks. Speaking of reprisals, you're right, let's hope the reprisals to Catalonia are over. Retaliations are the 700,000 Catalans who are in endless lists of hope for salvation; retaliations are the more than 20,000 students who each day have to study in barracks; retaliations are the 75,000 dependents who expect services or services from their government and not the rebels. These are the real reprisals. I can't answer everyone, but I do have to dedicate a sentence to Mrs. Abellan. You're the ones who, when they're at the opposition, promote and let people see that they're going to have pool shrapnel, like their leader, but when they're running, what they're offering is content to live, like Barcelona. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Yeah, that's practice! This is the practice that you're doing. And I dedicate myself to Mrs Romero because part of the movement was dedicated precisely to the PSC and the political conflict. You know perfectly well that if this young man, in the accounts of debating it in the month of December, were to debate it before November 10, you would give him support. Because you did not speak of political conflict before November 10; you speak of political conflict when you take up the theses of Esquerra Republicana, who you need to form government! That's it! [[Greetings and remorse.]] They don't make us pack with moth wheels! It's his need. But you know perfectly well that this is not the reality. And, therefore, you will understand perfectly that we do not accept the thought with which they claim that we also assume the thesis of Esquerra Republicana. We will not do it, nor do we need to form governments with Republican Left votes, as you do. [[The remorse of the voice persists. Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I'm sorry for the threat to fiscal policy; I'm sorry too...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.19.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.20.0	... because the text that we have presented, fiscally attractive..., I think each one can hear what he wants; therefore, it is a perfectly inclusive concept. Even for those who think that taxes should be increased, for they will be tax-attractive. And for that matter...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.21.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.22.0	...I think it's perfectly voteable. And we've accepted the Ciutadans theme in relation to trilingualism, which is another of the sacrifices made by Catalans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.23.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.24.0	Yeah, good morning. To ask for a separate vote: for one band, 1.c and 4. and for the other, 3.f. Thank you. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.25.0	Say'm, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.26.0	To ask for a separate vote on '1.b, c and d, 3.f and 4, which could be voted together, but I understand that some are those who have already asked for Mrs Granados... 1.b, c and d, 3.f and 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.27.0	All right. Any more separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] We have been informed by the Bureau of the replacement of a Member who has had a health problem. Therefore, they see that manually we add a vote, which is the delegation vote of Mrs Imma Gallardo. Let us proceed to the vote, first of all, on points 1.b and d. The vote begins. These points have been rejected by 55 votes in favour, 70 against and no abstentions. Let's just move on to vote on point 1.c. The vote begins. The 1.c_point was rejected by 38 votes to 71, with 16 abstentions. We're voting now on point 3.f–3.f. The vote begins. Point 3.f was rejected by 38 votes in favour, 87 against and no abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has been rejected by 38 votes to 71, with 16 abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 62 votes in favour, 63 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the banalization of violence to the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation]] [[302-00176/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the Movement following the Government's inquiry into the banalization of violence to the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word of the deputy Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.28.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We have this motion from the question I made last week to Mrs Budo, and the first one I want to do is to start this intervention by denouncing what for me is an exercise of alarming lack of neutrality and partiality and, ultimately, of asymmetry of tolerance with which the President of this Parliament exercises his presidency. In a parliament in which separatist MPs systematically hold carcellers, inhumans and franchise heroes, I believe that it is not reasonable that yesterday in this chamber I served some qualifications, some adjectives that my opinion were not in absolute pejorative, but that in any case Mr Torrent, once again, demonstrated his lack of neutrality, his lack of impartiality and equanimity in the course of his performance as president of this chamber. Frankly, I think that..., something that gave me yesterday a Member of this House, a person whom I appreciate and whom I have affection and intellectual respect, tells me – not of my group, in this case – that one should win it. And I believe that someone like Mr. Torra, who said that my country, that Spain is a country that is an exporter of misery, has not won the honorability of any way. [[Greetings.]] This beginning goes down because precisely I believe that what we have in Catalonia today is the reality that we have some public media that they do reflect this lack of impartiality, this asymmetry of tolerance between what they say and what they say, this lack of equanimity in the public media in Catalonia. There is an obvious correlation between what the government does, between what the government says, and between what the public communication media do. These weeks – we've already repeated it these days – we've seen things on TV3 that I think are absolutely unacceptable in some public media, I think they don't have a bet on any other public media in our democratic environment or in any other autonomous community, as I said yesterday, or in any other country in our democratic environment. The fact that Mr Puigcercós – and I repeat it, because I think it is very important – an expression of the Republican Left, said in a program of maximum audience on TV3 that "Spain endures Catalonia a hundred dead because this people do not have complexes seems to me to be an exercise of supremacism, hispanophobia and agitation of hatred in Spain that is inadmissible in some public media. [[Greetings.]] And yes, I would like to appeal to the individual responsibility of the director of TV3, the director of Catalonia Radio, by the advice of the Presidency, on which they also depend these communication media, and also to the moderators of these programs: you really, like yourself in our society, like you in many cities in the rest of Spain who see with concern, with a great sadness the fact that someone like Mr Puigcercos says that "Spain endures a hundred deaths because these people do not have complex, you really believe that the moderator of that program does not have to say: "Dear Mr Puigcercos, do you agree with what you are saying? Is there any evidence that the rest of the Spaniards, that Spain is a country that is almost completely impractical people, that has no sense of value, that has no sense of humanity, that has no sense of respect for others? Are you aware of the breakdown that you're having? Or when Mr Cabré, former member of Convergence's governments, said that he is not the same as saying "democracy in Spanish" that "democracy in Catalan, because here there is a cultural difference between one another, it does not seem to you that the moderator of the program must say: "So far we can arrive. Is it absolutely unacceptable, intolerable, this hispanophobia, this hatred pedagogy of Spain, this way of undermining the Catalan constitutionalists and the rest of the Spaniards? Indeed, the appeals to you, the members of the separatist parties, if they do not feel ashamed of a public television that is making hate between Catalans and between Catalans and the rest of the Spaniards. I believe that in the present situation it is essential that everyone in this chamber realize that we need public media that do not lie to us, that they do not insult the Catalan constitutionalists and that, in the end, they do not practice, as they are so far, the pedagogy of hatred in Spain. I think it's very dangerous what's going on on TV3 with this trend, and that's why I said yesterday – and I say it and I say it again – that someone like Mr. Torra, who said that Spanish speakers are good people in human form, who said that Spain is a country that is essentially an exporter of misery, seems to me to be a transsumptuous believer that TV3 then does with its programming. Thank you, honourable Members. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.29.0	To defend the papers presented has the word, first of all, Mr David Pérez, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.30.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of certain points of the motion – it is repetitive in some elements of which we have already done the Socialist Group a_me ago. We shall vote in favour of the treatment of persons who have belonged to terrorist organizations. We will also vote in favour of respect for the audiovisual rules of all persons working together on public radio and television, journalistic ethics and the CCMA's book of style. We will also vote in favour of the condemnation of the dehumanization of politicians and voters of non-separatist ideologies. We will also vote in favour of the themes of the premise, that there is a balanced premise; I must recognize Mr Nacho Martín Blanco that this is one of the themes that we have most battled with the Corporate Control Commission. And we will also vote in favour of everything about the themes of Squad Mossos. For the rest of the points, in some we will vote against it, in others we will abstain. You must bear in mind that you did not accept our papers, did not accept all our papers, and therefore this will cause some of the abstentions. Miri, from his question of the other day must be left in evidence that there are many things that need to be improved in the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjans Corporation. Indeed, when 80_percent of the audience is declared in favour of independence and 15_percent does not, surely the corporation has to improve in pluralism. When the government injects economic contributions every two by three, the independence of public media must be improved. When the government, or the Catalan corporation in this case, refuses to give information that is claimed by the deputies of this Parliament, man, it must be improved as a minimum in transparency and credibility. If third parties do not have plurality and diversity of vision and balance, then, among other things, their credibility must also be improved. Because when we talk about diversity, plurality and balance what we want, basically, is that everyone can be represented and can see their ideas represented in public media. There is an example – I don't know if you were commenting on it a while ago – that we talk about when there are Tertulians who have a space close to them to express themselves and no one can beat them, so this is something that needs to be improved. We set the example of what happened to Mrs. Pilar Rahola the other day; there is an ex-CUP deputy who said that she doesn't understand how this lady can do, let's just say, her intervention without being able to get anyone to beat her live; that's not plurality. Effectively – effectively – there has been no plurality in public media, in the Catalan corporation. There is also, when a person is complaining that he pays a lot of taxes and money from the Catalan corporation and this Catalan corporation phonentally is the mother of public taxes..., so, look, under my point of view, white and bottled. If we were to reduce the economic situation of the Catalan corporation, I would be very clear on where to start. Actually, there are elements that don't just work; we need to be critical, and we need to empower those elements that are working right now, that are a lot, huh? We don't always give them, but actually there are a lot of elements that work within the Catalan corporation, that they don't, and we recognize it. But always from a correct tone, dialogue and debate. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.31.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, Mr Dani Serrano has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.32.0	Thank you, Vice President. From the seat. Once again, the Catalan public media are being debated, not precisely to discuss positive aspects. In this sense, it rains on wet. And I have come to the conclusion that it is clear that with the current Government there is nothing to do; there is a political will to turn, for quite some years now, the Catalan public media into an instrument of propaganda and separatist agitation. And, therefore, in that sense, I believe that it has reached its highest level of moral lowness with the operation of whitening the violence of some separatist groups. And, therefore, our amendment, which we thank the Ciutadans Group for having admitted to us, because it is a full operation; it is not an attempt, it is an operation that I can even say is achieving its objectives among part of the population. That is why we also largely share the motion put forward by Ciutadans, because we frame it within the will to denounce, which is the only thing left for the opposition groups. Finally, I would also like to say that we have tabled another amendment, and that we are also grateful for its incorporation, in the sense of recalling the role that ACC must play as an organ that guarantees political and social plurality in the Catalan public media. And this role, with some honorable exception, is not currently being fulfilled by the CAC, becoming in most cases the perfect alibi of separatism in the Catalan public media. Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, in order to maintain her position, she has the word, for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.34.0	Thank you. MPs, MPs, another time a déjà-vu, another time Ciutadans entering a loop with another motion of astrocanada on the pluralism, or not, of TV3 and Catalunya Radio. They already made one a year ago, one in March, one in April, and now another. I, again, as they enter the deja-vu, return them to say exactly the same: vagina to the background of the question. I never do – I never do. What makes the corporate media dependent on the government is that since 2009 there has been no program. This makes them dependent on the negotiation of resources with the government a year later, an economic dependency that has become a political dependency. And what also depends on corporate media is to follow the effects of a direction, a board of government, and a few directions of media that respond more to the game that has put them there than to the task that they are developing. And why the change, what's the matter? Astrocanada motions in Parliament? Continue using public communication media as the party trigger weapon? So no. What's more, we're applying the law passed for this Parliament on October to renew the corporate governance bodies once and for all with reinforced majorities and to make it independent of party interests, choosing profiles that guarantee professionalism criteria that understand that it's a means of public communication and what is the public service that is to be offered to the citizenry. And the other thing is to sign as soon as possible a program contract that guarantees the real economic autonomy of public media respects the government. And I repeat again: Catalans and Catalans don't deserve to continue playing partyly, each other, with public media like this. And I repeat to them again: this is what a Member and a parliamentary group tell you that it is not that it is not a complaint and I did not denounce the things that do bad TV3 or Catalonia Radio. Yesterday we recorded a battery of questions to the government of the corporation about the controversial indignity that has been generated respect for plurality, and respect our public media, and respect the role that they must be making, from the point of view that they are paying €55,000 to a collaborator for opinion from public television on sensitive topical issues that affect the entire community and that do so without rigour, without the necessary contrast and in a situation where their opinions are clearly eroded and on their part, because it is probably from the Catalan minorities that they will have to pay one_dess of euros more per month because they charge more than €norant_ thousand per month, good part of these moneys coming from the public era of our media. But against this is not work, nor is it a battle to claim what you possess in this young man, but to claim that the strong mandate of the audiovisual media is complete, that the freestyle of the corporation is complete, claiming that the public media complements what they must be like public service, with which this Parliament has mandated them to serve public service, that it is neither the service of the deputies of Ciutadans nor the one that the deputy thinks; the public service is the service of the common interest of the citizenry. That is why we will vote in favour of a point of his motion, point 1.e, which, with the thought of the Socialist Group, is going to say exactly what I have just defended, that what must be fulfilled is the March mandate, what must be completed is the style book, and that the collaborators of the public media must also complete it. But we'll vote them against the rest of Ciutadans's astounding motion. There are plenty of easy incendiary speeches, from one to another; enough to use professionals and citizens to feed him. And we demand them, once again, a little responsibility to resolve what is close to us as members and deputies of this chamber, from which public communication means depend: to defend the interest of citizens and the right to information, which is of citizens, and which public means guarantee this right with the plurality necessary. A little more politics and a little less electoralism.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.35.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To fix its position, it has now the word, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the lady Natilia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.36.0	Good morning, all of you. Well, let's just get back to it; I think I always start this way with Ciutadan's motions about public media. On this occasion, on this occasion, there are two things that have become the flotation line of Ciutadans' political action: from a gang, a direct attack on public media and their own and their professional, and the criminalization of dissent. This serious young man like the summary of this legislature of Ciutadans; he did this: he attacked the public media and showed that his concept of democracy is very small, because in his concept of democracy there is no, there is no space for dissent, there is no space for respect for fundamental rights, such as the right to demonstration, such as the right to freedom of expression, the right to assembly. And in this sense, it would be this summary. And with what object do they do, what object do they pursue? So this, discrediting public media, discrediting their professionals, proposing measures that are at the limit of censorship and direct control over ideas, which is basically what they pursue in society, right? It's an example of what they're looking for in Catalan society. And the other objective they're pursuing is this crime of dissent and paying the land for repression; 2,500 people have been retaliated for their ideas since September 2017, 2,500 people. So obviously, public media must see these people and a lot of other people who should see, who every day appear in denunciations, who are at the edge of the street, and who, from their perspective of small democracy, do not want them. But do you know what's going on? Dissidents exist, we'll be in public media, and if they don't allow us, we'll be on the street and we'll find all the tools to focus and make us feel our way. We are on the side of those who are fighting and we believe that, from public spaces, from this Parliament, what it is not to protect a few squadron moves that have been pursued by demonstrators in a very criminal way today. I was in the Courts, and I saw squadron movements hindering their cars, their vans, no sense and no justification. This Parliament does not have to protect Squad moss. This Parliament is to signify Brimo and its responsibilities, as well as its violation of fundamental rights. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Therefore, we want more activists from Arran to TV3 and less Raholes, which, certainly – and I finish, president – is not a question of rigour, it is a question of class. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.37.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Ruben Wagensberg has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.38.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, yes, as Congresswoman Natalia said, let's go back to it. Before, two previes. First, solidarity for us stopped yesterday evening. I, second, have just been confirmed for the High Court of European Justice the immunity as the deputy of Oriol Junqueras [[applause]] the person who was two years old and who was the striker. Justice up, justice's coming. From today Oriol Junqueras must be a free person. And, therefore, we demand the nullity of the judgment of the court. [[Strong applause and "Freedom!]] And it's funny – and it's funny – that this news now, with a young man in whom you talk about manipulation. Two years of beating a person who has just been recognizable [[applause]] Immune, thanks to the vote, to the vote of the citizens. And, therefore, we also demand that President Puigdemont, that European Member Toni Comín also be able to occupy, from now on, his space in the European Parliament. [[Greetings.]] And, from here, the truth, a little bit of mandra enter your constant loop. We'll do it fast, we'll do two points. You go back to criminalizing Televisión de Catalunya; especially you focus, also, on how to treat the information, therefore, the information services of a house that are repeatedly rewarded, not only the telenews, also the Sense fiction, also the 30 minutes; therefore, some information services repeatedly rewarded in autonomous, national, international, for the quality of their information, for dealings, fears that it treats the whole world, of first order, like the protests that are giving to the whole world, and also to Catalonia, to give you all the parts. You say TV3 banishes violence. Violence may banalize you in other ways. You banalize the violence, the violence you carry with you unjustly imprisoned people during these two years, people, relatives, that you must go to see them in prison. You banalize the violència of various ways. They know perfectly well that by putting the focus, by inflating the images that are seen by television, some images of aldorulls, you are proposed as victims. You came out here, Mr. Nacho Martín Blanco, proposing as the victim. But here the only victims, here the only people retaliated, here the only people who are stuck in prison, here the only people who finish stomaching in the hospital are people of a political color sun – of a political color sun. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, I tend to stand up as victims, because there is only the people of this bench in prison, only the people of this bench end up in hospital, and you only restrict their freedom of expression to the people of this bench. So justice came, justice came and justice came and justice came. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.39.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Josep Riera has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.40.0	Good morning. More than congratulating the Nadal to everyone, which is already done yesterday, I would rather remember the political prisoners and political exiles who are about to pass the second or third Nadal without being with their families. A lot of esteem for everyone. And fortunately, as compañero Ruben has said now, we are beginning to get a lot of good news from European justice and, perhaps, injustice is beginning to end. I have a little to say that it's useful before a young man like this, that it's nothing more than a generalization of banality. Nothing you say can be useful, because you, Mr. Martín, do not listen to the data or the arguments used, nor do you come here to debate, but to make clips for your own diffusion and self-consumption. The only useful thing we can do from here to a few minutes is drop this young man. Beyond futility, though, I do have things to say. And I'll start with what you said in your question to the councillor last week. He devoted more than half the time not to talking about TV3, but to telling him that the language that is being persecuted in Catalonia is the castle. Miri, I will not answer it, that you do it as neutral as now the Council of Europe, and what I will quote, moreover, is not of any Catalan medium, but of El País, little suspected of being a diary for independenceists, I quote textually, first the title: "The Council of Europe applauds the Catalan language model. And the text: "Spain fails to fulfil its European commitments to preserve the continent's rich linguistics. This is what the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe has been saying, which has just issued a report with recommendations, in which the Spanish Government is in favour of strengthening the use of co-official languages. The five official diagnostics on the degree of compliment to Spain of the European Charter of Minority Languages, a 1992 tract, but to which the Spanish State acceded in 2001, is the hardest. That's what El País says, too, huh? – that the process of disgaying is fast, that there are only two courts in the Balearic Islands that use the català, that it has been difficult to escape to the Basque Country and is pleased that the Valencia Country has recovered public television, as the only positive data. I, on Catalonia, quote The Country textually : « The document highlights the model of linguistic immersion in the school, without neglecting the importance of multilingual education. The Council of Europe, however, admits in its report that there are still tasks in other areas. I could go on, but I'll leave it here. Strictly about the young man, I've already told him, I'm afraid. You've said it all before, and I have a firm belief in language that defines thought. I think TV3 and Catalunya Radio have defects and better things, but they basically inform, entertain, divulge, promote català and aranès, etc. The main questions of the mission that is entrusted by law to public media. You, in change, see monsters, if you know what you're saying. All are the terms of his speech: « TV3 and Catalonia Radio a neteja d'immatge de terres y sedicosos; « TV3 denigrates public servers; « TV3 interposes third people to divulge the government's speech; « TV3 promotes totalitarian and violent methods; « TV3 gives privileges to certain collaborators; « TV3 has a Hispanic and unconstitutional rhetoric; « TV3 dehumanizes politicians and voters of non-separatist ideologies; « TV3 excludes the use of the castle and is supremacist; « TV3 and Catalonia Radio are instruments of agitation and separatist propaganda; « TV3 banalitizes the violence, which is the title of its last hit, which came out of its fictional terminology of the discourse. What a cataleg of intolerance. Miri, I won't tell you any more if you see Matrix, not on another planet, not so alone in another galaxy. You are quantumly lost in a parallel universe, a universe in which the law of gravity is transformed into the gravity of the law against your political rivals; a universe in which institutional respect is converted into the institutionalization of disrespect; a universe in which, above all, of the last election results, you are very lonely and very lost. If you were a TV series, a TV 3 series, they'd be lost in space. They continue like this, they continue to star in their own cosmic shipwreck. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.41.0	To pronounce on the papers, has the word, again, the deputy Mr Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.42.0	Thank you, President. Look, we have just witnessed a new example, a new episode of the institutionalization of the lie that you have carried out in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] It is simply disappointing that you are manipulating what the Court of Justice of the European Union says and are trying to... [[Widow's remorse. Some MPs peck their hands at the bait.]] I hope...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.43.0	Quiet! Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.44.0	I hope my time is respected. Here's one thing that's obvious, Mr. Junqueras is a criminal convicted of sedition and embezzlement of funds. [[Greetings and remorse.]] It has been judged with all guarantees in one of the most guaranteed and developed states of law in Europe. [[Greetings and strong remorse.]] Good. Ladies and gentlemen, I see Mr Torra applauding me and welcoming him, because, perhaps, I welcome the rule of law, Mr Torra, I give it to him. [[Greetings and remorse.]] The Court of Justice of the European Union is telling us that we have immunity since we are elected; naturally, we do not have immunity from what we have previously committed to be elected. When we are already immersed in a judicial process, such as Mr Junqueras, tried with all the guarantees, they will not pretend that parliamentary immunity becomes... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.45.0	Quiet! Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.46.0	Home! [[The timer laughs.]] But, please, since...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.47.0	Quiet! Silence the... silence, the deputies who are at the door waiting!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.48.0	The truth is, what do you do to me as an agitator from the escho, perfect; but already from here, it seems to me the summum, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.49.0	Yes, silence, the deputies who are at the door! Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.50.0	I'm gonna need a little more time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.51.0	I've stopped her time. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.52.0	I insist, the immunity, that no impunity, ladies and gentlemen of the separatist bench... the immunity is from the moment we're elected, not from before. Therefore, they do not intend to turn immunity into impunity, which is what you claim! It's what you're pretending to be, quite simply. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] If I know what they're trying to do! [[Greetings.]] Actually, ladies and gentlemen of the separatist bench, stop institutionalized the lie and confuse people. What you have done today is what you usually do, win a gallinaceous flight victory, which will serve absolutely nothing. [[Strong remorse of voice and applause]] - No, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.53.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.54.0	Here, they celebrate something that is nothing. I'm sorry, gentlemen, it's nothing. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Application... It's just that, really, really, it's ridiculous that you're going to try to make your parish pass this like a slap in the face of the Spanish rule of law. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] And go on – and go on. Come on, get up. It's unbelievable. [[Greetings.]] Really, really... [[Strong remorse of the eyes. Critics and applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.55.0	MPs, MPs, silence! [[Crits of "Freedom!]] Please! Please! One moment, Mrs. Garcia. There's a little more time for the congressman. There's a little more time for the congressman, then tell me why he's asking me for the word. Congressman, go on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.56.0	Look, these shouts of "freedom you utter today for your ex-Companion Junqueras," were uttered a few weeks ago by people who are being investigated for terrorist crimes. You are degrading this parliamentary institution to unsuspected limits in democratic Europe. [[Widow's remorse.]] I really don't know how embarrassing it is to deceive your own people, try to deceive citizens and so radically confuse what is a rule of law with what you intend to do, a totalitarian state. Mr. Torra, you have disobeyed the institutions, you have disobeyed the courts, you take it to the gala, as Mr. Puigdemont did, as Mr. Junqueras did, as Mr. Comín did, and I really insist on what I tell you, immunity is not impunity. And then, really, remember, this does not affect the conviction for a gentleman like Mr Junqueras, who is a criminal convicted of sedition and embezzlement. [[Strong remorse of voice and applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.57.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now I am.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.58.0	Well, Mr. Torrent. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Mr. Torrent...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.59.0	That's it! Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.60.0	I have to say that you have managed to endure Mr. Batet's skirmishes, which are spectacular, from here to there, and today you have managed to do it, and, as a matter of fact, I have been able to say what is there. Now, the truth has a lot of weight and the lie has very short cams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.61.0	Congressman... [[Greetings and cheers.]] Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. Separate votes had been requested from points 1.d and 1.i, and points, en bloc, 1.b, 1.c, 1.g and 2.a. Yeah. Say'm, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.62.0	Vote separate from '1.e.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.63.0	Okay. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Don't you? So we vote, in the first place, point 1.e. The vote begins. Point 1.e_was rejected by 62 votes in favour, 66 against and no abstentions. We're voting now on points 1.d and 1.i. The vote begins. Points 1.d and 1 were rejected by 38 votes in favour, 90 against and no abstentions. And now we're voting points 1.b, 1.c, 1.g and 2.a. The vote begins. These points were rejected by 38 votes to 73, with 16 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 55 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the government about the weather]] [[302-00174/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the Agenda, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. To expose her, has the word Mr Pol Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.64.0	Thank you, President. I feel like I'm lowering the level of the debate, but I'm going to talk about the ups and downs in Catalonia, I'm not going to talk about anything else, which at home is basically saying the things about eating. [[Some applause.]] Even if we face macroeconomic data that are not painful – as has been said here before, at the Faristol, previously, for other competitors–, if we go down in detail, we see how the Catalan economy has important problems and problems; we can go down in detail the situation of the industry, in many respects, and we can talk about Continental. Here he wanted to send a strong greeting to the workers who are today in demand to protect the places of work they have at the Rubí plant. And, obviously, we also welcome the fact that today, from here on, we will have a meeting with the Industry Councillor, which we have been able to force to try to address this situation that concerns hundreds of Rubí's families. But we also have problems with the services, as we have seen these days with the case of Ryanair, a company based in Girona and wants to keep it at the expense of lowering workers' rights to levels we have never seen practically before. And we can also rejoice, for this reason, because we have seen how the work inspection will work and also the Ministry of Work is acting to try to avoid this drama that we have seen in Girona. It is obvious that we are facing a profound change in the economy, and must be proactive in addressing it. We are all aware that we are ahead of a triangle formed for globalisation, technological change and climate change, and if we want to move this change, this process, successfully, we need to mobilize resources. They're making other countries; they're making France, they're making Germany, they're making the European Union. And, to do so, you have to have a much stronger, more able SOC to face the city's problems and accompany them as they are in the occupation situation. It may give tools to workers who are in a position to have worked for many years in an office and do not have their acquaintances recognized; they may be able to believe them professionally. It can, of course, reinforce the Industrial Pact, a pact which has been approved in this Parliament with drums and silverware and which is now absolutely put to rest. I want to strengthen it economically, but also politically. I'm asking the industry, social and economic agents, I'm asking the country. We cannot tackle a profound change in the industry without a pact like this on the march. Obviously, we want this Parliament to lead the debate on how to deal with changes to the labour market and how we share the growth of the new economy. We are facing a paradigm shift: we see how industry evolves, some tanks; we have platform economies; a new paradigm is ahead of us and we are not able to tackle it in conditions. And while we don't, a lot of people are left for the road: people without training, people who don't see a chance to find a new job while the Parliament, this theme, doesn't address it. And we saw it the other day with the debate with the counselor; I thought we talked about two different languages: while some were talking about employment programs, the others were calling something like a Marshall plan for economic transformation, and we are not making any effort in that sense. And, if we want to do it, our group is proposing a place to do it, a table and a chair, as I said in the previous intervention, a table and a chair to address how this economy of the future should be. And we want to do this through the work pact, as I explained a week ago, a work pact that worked in regions similar to ours, from the Balearic Islands to Emilia-Romania, to Italy. And obviously there are fears that we can't rule out when we're talking about motion on issues of industry and occupation. We have a car training center that's been running hot for years and that we're absolutely stuck on; a center where the threat is that the car builders are doing their own center and abandoning this initiative that there was, a center that hasn't been bid on. There's no time to lose, no time to lose, with this training center. And, of course, we are also concerned about reading news like we read the last few weeks about the loss of European foundations to combat unemployment, precisely at times when the crisis was the hardest we've ever experienced, when people were going through it a lot and very badly. And if we add this EUR 80_million to the EUR 42_million of the Youth Guarantee that we were to return, we add up to more than EUR 120_million not used in the fight against the weather in this country. Today we propose to take a little step, a little step forward, but I assure you that if we do not want to lose the train, we will have to start running and do so very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.65.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented has the word, first place, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, the lady Yolanda López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.66.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Labour market developments in Catalonia in recent months are not positive. Trade unions have warned of the fall of the indefinite recruitment recorded last November, with the increase of temporary recruitment and the precariousness of the labour market. At present, there are a total of 390,200 unemployed in Catalonia; only 13.49_percent of the total contracts registered in November have been indefinite, on the other hand, temporary contracts have meant an increase of..., they have been 86.51_percent. We are also seeing that redundancies by ERE in Catalonia continue to grow, with figures not seen since the crisis. Unfortunately, we closed the year with the highest figure since 2013, when more than eight_ thousand jobs were destroyed. Job losses like Huayi's, with 164 layoffs; Luxione, with 52 layoffs; Bayer, with 60 layoffs; Sada, with 240 layoffs; Prysmian, with about 500 layoffs; TE Connectivity, with 94 layoffs; and right now, we are seeing it here in Parliament, we have had the Continental, with 760 workers who have their employment pending a thread. And unfortunately, this is just a small sample. Those affected by ERE have risen in Catalonia by 38_per_cent in recent months. And this is not an invention. These indicators are present everywhere, they are also seen through judicial proceedings. The 2018 memoirs of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia show an increase in the judicial process in labour matters. From Catalonia to Comú Puermos we are very concerned about this situation and we ask the Government and the Department of Labour to work actively to protect a productive model of quality, stable and with guarantees to prevent the increase of precarious employment and also to inform the other parliamentary groups in order to establish joint strategies that avoid greater job losses in Catalonia. For this reason, we have tabled a 'point of addition to this motion, which we thank the Member Pol Gibert and the PSC that we have been able to negotiate, so that the Counsellor of Treball and the Counsellor of Enterprise i Coneixement will appear twice a year before Parliament to report on the EROs produced, on the evolution of the occupation in Catalonia and on the concrete measures taken to reduce them, as well as on the role of the negotiations. And in this regard we positively appreciate the pact for work between administrations that have presented the PSC in this motion. Regarding the industrial fabric, data from the last industrial barometer of COGITI and the General Council of Economists indicate that Catalonia has suffered a weight loss in the industry in its GDP higher than the rest of Spain. We have already been saying this in the past: the Government has to recover the time lost with the National Pact for Industry, because it is not being fulfilled. That is why we share with the PSC the need to strengthen resources, but, as we have also said on other occasions and we say again, it is now necessary for the Government to have a shared road map among all departments, because this is the only way for the Pact for Industry to move forward effectively. And as long as this doesn't happen, it's time, employment, and opportunities that we're missing. On the other hand, there is something else that is unacceptable: that the Department of Labour, a competent body in the field of employment, should not react to the precarious situation in which workers in the public service of the occupation of Catalonia are found, without a regulation of the employment relationship with the agency. That is why we will support all the points of this motion on matter. With regard to the Automotive Vocational Training Centre, the situation with regard to the outcome of the tender for the Martorell Centre transfers to the Government of Catalonia and, in particular, to the public occupation service, as the centre's holder, the responsibility to draw up and implement an emergency plan that would entail the end of the current blockade. Since its establishment five years ago, we cannot continue to allow the Automotive Vocational Training Centre to continue to work with minimum performance, being wasted as a strategic resource by a sector, such as the automotive sector, of maximum social and economic relevance to our territory. That is why we understand that... and finally, on the investigation of the 80_million European Social Fund, it seems to us that the PSC has put this point. We've already requested in due course [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] the Councillor's appearance to explain the situation and we put to you a subject of questions. And if I may...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.67.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.68.0	...as I won't have a chance to intervene and today is the last plenary, wish you a good holidays and a Merry Christmas. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.69.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Same thing. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carmen de Rivera has the word now. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.70.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members... The Parliamentary Group of Citizens will vote in favour of the motion submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the PSC i Units per Avançar. It seems to us a correct and timely motion, because there is nothing more current and more worrying about Catalans, that we have an unemployment rate of 10.9_per_cent, than unemployment, how best to manage this situation and the many or few chances of getting out of that unemployment situation. It is important to talk about these issues and the labour crisis in the Catalan industrial sector. In the past twelve months, according to the Labour Force Survey, the Catalan industry has destroyed 15,200 jobs and increased unemployment in the same twelve months in a thousand_100 people. The opposite is true of Spain as a whole. The industrial sector accumulates four quarters with year-on-year declines in GDP. And this week we have on the table the case of the company Continental de Rubí, where 760 jobs from its Rubí plant are endangered. Other troubled industrial companies have been Luxion, which had 52 layoffs; Bayer, with 75; Sada, 240 and closure of its plant in Lleida; Prysmian, 487 jobs; TE Connectivity, with 94; and Amplifon, with 82. That is why it is good to speak again in this plenary and to bring unemployment and the management of the SOC to the heart of the debate and the political agenda. We believe, and we will support it, that it is essential that during the next session a full report on the current state of the Servei d'Occupació de Catalunya is presented in this Parliament. Only from the knowledge of the state of the situation can improvements in its functioning be projected. But not only by studying how to organize or optimize there is enough; investment is needed, investment is needed. It is an essential requirement to provide SOC guidance staff to achieve adequate standards of care and to match or at least bring us closer to ILO ratios. I mean, it can't be that when the ILO ratio is eighty_y_five, of a technician for every eighty_y_five stopped, here we meet offices that have a ratio of 1,700 stopped by a technician, it's obvious. And we have to take care of these technicians and ensure that all SOC workers have stability at work. We cannot expect great management results with people who, even if they put above all their work and their professionalism, are, in addition to overflowing, in such a precarious situation as regards working conditions as the people they care for. We said that it is necessary to invest and provide the SOC with sufficient resources to become a real occupation office, that companies can send their job demands and that workers, at the same time, have updated curricula so that the SOC can offer customized courses to improve employability in a personalized way. And finally, I wanted to say that, as we have asked the SOC to assume responsibilities more directly related to its own functions, we believe that the SOC is not the most appropriate body to manage the centre of Martorell, since it is a vocational training centre, not an occupational training centre, which, even if it is similar, its objectives are not the same. For this reason, we thank Mr Gibert for presenting this motion, although he did not accept the amendment, which basically was that the SOC, when putting all its offer on the table, its training offer, did so by hand and in common agreement with the companies and the main unions to make an appropriate offer. I do not understand why they did not accept it, but, in the end, we will vote exactly the same. Nothing more. And thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.71.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Albert has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.72.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, Workers, Workers of Parliament, therefore, well, after the inquiry of Mr Gibert, so today we have this young man from the table ; a motion which initially had eight points, finally ended in nine points, and from which we have presented various papers ; papers which go in the line of, also, to bring even more light to the initial proposal of the Socialist Party. Yesterday we were meeting with the Continental Business Committee, we were meeting almost all the parliamentary groups of this chamber, and, in the background, what we have to explain today is exactly what we also said in that meeting and in that meeting. We are in front of a scene that faces us hard and which we have to look directly at the face; it is the stage of the stage and it is the stage of a redefinition of the whole industrial field, and, also, of all the policies that we are due in time to give answer to social needs. There are aspects that are of first impact, but there are others that, in change, are of more impact in the medium term, and in the longer term. Some questions are raised in this motion; one is the SOC. We shall therefore vote in favour of the different proposals; in fact, we have not negotiated, but in relation to the SOC, we must also make it clear that the Catalonian Occupational Service is shared and that this is also a good thing that we explain, there is capillaryness between the different public administrations of that country, and therefore, in the field of coordination and cooperation, we must find these results, and, for ourselves, when we evaluate the different technical reports of the Catalonian Occupational Service, but from the whole of its scope, we must take into account the public administrations and we must take into account all the capillary and the whole of the network, and therefore, from the whole of its scope, we must take into account the interests of the administration which are not exclusively concerned. With regard to Martorell's vocational training course, it seems to us that the proposal is not realistic. We have already said this, and we have discussed this during these anticipated days; it is little realistic to ask for the full application of the training offer for the 2020-2021 course at the time we are; we see little realistic. For this reason, we will not support it, but we will abstain from the proposal, because we know perfectly well that we are at a stage where, first, we have unlocked, after many years of having blocked it, thanks to the intervention of many departments, but above all thanks to the political will to unlock a space that we had blocked for a long time. Therefore, we are working there, and there will continue to work, and, from the government, it is a priority, the Professional Training Centre for Martorell's Automotive. Therefore, it is one of the important and key areas; what we cannot do is give and vote in favour of a proposal, which is point 7, which ensures that we can have the full offer by 2020-2021. So good, that's why we'll abstain, because we'll work, but we can't guarantee it at hours of this time. That's flying pigeons. But, on the other hand, there are other important aspects. You pointed it out: the Pact for Industry. We agree, the Industrial Pact is one of those essential elements that we must face up to and work on, and we must also do it in the Catalan labour relations framework, which is what you call the "Work Pact, we focus on the Catalan labour relations framework and the Labour Relations Council, which is driven, which has social dialogue, which is the tradition of this country and which we must continue to encourage and which we must deepen, and which is working in this area, and which proves that there are different work plans. Encany, we have one from 2019, and this is our bet. And, on the other hand, no one has said it, but it's the basis of all the pleas: the dismantling of accommodation, labor reforms: let's get rid of them, let's get rid of them already! , because a good part of all these accompaniments are supported by the fact that it is much more cheap to accompani the Spanish State than not to accompani other states of Europe and other states of the world. So – so – the companies, when they take their economic balances, what they see is that they come out much more cheap to welcome the people from here, than not the people of other countries. Derogation, yes, labor reform. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.73.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the word MP Saloua Laouaji ; when vulgui.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.74.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputy, councillor El Homrani, workers, very good morning. In representation of my parliamentary group, Junts per Catalunya, in relation to the motion following the Government's inquiry into the situation, I begin by commenting that we share most of the positions and appreciate the availability for the transactions in points 2, 6, 3 and 9. And, as he concluded, we will vote in favour of all points, minus point 7, because we believe that it is unsustainable and that we do not want to deceive the people. And, at the general level, with regard to the subject of this motion on the Attitude, I reflect on the work before talking about the Attitude. In all cultures of the world, work is a central value that occupies an important part of the lives of people and families, communities, cities and towns. It works as the main source of resources considered objectively necessary for material survival, and, also, of other means perceived intersubjectively as essential to develop us normally and feel well and secure in everyday life, in individual, social, political and cultural plans. The profound transformations, tensions, contradictions in the economic, political, social and cultural spheres that characterize the present transition are condensed and synthesized in the workplace, until the value of work is found before a dilemma, and, at present, represents both men and women, much more intense than two decades back. That's why we insist on the fact that tourism is a great political and social challenge. Yes, it is a repte with a capital degree, and a difficult problem with consequences that promote inequality, generate social exclusion, the poor, and cause a sense of social injustice that affects the dignity of people. Often we find that people at the time are in a situation of despair because they have exhausted their family and personal resources, and some manifest low states of soul, emotional discomfort, and, obviously, low self-esteem, and deep depressions, accompanied by feelings of humiliation, shame, guilt, and despair. All of this indicates the need to articulate a serious policy to meet the challenge of the trek with maturity and creativity. In Catalonia, with the escalate of the economic crisis of 2008, thousands of young and qualified people immigrated, and some re-immigrated in search of new opportunities. The data from the 2008 decade until 2018 say that more than 140,000 people have left, some data that show the depth of the economic crisis in our country. This fact not only implies the impossibility of guaranteeing decent living conditions for thousands of people, mostly young, who have to seek opportunities from other countries, but, moreover, supposes a great loss of potential and capital for their own development in Catalonia. Yesterday, in a meeting with the Continental business group, a woman expressed her indignation before the fact of the possible loss of work; she said: "I am twenty-five years old working for the business, and now I am forty-eight years old. That's why we're so young to retire. We need to reflect on this in order to hear the difficulty and denial of people, especially women, to join the labour market when they are over forty-five years old. And to put a line to the needle, as a matter of urgency, let us reiterate our demand to the Government of the State, when forms of government, a modification of the labor reform that allows us to ignore the negative effects that its application has had and is having on the conditions of work, and that enables, among others, the return to the prior administrative authority of the labor authority in the processes of gathering. Yes, as a review of urgent labour law; a review and modification of labour law. Certainly, the MP of the PSC used this term to mock me in the later intervention on Prysmian's loss, so I thought about it and I don't think we should claim the revision or modification, but obviously the derogation, as you claimed, as I said, at the time I didn't say. And, nothing, and finally, I wish everyone a lot of good holidays, in a 2020 with less time and more opportunity for work, freedom, justice and dialogue. And I also take this opportunity to express my congratulations to President Puigdemont, to Vice President Junqueras, to Councillor Antoni Comín, to Councillor Ponsatí. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.75.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To fix his position, he has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.76.0	To start the intervention with a little reflection..., what do we often refer to – and we do it all, eh? – to stand and stand, and perhaps we should have the reflection of referring to unemployed or unemployed, or unemployed, because it would seem that we are shifting responsibility to the workers and the workers who do not have work, who are those and those who suffer from it, eh? That said, let us move forward that we will vote in favour of all and every one, or every one of the agreements that are being made, but we would like to make some further reflections that I did not want to make in the form of an issue, because we would incorporate them into the motion that we would make to the ordinary plenary or to one of the full ordinary generations, but which seemed to us to be opportune. First question, and essential: the need to remove counter- labor reforms, and therefore, let us hope that a future government, if any, of the PSOE with the United We can, therefore, complement some with the fact of repealing the 2012 counter-labour reform of the PP, and other plans also repeal the 2010 counter-labour reform of the PSOE, which was until now politically maintained. Also important and decisive: that we have a timely repression of what it means not to protect our industrial policies; if we do not legislate, and we can do so from this Parliament, to avoid urban speculation, what we find is speculative economy, even when a company works, to account for better results. And the third question, we need to set up a reindustrialisation plan for our country, and reindustrialisation now has to be green and can be green. If we do not recover the industry as a motor of our economy, we are avocados and avocados to have a reality of generalized precariousness. And the last question, which I'm going to try to explain with a little arrest, because it's a very technical issue. Mirin, on the last point, point 9, which has been traded between the Socialist Group, the proposer, and the Catalonia Group in Comú Pode. If you read the point, you will see that you say: "The Councillor of Work, Social Affairs and Families and the Councillor of Business and Knowledge will appear twice a year before Parliament to inform about produced EROs. If this is approved, the only one they will need to inform will be the dispatchers of occupation regulation, day-time suspension and day-time reduction, and I understand that some proposers what they want is that it compares with the collegiate accompaniments. Therefore, this group proposes to them a statement in voice, which now formulates, that would be between products and EROs, adding the terms process of collection. That all the group spokespersons are manifesting that they accept it and that we can vote for it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.77.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr Daniel Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.78.0	Thank you, President, from the seat. The fight against unemployment is one of the priorities of any government, whatever political sign it may be. And, in that sense, it is true that SOC must play a more effective role in helping people who are unemployed. Today this is not the case, certainly because of the lack of human resources, because of the lack of technical resources, certainly also because of the lack of adaptation of the SOC to the new realities of the labour market, but we cannot discharge all responsibility in the SOC. It is true that industry occupies an important place in the occupational rate, but in the end, we are going to the important thing when it comes to generating employment, not only in the industry sector, but in any economic sector, which is economic growth, and we see how the cooling of the Catalan economy in recent months is closely linked to the negative employment data of recent months. Reforms and measures are needed to help boost the Catalan economy, and serious governments that provide stability. In this regard, the Government of Catalonia does not know whether it fits perfectly into the profile of serious governments that contribute to stability. It is true that neither the government that is being forged in Spain, in a pact with Podemos and with Esquerra Republicana. Thus, very black clouds are squeezing for the Spanish economy in general. Nor does the government's tax hike pact help with the commons, because in the end what it is going to contribute to is a drop in consumption and, therefore, also a rise in unemployment. Therefore, we will, yes, support the motion, because reforming the SOC is good, it is positive, revitalizing the Catalan economy and industry as well, improving training, of course. But, we insist, the clouds that surround the Spanish economy in general, with the pacts that are being developed in the offices, do not contribute precisely to the objective that is that of the motion, that is stable and quality employment. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.79.0	Thank you, Congressman. And, finally, to position himself on the exams, has a turn of the deputy Mr Pol Gibert. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.80.0	Thank you, President. In short, on the points, to say that the transaction was accepted with the Republic and Juntas Group for Catalonia of point 2, in which..., it is to reinforce the places of work in accounts to ask for the immediate recovery. Similarly, the same for point 3, with which the name of persons guiding the SOC's offices will gradually increase. The first issue of the Grupo d'En Comú Puem is accepted, on concrete who should lead the Pact for Industry. And we also accept item number 5 of the Republican and Junts Group, at point 6 of the motion. Finally, the emena that added to item 9 the deputy of In Comú Pueblo, and with the observation made by the deputy Vidal, seems perfect, let's say, include it between the text of the emena. If the doorman doesn't have a problem, because he's been here live, so we'd do it that way, we'd let him fit in, with which, if there's no problem, we'd do it that way. To say, lastly, that this young man sees a context, as has been said before, of an increase of 30 percent of the EROs in Catalonia. A 30_per_cent is not a small thing in a context of economic growth, and more so when the Director General of Industry tells us that they will be selling much more EROs in this country. With which you let me make two comments. One to the deputy of Esquerra Republicana, the deputy Jordi Albert, who said that it was a little realistic, to the deputy of Junts for Catalonia, said that it was unsustainable to ask the inn in march of the Center of Automotive Training of Martorell. Home, if after the time we wear, the years we wear, it's unsustainable or unrealistic to ask the inn to work, I don't know what we have to do with this training center anymore. I would also like to comment on the fact that putting the Labour Pact aside is raising the level of debate on this subject. And you've already called it a derogation, and I'm telling you to rule it out, and that's how we can repeal the labor reform. And lastly, the Member of the European Parliament for Catalonia gave me a very accurate account of the psychological consequences of the events, especially the long-lived people; and that's how I was able to accompany long-lived people and know how they are, right? But I say a thought to you: you are a government, you can act on this issue, you can't just talk about it, with which you act. And lastly, remind him that his party was the one that made possible the labour reform of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.81.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. I don't know if there are any separate voting petitions in this young man... [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak and the president gives them the word.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.82.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 7.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.83.0	We're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're... We shall vote first on point 7, from which a separate vote has been requested, and the rest of the motion... Let's vote, then, point 7. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved by 67 votes in favour, against and 62 abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved, namely 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the government's inquiry into housing]] [[302-00177/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into housing. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, to expose it has the word the deputy Mr Sergio Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.84.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillor... this is the motion we brought to you regarding the inquiry we made last week. They will find 14 points in which we talk about different measures to facilitate access to housing for citizens. And in the first of them, what we do is propose that tax escalation be introduced to the purchase of the usual housing. It does not seem reasonable to us that a worker who acquires a dwelling of 120,000 euros should pay the same percentage of property transfer tax as a wealthy person who acquires a dwelling of 600,000 euros, whether in Matadepera or Galapagar. Of course, it does not seem reasonable to us to pay the same taxes for normal housing as for second residences. They may say that this diminishes the Generalitat's income, but it is that all the proposal we put to them in relation to housing implies a decrease in the Generalitat's income through the ITP, because we want it to lower the price of housing. If the price of housing falls, the collection of taxes on the price of housing will be reduced. What the Generalitat would have to do is increase its collection or finance it by other mechanisms, more just, linked to income or property, but not imposing an essential and difficult-to-access property such as housing. But, of course, the Generalitat increases its collection further the higher the price of housing. Similarly, it seems reasonable to introduce criteria of equity to housing taxes, and that also means taxing those who are not fulfilling their social function, that is, those dwellings that are not occupied. Therefore, in paragraph 2 of the motion, we propose to facilitate the application of an IBI surcharge to those who are permanently unemployed, as provided for in Royal Decree 2/2004. We aim to facilitate access to housing for our fellow citizens. Therefore, the motion also envisages measures such as extending the period of coverage of Avalloguer to one year or creating autonomous incentives in the IRPF for those rented dwellings at a price below 90_per_cent set out in the rental price reference index. And you can say that that means reducing the Generalitat's income, but if we manage to reduce the price of housing we can also reduce the need to allocate a lot of resources to it. I cannot stop at the fourteen points that the motion has, but I can say that it incorporates various measures to increase the public park of housing and that of protected housing available to the Administration. One of them is to encourage the creation of sheltered housing ceilings in existing buildings, facilitating projects for the change of use or segregation of dwellings aimed at their incorporation into public social rental exchanges. This can be achieved, for example, by modifying housing density requirements or by making other policy parameters more flexible without compromising their habitability. We also propose that the impact of limiting rental prices for those over thirty-five years of age who have not been rehabilitated to adapt to current regulatory requirements be analysed, both for the rental offer and for the rehabilitation of housing. My view is that it can serve to contain rental prices and, at the same time, provide an incentive for the energy rehabilitation of housing, with the environmental benefit that this entails in order to achieve the objectives of combating climate change. That is why we propose that the Catalan Institute for the Evaluation of Public Policies study it. In parallel we also propose an autonomous pact for housing that has a goal of one decade, that is that the Generalitat every year has twelve_ thousand new public housing for social rent. Not every year – I'm sorry –, every four years. That requires investment. We therefore also propose the creation of the fund of resources for the promotion of access to housing, for which we also suggest where its allocation could proceed. In the question to the Councillor, I asked him why the data indicate that the policies of the Generalitat offer worse results than those of the rest of the autonomous governments. I also asked him if he would comply with the resolutions adopted in Parliament: one, related to the maintenance of public ownership of residential land, preventing sales of Incasòl; another, with providing housing policies of 1,000_million_de_euros per year for a decade. Instead of answering, I was upset and told that I had talked about the process. So, looking for answers to those unanswered questions, we ask you to vote in favour of the Government instructing Ivàlua to carry out a comparative study among the public policies of the different autonomous communities, and also to ratify Parliament's commitment to those resolutions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.85.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. It has the word now, to defend the papers presented, in the first place, the deputy Rosa Maria Ibarra, of the Socialists and Units Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.86.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, today we speak again about housing, as we have already done in other motions, some of our group, some of some other group... And we do so in this motion proposed to us by the Ciutadans Group, which sets out various actions to affect housing in a general way. In fact, we are working on this young man, but with an eye placed on this possible decree that it seems that the government will finally approve and that it should focus or work on concrete actions on urgent issues, but it should also lay these foundations for a much more general action in the field of housing. And it's that we all agree that it's a general focus and a general work on housing issues and we agree the group, at least those of the opposition, that it's also a higher endowment of housing resources, because we really believe that this endowment is small if we take into account the needs that exist in this area. We also agree on the need to work together with other administrations that have skills in housing. To coordinate the Government of the Generality, in this case the Department of Territories, especially with the assemblies, in order to agree on housing policies that are truly effective, we believe that it is absolutely necessary. Unfortunately, the mass of the joints has to be swept away before critical habitat situations; for example, the situations that are given in the case of the col·lapsing of the months of emergence or for the occupation of dwellings that entails consequences for families that are involved in the occupation, this practical, and that many times are extorted by the mafia, but also the joints, where this phenomenon is more present. But it is not only necessary for this concertation that allows joint lines and coordinates that will be much more productive, but also for actions decided for the creation of a suitable habitat. Mirin, today we know of a study by the Council of the Youth of Spain in which it was said that young Catalans are the ones who have to make the most economic effort to be able to pay for housing and, therefore, to emancipate themselves. In fact, the study says that you have to dedicate 119.7_percent of your son; therefore, a young sun can hardly get a habitation. Therefore, we have already said many times, this collection, the collection of the youngest people, are really the most harmed at the time of getting a habitation and so we, too, direct the policies in this sense..., are doing to this collection. Entering the motion that Ciutadans proposed to us today, we believe that he wants, for one thing, to manifest, obviously, the shortcomings of the Government, but he also proposes certain actions that we believe may be interesting. We appreciate the timing of the motion positively, even though we will vote against some of its points, but in any case we would like to thank him, as always, for the willingness of Mr Sergio Sanz to talk about the issues in order to reach agreement. We know that they have also done so with the groups that raise the government and have accepted some of its considerations, and in some cases these are in the same direction as ours. Therefore, I believe that, as I said before, we agree, the groups, in the work to be done. As for the concrete points, we will not vote in favour of the first point, in which they raise tax incentives in the acquisition of 'usual living'. We understand that the effort of the Administration must go, whether through expenditure or through smaller entrances, centered on what we really lack, which is a suitable housing. In addition, we believe that this point is contradictory to the 11.b of the same motion, that it postulates a change from the model of access to the 'living place, from a model based on ownership to a loguer. Therefore, we need to focus the actions in this sense. We will vote in favour of the other points of the motion, some of which contain in text what we already anticipated in the motion that we presented a few months ago. Point 6, as we hear it, is totally open. They have accepted the outpouring of government groups talking about strengthening the housing base for social policies, in order to improve the coordination of differences in public administration, in order to implement an effective strategy for the comprehensive management of public housing assets. We will be pleased to see what this means and in what it is concrete. With regard to the point of an autonomous housing pact, we have presented the terminological idea of naming it as it was called, which is the National Housing Pact. Of course, to you this "national does not bind them and, therefore, they have not accepted it, but we will not vote against them, because, as I say, what we are interested in is the content. And lastly, we will vote against point 12, which we believe should not be a source of resources for promoting access to housing, but rather what the government believes is that housing policy and affordable housing are a priority and that the necessary resources should be allocated to the assumptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.87.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, he, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà, says the deputy Mr José Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.88.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs, MPs, Workers and Workers of Parliament, members of the Government. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Sergio Sanz for his ability to speak, to try to reach agreement. And, while it's true that we have very different elements of the model or the solutions that we have to face, or even, sometimes, more than the background of the forms, I think there are dialog lives that we could continue to work on. Our reviews have tried to improve the most constructive and coincidental part and, even though we haven't managed to deal with everything we liked, we are satisfied with the possibility of this dialog. It is very difficult to deal with the problem of the housing of foundations when from this Parliament, from the skills that an autonomous community has there is an element that we cannot touch, that is the institutional structure that gives support to the housing that is today a business and not a good of use..., it is not, in fact, a right. That is to say, it is very difficult for us to deal with some of this Parliament which has made investments that are close to people's mortgages, which have made investments that are not taxed, that the banks have been able to negotiate with our habitats. We can't solve this issue here. We've been pleased that the young lady as a minimum has mentioned it, but it forms part of these elements of difference. It is also true that there are more elements of difference. We, for example, believe that, surely, the price limitation of the topall logger can have a greater effect than perhaps some of the measures that can be seen in this motion. We believe that a limitation with a topall can do the same effect as the minimum wage does. The minimum wage is not just the lowest wages, but the average wages; a topall of the highest loguers pulls down not just the highest loguers but the rest of the loguers. You also want to create tax incentives for the sale of housing and, said the MP of the PSC earlier, it is in the background to deepen a problem. We know where these tax breaks have gone, they've gone to increase the price of housing. Already the sellers and the banks gave in fact that the buyer would already have these tax benefits and, therefore, all that he would do is continue to deepen the problem of the housing model that generated the Spanish State. We do agree on some elements that we need to assess, and that is why we believe that taxes on empty habitats are to be assessed, but we believe that we need to study all the capacities that we can have in limiting housing prices. It is a subject that seems very tabooly ideologically, and I understand that from a group that calls itself liberal this does not like them very much; we are, perhaps, at this point more distressed and we share with this Parliament the intention that reducing the price of housing can come because of these limitations, and you do not. But it doesn't matter. It is also surprising that an increase of 1,000_million euros is required in the investment in housing. And, it's true, it has to be more inverse than there is now, but, of course, if we ask the same motion for a tax reduction, which would mean less than 320_million euros in admissions, and an increase of 1,000_million euros, that's... I don't know how many TV3s are to be locked, huh? or how many xiringuites we can close to reach the difference of 1,320_millions. I think we should have this debate, maybe, in the presuppositional debate, which is where we need more rigour and we need to say where we're going and where we put the money. Finally, to say that we may not agree on solutions or forms, but we believe that we share an objective, that we are improving the lives of Catalans and Catalans, and that we believe that the struggle against the rise of the prices of the habitats to lodge in this country, and that the habitation is not basically a business, rather than a good, that we can enjoy the citizens and that we need it, in this we agree. On this, I also announce that the Department of Justice is working on a bill of urban leases that will put us down to European standards, and I hope that in this debate we can find and make it together. In today's motion we have points, conflicting elements, but the invitation, Mr. MP, sit and talk. It's not just, that, it's for the process. Sit and talk, let's work and see what points we have in common and continue working together to find solutions. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.89.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers, Mrs Anna Erra, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, now has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.90.0	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Counsellor, Members of Parliament, we are well aware that housing is a problem in Catalonia. Now, it also needs to be noted and made clear that it is one of the Government's priorities, because it does not care and cares, and it is clear that it has to act both in providing solutions to problems in order to access a habitat such as working for the recovery of the accessible housing stock, both public and private, as well as in providing solutions to problems in order to pay for the logist or solutions before social emergence. And before that, we could ask ourselves: "What is the government doing? What do the joints do? What's the State doing? The Government of the Generality is competent in matters of soil and habitation, fully competent, and fate there is, that it is. Now, where he's not competent, he's in the economic distribution that the state makes, or in the small endowment that they make of us for housing programs. We were pleased that in this young man we found some point in claiming this best economic contribution from the State to us. When will they recognize that one of the difficult problems that Catalonia has is due to the fiscal deficit? You, in change, in the motion claim that the Government give compliment to the increase in the budget earmarked for public housing policies to reach a minimum of 1,000_million for two years. For us it would be a desirable, now well, unstoppable horitzo. And we're going to see why. Above all, for two major structural problems. First of all, the squandering provided, as I have already said, with the State Housing Plan, which only brings us 50_millions, which are very far from those arriving in 2009, which is only 100_millions, and which is more than just conditioned by this economic amount, they also do not let us or decide which programs we want to devote them to. The complaint – and now there's the counselor – that the counselor often did, and that it would also have been good for this young man to have this claim to the State. Secondly, the fiscal rules currently in force limit the ability to increase public spending, and the Government of Catalonia is still in a situation of deficit reduction, which by 2020 is set at 0_per_cent. There would only be one possibility – and they can help us if they want to – if we get the transfer of what the State gives us, of the debts accumulated with the Generality, which amount to 11,000_million euros. It should be noted that the Government, in terms of housing, in addition, has the will to draw up two decrees which include a whole set of measures: decree of urgent measures for the subject of the promotion of liquefaction, to increase the legislative capacity of the Government to increase the liquefaction park, through mechanisms such as taneig and retraction, to act through the taxation of empty habitats, to work for social emergence, to limit the increments of liquefaction. And also, because of the problem of the logger, we have to be aware that the Generalitat has allocated 100_million euros this year 2019 to help people from families in a vulnerable situation, with a program of very ambitious grants. And from here on out, what are we doing out here? I'll explain it to you with an example. Thanks to programs of diagnosis of hundreds of empty floors, programs to encourage the rehabilitation of these floors and put them in the bag of qualifiable logger, I am glad only to citizens as in Josep and Carme, two deafmutes of my city, thanks to these initiations, can already live in a pis of these characteristics. Those of us who are in the territory, long ago, with the agreement of the Catalan Habitat Agency and with the availability and possibilities of each municipality, we worked very hard to improve the lives of our citizens. And in this aspect we would remain: and the State? And what does the State do? So, it would be a good thing that you really showed now, before your dialog gains..., that you make a good contribution to the housing plan, and obviously, also given the answer to the solution to the structural problem that is for our country the fiscal deficit that we suffer from so many years ago. For all this, in this young man, we will reject most of the points, and we thank the Member for his acceptance of the points that we have asked him for, because we are clear, and the Government is clear, that he is working and has as his priority to advance and improve housing policies for the citizens of our country. Because as much as we are clear that our policies of action are not to be good for the citizenry, but to be good for the citizenry. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.91.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To fix her position she has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.92.0	Yes, thank you very much. I think it is a shame to thank the Member of the House for presenting this motion for a resolution. It seems interesting to us to be able to work with the Ciutat Group in proposals that they have to see and that can come into concrete themes on issues that concern people, effectively, such as housing. I think we have been able to talk, but we have different models and we have been able to discuss it, and it is interesting to be able to discuss and counter models, in which I think it is a constructive debate, which we have to be able to do precisely to Parliament – or, as a matter of fact, that is why I was here. And we have different models, in many ways, some questions have been said before. One of the main proposals, which is the reduction of taxes, the tax on capital transfers, with the aim of stimulating the purchase, as we say, we believe is to be wrong in the diagnosis. We believe that the problem is that we are in a real estate bin where one of the elements that has contributed to this has been an excessive bet from public authorities on the culture of buying housing, encouraging tax measures to buy housing, which has caused scandalous pricing, and we believe that actually the proposal that is to reduce the tax on capital transfers as a function of the price of buying the fish and whether or not it is usual habitat will not affect the lowering of the price of buying housing, but more than we believe that guaranteeing the right to housing does not mean guaranteeing the right to buy a habitat. Now, guaranteeing the right to housing, taking into account the economic situation of very many people who cannot even raise mortgages of EUR 120,000, because more than the mortgage requirements have endured, is clearly the reversal for the logger, the reversal for a social logger, the reversal to lower the price of the logger. And, in any case, if we want to lay down a reduction in the tax on capital transfers, it has to be linked to income, as for example the proposal for tax reform that we have presented dilluns, which in some cases does raise, in concrete terms, in single-parent families of up to 30,000_euros, the decrease to 5_per_cent, of this 10_per_cent. But linked to income: people who earn less than 30,000_euros of annual admissions. Because a EUR 120,000 pes can also buy someone who has a lot of money, because it doesn't mean that if you have a lot of money and buy a bigger pes. A small pea can also buy someone who has a lot of money, or a pea of 120,000 euros, and we don't have to encourage that. Another of the model problems we find in this motion for a resolution is that it does not differentiate between large and small owners at the time of raising tax incentives. I mean, we don't think you're going to have to incentivize the big guys, whether they're physical people or legal people. What these great lords have to do is to correlate with the problem of the social emergence that we are living, and to pose on the part, and to hear that housing is a right, not a business, not a speculation. That's why we don't think we share Ciutadans' model in good part of his measurements. It is true that there are no more than yes, there are no others who will be able to vote; everything that increases the reversal, everything that improves coordination mechanisms... It is true that the autonomic pact, tell us autonomic pact, because they mean autonomic pact... Well, there is the national pact, but in the end it is the idea of coordination and aligning policies and we will also give support because it is the objective. But it's actually contradictory. Or so, we've already mentioned it before. For one band, we reduce the tax on heritage transmissions, for another band, we increase resources, but it is more than that that they propose the creation of a fund than one of the taxes from which they feed is the tax on heritage transmissions, which you want to reduce. Either it is reversed and money is obtained through fair taxation, or we will not get the resources to invest in social spending. And it's a model theme, and it's fine. We do not share the model of taxation with you, nor with Pilar Rahola, which is thought to be a middle class in haste. So, no, we don't share what a middle class in haste means, nor the vision that they have to pay more than they have. And his move doesn't fit into this, because the 95% reduction in IBI doesn't make a distinction between big and small. And the big bad guys have to have and have, for the 24/2015 Law, the obligation to offer social loggers to people at risk of residential exclusion. There is no need to encourage tax incentives. It's an obligation, it's a responsibility for the law. For all this there will be some points in what we believe, we seem interesting that they start to move forward and see the light at the end of the tunnel of preus regulation, because if they do not clearly support it, as at least, they argue that a study is necessary for concrete habitats of how impactary. It seems to me a good news that, in this sense, Ciutadans is mogui and we believe that it is interesting the reflection and, therefore, we will also vote in favour. In this sense, we urge all the groups in the chamber, which, on such fundamental issues as housing, effectively can work together, be able to counter problems and find – as we have done with the plethora of women – common ground for those who can make a country policy for this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.93.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP-Crida Constituent, it is the turn now of Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.94.0	Thank you, President. Well, two minutes and a half and fourteen points. I'm leaving. The first point continues to encourage purchase as the only stable form of access to the right to habitat and, therefore, this has led to a way of conceiving the habitat that has brought us here. Therefore, we will stand against it. The second point is all insufficient, so we will abstain. Sub-managers are neither expected nor expected, and joint ventures do not have inspection resources to develop hundreds of empty floors. With regard to the third point, we believe that it is necessary to prohibit the increase in the prices of the logger and not to improve the owners. Germany, for example, is not an example and is not a communist country. Point four, I would like to remind you of the campaign being waged by the Llogaters Union on this index of reference and how speculators are using it to increase the price of the Llogater with full impunity. Five, it also refers to this index and, therefore, we will also position ourselves against it. If so, we will abstain, since this point does not question the ownership of the habitats of this source, when the Catalan Countries, precisely, the percentage of public habitat does not rise to 2_per_cent. The set points, abstention. We will abstain because there is a lack of concreteness of what would be the criteria for limitation and we would like a broader study. As far as the eighth point is concerned, we will be in favour of it and, therefore, do not give arguments. We'll be in favour of the new one as well. And the desire, on the uses and subdivisions, we understand that they are linked to very concrete requirements laid down in the legislation and that, therefore, more legislative facilities for the building owners is not what they need, but rather that the horse is to establish a law with a certain percentage of ‘living' destined for social logue. We're going to abstain because we think it's a toast to the sun and it's still encouraging the lease company like APIs. For another band, the dot doesn't look bad and so we'll abstain. And the thirteen and fourteen points we shall vote in favour in coherence with our position on the resolutions to which they refer. Well, I did, didn't I, in two minutes and a half? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.95.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs Esperanza García has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.96.0	I seem to have the same problem as the MP from the CUP. Well, once we started reading the motion that brings us here, first it's kind of an optical illusion because we thought that what Citizens were proposing was a shift in all housing policies, but it's true that as we went into it, we realized that we were faced with a trap. And why do I say this? Because many of the measures proposed are precisely measures adopted in the Councils of Ministers on Fridays of propaganda by the Sánchez government. And therefore we find it somewhat paradoxical that the party of the very liberal and very liberal because it proposes to us that: application of measures of the government of Sánchez. But it is true that the Member's effort to get the positive vote on one of the points is commendable and there are positive things that we are going to vote for. I am not going to make point by point, I am going to make blocks of each of the measures that you propose. As a model of public housing, we do not share the model that you propose, just as we do not share the model of the containers of the Lords of Podemos and therefore we will not vote for them. In all those measures that involve encouragement, better coordination and greater commitment of resources to public housing, and in addition to fulfilling the commitments made in Law 4 of 16, we will vote in favour of all of them. We will also vote in favour of all those cases where less taxes are required... No, we will vote against, sorry, all those cases where more taxes are requested and where we think that there is too much interventionism, such as the price of rents because we believe it is not good to get into the market and because the effect on the purpose pursued by these interventions produces precisely the opposite effect. Therefore, in those, we shall vote no. We are already at point number one, which is the discount of the ITP. Well, look, we're going to vote them out. And theoretically we are totally in favour of that, but we are going to ask you to do an exercise in liberalism. We have just registered a proposal to reduce the ITP and documented legal acts, both of them. We are going to vote no to this one, and yet we ask them to vote in favour of ours. Why? Because she's unambitious. And then because, besides, you leave me out to large families, you leave me out to people with disabilities. And, therefore, we understand that since you are very and very liberal, we will ask you for that vote in favour of this proposal for a more ambitious rebate that will come to full soon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.97.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, it's a new turn for Congressman Sanz to position himself on the issues. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.98.0	Thank you, President. Well, the truth is, I'm grateful because some people have told me that we're very liberal, others that we're very socialist. I think that virtue is in policies that are effective and not so much in ideological premises. I don't think you're referring any further than that. Yes, he meant that he confided..., the proposal we made from the ITP is not to encourage the purchase of housing or this as a model, but simply introduce criteria that curiously have told me with fair taxation, fairness and fiscal progressivity. Because what we're asking is to look at what's going on. He told me that a person with a lot of money can also buy a 120,000 home. Yes, but it is that the people who benefit from this are those who have this as usual. A person who has a lot of money, a lot of resources, will surely opt for a bigger habitation. And one of the problems that many young and many families have in accessing a buying habitat – which they also want and we need to make it easier – is the initial expense they have to make in order to access the mortgage credit. Then, from Esquerra Republicana em deien of the institutional structure. Well, I want to say that the policy of territorial planning, not selling private land and investing in public park can serve to lower prices and this is the competence of the Generality and is not doing so. Congresswoman Anna Erra spoke three times about the fiscal deficit. Clearly, here, fiscal deficit actually is fiscal insolidarity, because there are also income transfers between richer and poorer communities, eh. Here one day we could have someone from Tabàrnia who would say of the fiscal deficit that Tabàrnia has with the rest of Catalonia. And it's a very inconvenient message and it's fake. And here what is demonstrated is that the Government of Catalonia reverses half the middle of what they reverse the rest of the autonomous communities, by the decision of its own government. In any case, many thanks to all the Members. It is a pleasure to be able to talk with all of you, with Mr. José Rodríguez, with Mrs. Rosa Maria Ibarra or also with Susanna Segovia, because it is a very important issue and we need to think a lot, talk a lot and look for the right solutions. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.99.0	Thank you, Members. Call it a vote. [[Eva Granados Galiano and Maria Sirvent Escrig ask to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Granados and ma'am Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.100.0	Yes, to ask for separate '1' and '12' votes, which can be voted together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.101.0	Lady Sirvent, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.102.0	Yes, President. I know it's hard, but we need a separate vote from all points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.103.0	All right. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Say, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.104.0	Separate vote from '1, 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.105.0	...separate vote from all points. Therefore, we shall vote separately from all points. [[Albert Batet i Canadell asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.106.0	President, a point of order. We ask the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia which is summoned Board of Spokespersons before the events that have just taken place, that it has been known that there is a feeling of incapacity to the President of the Generality of Catalonia, President Torra, and we believe that there must be a concrete manifestation of the Board of Spokespersons rejecting this statement. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.107.0	In any case, Mr. Batet, we'll talk to the groups and call this doorman's meeting to which they have a right. [[Carles Riera Albert asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.108.0	Yes, it's to give support to the request for this summons as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.109.0	Thank you. In any case, let's proceed to the vote, and then we'll call this Spokesman's Meeting. I insist, we'll talk to the groups. We vote separately for all the points of this young man. So let's start with point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been rejected by 35 votes to 94, with 1 abstention. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 122 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. And now we're voting point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 118 votes to 12, with no abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has been rejected by 51 votes in favour, 79 against and no abstentions. And now we're voting five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been rejected by 59 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. And we're voting now on 6. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 126 votes in favour, against and 4 abstentions. And we're voting now on 7. The vote begins. At point 7 there was a tie: 63 votes in favour, 63 against and 4 abstentions. So we're going to have to re-vote point 7. Let's go back to voting on 7. The vote begins. There's been a tie again at 63. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] There's been a new draw. So let's go back to voting point 7. The vote begins. The same coat has been produced again; therefore, point 7 is not approved. Let's move to point number eight. The vote begins. Point 8_has been approved by 93 votes in favour, 36 against, no abstentions and 1 Member who has not voted. Let's just go ahead and vote point number nine. The vote begins. Point 9_has been approved by 66 votes to 64, with no abstentions. And we're voting now on the 10th. The vote begins. Point 10_has been rejected by 51 votes to 71, with 8 abstentions. And we're voting now on the 11th. The vote begins. At point 11 there was a tie of 63 votes and 4 abstentions. So let's re-vote this point number 11. The vote on point 11 begins again. The same draw was produced at 63 votes. We shall therefore proceed to a third vote. The vote begins. Finally, it was approved; it was approved with 63 votes in favour, 62 against and 4 abstentions. And now we're going to vote point 12. The vote begins. Point 12_has been rejected by 46 votes to 80, with 4 abstentions. And now we're voting point 13. The vote begins. Point 13_has been approved by 64 votes to 63, with no abstentions. And now we're voting point number 14. The vote begins. Point 14_has been rejected by 62 votes to 63, with 4 abstentions. There are no more points of this young man. So let's move on to the new order of the day, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the digitization of the product fabric, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. To expose it has the word of Congressman Jordi Munell. [[Long break. Maria Sirvent I write asking to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Sirvent?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.110.0	Thank you, President. Simply to clarify the meaning of the previous Member's vote, bearing in mind that we were wrong and this made the 14th point decanted in one sense. We wanted to vote in favour at 14 and we abstained.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.111.0	All right, stay sharp. Thank you. It'll be on the record. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the digitization of the product texture]] [[302-00178/12]] When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.112.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Well, with this motion that we present on the industry of the future in Catalonia, on the day of the digitization of the industrial sector, what we address is a key question for our country; it is the future evolution and transformation, immediately, of the industrial fabric. Industrial fabric, industrial fabric, we know that it is very important for our country. In fact, 2017 was to promote, with a broad consensus, the National Pact for Industry. The industrial sector generates jobs normally more stable and remunerated than other sectors, also with a strong presence in our home. Plus, it's got a massive import to boost the industry's entire network, huh? At the service level, logistics or subcontracting, huh? Therefore, therefore, it is a strategic sector for Catalonia, and therefore we want to continue to feel it. And, therefore, in this sense we must be aware that this sector is patenting, therefore, the influence of the changes that are occurring in the world, and we are, in fact, living what in the day of the 4.0 transformation or what we could also announce as a fourth industrial revolution, a change of time. And, therefore, like the country, Catalonia cannot be free to accompany all our industrial product fabric at this time change. And so, with this young man, what we want to do is to put into value the work that the government is already doing, the work that the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge is doing, but sometimes I also make proposals in favor, huh? , to consolidate, therefore, this transformation. In fact, the company Pallarès, in the inquiry that made, therefore, last week to the councillor, already talked about that before this transformation it needed to redefine models of business, to rethink production structures and value chains, to rethink the formation of workers and workers, to incorporate also in the work, therefore, the new skills that require this new industrial perspective. This is an inevitable transformation, and therefore we can either stay out of it or follow it. And so, our will is to follow it, huh? As we say, the industrial fabric already represents over 20_percent of the gross value added, and, moreover, with another feature in Catalonia, that 95_percent of this fabric is small enterprises; small and very small enterprises, huh? Very large companies surely have more ease in following market trends and adaptations; small businesses have the most costs, and therefore the Administration and the Government have the need and the willingness to accompany them in this change. We are also aware that we are not starting from scratch, that there are already open funding lines to apply, therefore, the new technologies: connectivity, information and knowledge technologies, robotics, sensorys, nano-themes, huh? And, therefore, there are already steps taken in the march: the line of the Catalan Institute of Finance Industry 4.0, the Demo line; des d'Acció also boosts the program..., the coupons to innovation and industry 4.0; the Innotec program, for R & D projects in the industrial camp. We also have to put in value that to the strategy Horitzó 2020, European, therefore, there has been..., more than 300_million euros have come to our country, to Catalonia, a 2.5_percent of the total European, a 28_percent of the State. Some 327 entities have joined or participated, of which 80_percent– 193– are companies. It has also been captured, through the Search programs, 310_million euros, as we say, in this sense. Or another example: a few days ago, the Councilwoman also announced, the coming year, a new feature of the audiovisual technology sector, an international feature, which is now in Amsterdam; the ISE. And, therefore, they are betting on this sense of transforming this business fabric of ours and diversifying it into these new trends. At the assembly of the young man we have made transactions with some parties; therefore, I also appreciate the good predisposition. And, with other parties, in the case of Citizens, we also accept their arguments, in the sense that, as I have already put into evidence, the Government too – in some of these topics that you have proposed – is already working on it and, therefore, the will is to continue working on it. Also a final reflection. We are on the verge of a presupposition 2020, and therefore the department and the same motion also commend us that we have sufficient resources to carry out this transformation in the field of industry and to enhance and complete the development of the National Pact for Industry; a reflection in high view that from Junts to Catalonia, also, with our partners that we support the Government, we also launch, therefore, to the joint government, eh? , and at the pool of parties that will support the premise, because it is necessary for the Department of Enterprise to have sufficient resources to face this 4.0 revolution in the industrial fabric of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.113.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the presentations, has the word, on behalf of the Popular Party of Catalonia, the Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.114.0	Yes, thank you very much. Simply, to move the content of our item, which has been transactional. To advance that we will gather the assembly of the young man, that we understand that it is necessary and that, moreover, fits perfectly with what the proposals of the People's Party in matter have been. Our goal basically consists of three points. First, take a follow-up to analyze the impact of digitization on the world of work both at quantity and quality effects of work places. Secondly, to create as soon as possible a stable group of the Català de l'Empresa Council – which is, of course, very well explained, a measure envisaged in the National Industrial Pact. And finally, and they get these two first decisions, to ensure that the government departments affected have representation in this body of follow-up on the labour impacts of the industry. Thank you, then, for having been able to deal with the emena, as I think practically all of them. And the text, as a result, we will collect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.115.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the exams, has now the word, for the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, the lady Maialen Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.116.0	Good. Thank you, President. Counsellor, deputies, good morning to you all. It is obvious that the 21st century has brought us the digital revolution in all areas and our business system could not be an exception to it, nor is it alien. The adaptation to new technologies by our productive fabric is essential to be able to compete. A study carried out by the University of Barcelona concludes that companies that have been born digital or are carrying out a deep digitization process have a level of resilience twenty times higher than those companies that are not carrying out this digital transformation. 50.7_percent of our Catalan companies say that this digital transformation has led to an increase in their productivity, customer loyalty, an increase in market share and an increase or development of new products. Our companies know that they must adapt to the global world, which is constantly changing; they are not alien to this digital transformation. That is why, in principle, the measures carried out by this Government seem to us to be well thought out or that all that is intrinsically supporting our companies, by our parliamentary group, will count on our support. They are the government; prove it: govern. As I have already told you on previous occasions, it seems ridiculous to me to question themselves, to question the company councillor herself, here present, who is from her own party, for carrying out measures that are as necessary for our companies as obvious in their execution. It is not an extraordinary thing; it is what any medium-complete government would have to do. Or is it simply a ballet with included feedback? The inquiry you presented last week, from which this motion derives, is a calcum of the Proacció, 4.0 program, which you presented, counselor, a few days ago, at the end of November. Of course, that's what it means to have inside information and first-hand information. We are involved in a marketing campaign, an image wash in front of the gallery, pretending to show concern for companies and their digital future. However, they start the house on the roof. What they have to do is to guarantee legal and political security, if they do not want to see companies no longer left in Catalonia to be able to sell their digital advertising campaign, because I remind them that it is already 5,679 companies that have left Catalonia and have no intention of returning. First they strive to cast those of the autonomous community with their independent delusions, and then their electoral competitor in the executive, that is, Esquerra, negotiates with Podemos the budgets, with Podemos precisely, that they are real experts in creating companies, in risking their own personal, family or even health heritage in creating jobs, when all they know how to do is increase the fiscal pressure of an increasingly less attractive autonomous community to fix here their investments or their residence. You yourself mention in the fourth point the car, and precisely a few days ago we knew here, in parliamentary seat, that the SEAT itself, essential in Catalonia, was proposed to leave in the bad days of the autumn of 2017, and still today that uncertainty persists; and, if not, let's look at the images of yesterday in Barcelona after the classic. We are tired of seeing proposals that fall into a broken bag, of unfulfilled motions, of electoral propaganda that do not materialize at all. Its government obligation is to ensure that our autonomous community, which is Catalonia, which belongs to a country, which is Spain, and to a continent, which is Europe, is at the forefront in all areas of business, and of course also in the field of digitisation. And in this respect we had tabled our amendments, which have been surprisingly rejected, because what they did, being quite benevolent, is to incorporate time limits into their own requests, which seemed to us to be quite reasonable. And we have been the only parliamentary group to which they have not been accepted. I mean, with this they show us once again that they have no intention of doing anything at all. However, the amendments tabled to them by the SGP group, in which they spoke or left in their hands, these compliances, with the budget allocation, have been made. And, if budgets depend on Podemos, we'll see how ours will be tax suffocated but they won't have a_euro to be able to help them. They copy what the business world does for itself. A well-known global trading platform announced this week that it will invest €5 million in 2020 in support of the digitalisation of Spanish companies, and of course Catalan SMEs are included here. It is a concise, concrete proposal that requires time, time, money. Because most of our business fabric is made up precisely of SMEs, which in many cases do not have the economic and material means to carry out these digitisation plans. And this is where the government has to live up to the circumstances and help them. It is not a request; it is your obligation to carry it out. And, as Seth Godin says, making promises and keeping them is a great way to build a brand. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.117.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented has the word, on behalf of the Socialists and Unity Group, the deputy Ms.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.118.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor, deputies and deputies. Well, it seems to me that it's been a few years since we've had a technological revolution; it's not that you're about to come up or you've come up, but it's been for years now that you're here, and I think it's hard for us to react. And we don't need a technological revolution just to get more business competitiveness and that our businesses are moving better in a global environment; we also need it to face the challenges we have as humanity: from the environment, food, energy or cybersecurity. Therefore, it is a necessity, it is not something we can decide whether or not to do so, that we can face the technological revolution and that our companies and new companies are in this field. Look, it's been many years since the U.S. made a bet and started public policies in this sense, and that's why there are books that explain it very well – either Google or Apple, and so on, and the iPhone, and so the U.S. is doing business because they are technologically moving forward with their investigation and can generate products like these that I said, very successfully. But a few years ago she's been doing Xina too. The Xina, which was a low-cost country, a cheap copia, a basically agricultural country, has been able to make a brutal revolution, and today its cities are smart cities, entrepreneurs, with ecosystems that would already please us many places to have. They have at these times 206 companies that say "digital unicorns", and at these times they have a value of more than 1,000_million_dollars; it is said, they have made a big pass, with a bet from the State, obviously, but in this case from the State also, to carry out these types of companies that they post for disruptive, complex technologies, which obviously allow them to advance and position themselves in a world as competitive as we have. And you can ask us: well, and that's how it is, right? How did they do that? How did the United States do it, and how did Xina do it and how are other European countries doing it? Because it is true that in the studies on innovation Europe still holds and many European countries are at the forefront of these quests; there is not Spain and there is not Catalonia, because in innovation we always suspend, and we have here a great challenge. But there is no secret – there is no secret –: the state, it is to say, in this case Catalonia, must be able to engage, to collect economically entrepreneurs, innovative ideas that arise from the university, from the technological centers, because somehow they can start their entrepreneurial adventure. We have made here some papers that have accepted us, the four that we have made. We believe that the proposal that Junts had made to us for Catalonia was a modest one: « to continue. No, if we can't keep up, it's that the government has to bet clearly, put resources to actually bet for this type of risky, complex initiatives that seek disruptive technologies, so we can really move forward. If we don't do this, it's very difficult for us to get ahead of ourselves or, as a minimum, to be able to follow the technological career that many countries have started betting on artificial intelligence or other technologies. I don't care what they do. We here have very clear proposals: escort, we have resources, in total we ask for EUR 120_million. The group of the Government, which gives support to the Government, told us: "Well, if it can be, if the presupposition of 2020 allows it. So look, I'm looking at the commons and I'm telling them that, please, in the petitions that you're doing – and we'll do it when you ask – you're putting in the resources for a tech industry, for an industry that you put in for disruptive technologies and that I'm getting the entrepreneur, as Mariana Mazzucate said, to do. If we don't, that'll be very difficult. And when we give 100_million euros we are thinking that a thousand companies are benefiting from this with a hundred_million euros, which allows them to surely set aside a prototype that is being developed at the university or at the technology centres. That would affect a thousand businesses. It's a first impulse. After that, we'd see who's successful; but only 10 per cent is successful, that's a hundred companies. And to these we'll ask them to return us maybe the fete reversal. But that's what it's made up: it's made the United States, it's made Xina, it's made Finland the years before, and it's made Israel, that so many travelers..., that the councillor has gone to this country. Yes, we look very much at Israel; therefore Israel has done such a simple thing as laying down public resources to invade. And that's what we have to do, just this, I have very clear, of course, to direct these resources to the technologies we want, because we really have a more competitive economy, that I don't lose this way and this train that at these times has already passed us through. Honestly, we don't think it's difficult. At the councillor's office, the councillor has the equipment to develop, design projects like this, and what it is to put resources. I'm sure the councillor agrees with me, so we have to ask Vice President Aragonès to put in money, 100_million euros, to put in it. Otherwise, we'll lose this train. And it's a shame, because Catalonia, for a lot of research that you do and a lot of papers that we publish, will follow the path of innovation and business competitiveness. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.119.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, on behalf of the parliamentary group of Esquerra, Mr Orobtig says it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.120.0	Well, thank you very much, Vice President. Actually, a small correction: it's the Republican Group, huh? In this case, the Democrats are also with us. In any case, good morning, lady counselor, deputies, deputies. Well, I'll be allowed a previa, and it's claiming the immediate freedom of Oriol Junqueras, a person who had been classified as a criminal. [[applause]] In this plenary room, which is a good person, an honest politician and a family father, and I think no one deserves that in a Faristol, in a public environment like this [[Funnel veils]] ...,yeah,yeah,nobody deserves to be in a public environment like this one gets it this way. In the same way, therefore, I want to express my solidarity with President Torra, who, as we all know, for those strange astral conjunctions [[applause]] which is only given to the Spanish State, has been condemned the same day that we knew the resolution of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Well, we find ourselves in front of a young man who helps us to become aware of the new need to accelerate the adequacy of our product fabric to a new industrial revolution, 4.0. Well, I think that the inquiry and, in this case, the same answer that the councillor gave to this are quite obvious respect of the pes of the industry in our GDP, more than 20_per_cent. And it must obviously be a cause for concern about the globality of the parliamentary groups represented in this Parliament, so, man, to meet the needs of this fabric of production so that we ultimately do not lose competitiveness, this does not move us to a pittance of the economic results of our industry and of restructuring, also, that does not ultimately affect the occupation linked to this very important area. Some of the interventions we've had seemed like this theme was new, and here this interview, the same young lady, don't listen to a Marian operation, it's not an announcement by a red angel, all this has to do with a very important argumental thread, huh? In the first place, for a resolution of the Parliament in which he set out to sign a national pact for industry and, in this case, for the fact that the government of the moment collected the glove and pulled forward, he promoted this national pact for industry which was made public on July 2017. I also understand that some of the messages contain the little action that has been taken in this area or that there have been few resources. Home, I believe that the national pact precisely provided for these fundamental actions to take place between 2017 and 2020. It is clear that there is a justification for the delay in the adoption of measures, such as the legal application of Article 155, with which all policies, in this case the Department of Enterprise, have been put to rest, which are aimed at achieving all these objectives. If we see the movement in its original writing is anticipated, in relation to the working group 3, industry 4.0 and digitalization, of those that are previewed to the national pact, so it is emphasized in some particular, as they could be mechanisms of impulse to industry 4.0, and in any place they have..., they are basically directed to the activities of diffusion and awareness to the enterprises about the need for digitalization, the technical advice to the peppers and something that was said before, if you did not understand it badly: that the house was built for the roofing, because it was made a campaign of promotion with this plane Proacción 4.0... Home, precisely the Pla for the industry previews these coupons, right? , these coupons that from the website of the department can be accessed, with aid up to fourteen thousand euros per precise, therefore, make these studies, these analytical and diagnosis respect each of the industries that must be subject to revision. Also, the young man was talking about line 3, collaborative work platforms, and there is a lot of emphasis in the field of the automotive industry, which has a very important aspect, obviously, in our product fabric and in its economic results. And so the young lady, who has been rich, as I know from the papers that have been accepted by my partner proposing, in Jordi Munell, so that in the end they enrich her, because what they do is provide resources to make her come true. From our point of view, taking the literal text of the national pact, we understood that there was a lack of one of the pots in this place – which also kept us, because the same adviser did so in her intervention – the impact on the labor market that precisely digitalization had. And in this case, what we've done is promote that it's embedded in the text of the motion, so what's foreseen in the Impact Assessment to Industry 4.0, right? All that makes reference, logically, to the fact that it has an impact on the labour market, the need to set up a committee dealing with this impact and foreseeing its results, because, as we saw yesterday at the control session, it was something that was of concern to many parliamentary groups, the increase in job-regulation dispatches, and one of the very reasons why these dispatches can be given is the impact that digitisation can have on all staff associated with tasks determined from this company, isn't it? We think it's better to warn and therefore we have alerters of these hypothetical problems before they happen, than the subsequent intervention of the Department of Work to look to minimize the impact, don't we? And, therefore, we are grateful that if you accepted the message and, logically, we would vote in favour of the integrity of the text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.121.0	Thank you, Congressman. In order to fix the position, on behalf of the Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the paragraph is Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.122.0	Well, we find ourselves in front of a young lady we understand to be a little placebo, huh? , it is difficult to vote against it, as generic as it is; to « follow them, « we will continue, « we will work, no? So, suppose, a little, made in Junts Government for Catalonia and Republican Left, right? It is a young man that I believe that, basically, what you are looking for is a symbolic response before an increase, I would say, exponentially, of practically 76_percent of the EROs in Catalonia, which affect especially the industrial sector, and, of the past, so we are talking about today enough: the Continental enterprise in Rubí, right? It is clear that the Catalan industry is suffering, that in a global context it has many threats, and it is true that it is not a new phenomenon, it is a phenomenon that we have been repeatedly patenting over the past forty years, in this case, of democracy, where we have lost jobs in the industrial sector. And it's true that despite the government and its words and these decaffeinated motions, I... sometimes, we, from the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Commune, have more sense than the economic model that the government of Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Left has in this case is a government more based on Ryanair, huh? , when they celebrate, so, for example, the reductions in workers' and workers' rights to maintain the base in Girona, or the model of Barcelona World also, with Hard Rock Cafe, in this case, at Camp de Tarragona, or a company based on services and not in the industrial sector, right? And it is also shocking, and we also want to introduce this reflection, that in a context such as that of the 21st century, in full climate emergence, you are making a motion about the need for industrial conversion and adaptation to industry 4.0 in which you do not make reference to the need for a just transition and, in this case, you do not make reference to climate emergence, do you? And I think it's very important that it's about objects, and then my group companion, Lucas Ferro, said: "Shut up clear objects. And the goal the government of the generality should have is to reposition, like at least, huh? , because at the time it had come to say that we wanted to reach 25_per_cent, but, at the very least, to recover the weight of the industrial sector in GDP, it reached at the very least 20_per_cent of our economic sector. And I think we have an instrument, the problem is that the feeling we have – and yesterday it was also a reference, from our parliamentary group, in an inquiry – is that the government does not believe, that it is the National Pact for Industry. And this is a phonetic element. And when it comes to, for example, Industry 4.0, and also some data that, for us, are impressive. It's obvious, and there's a reference now, that they're calling for more resources. But it's that we'd have enough if the resources that are theoretically allocated, like at least, are executed. Why, of course, if it's talking, for example, about execution, in the case of 3D printing, in industry 4.0 strategy, we're just – just, huh? – 0,3_percent of the execution by the Government. Or, in any case, if it's talking, for example, in the case of..., search compliment and innovation in the big data field, the government is at the 0_per_cent execution; in this case, the 0, eh? I insist, the 0_per_cent execution in which is the National Pact for Industry. And then, also, in a phonetic element, which we have now too, which is the ecological transition – which is the phonetic, in this case, also to adapt to the new industrial reptes we have – there is only a 12-percent compliment of the electric vehicle's impulse, for example, or only the 14-percent compliment of energy efficiency. Therefore, the Government has an instrument that should be useful, which is also claimed by social workers, which is the National Pact for Industry, and the issue is that it is not written and, meanwhile, we are making this type, in this case, of generic declarations. Finally, I also want to reflect. I mean, it's obvious that Industry 4.0 is an opportunity and that we need to know how to take advantage of it. But it cannot be an instrument to pre-characterize neither the rights of workers nor, in this case, to maximize environmental impacts, which, in this sense, are also very important in a climate-emergency context. And I want to do, especially, refer, for example, to a company like Amazon that, in this case, could be the paradigm, right? , of industrial model 4.0, and which, obviously, therefore, has very important consequences for what it does, for example, also in detail of workers' rights, right? And I would like to reflect on this feeling, which is true that, in this case, adaptation to industry 4.0 can generate more jobs, but, specifically, in the industrial sector, if it is not a fan, in this case, the debts, can cause loss, according to studies, of twelve thousand jobs in Catalonia. And, in this sense, this is very important, because industry, especially in Catalonia, is certainly one of the sectors that has the most places of work with major, theoretically, disabled, but also with better working conditions. We would do well not to lose it, in short, if we do not want to go after a model of poor workers and workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.123.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is now the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.124.0	President, to speak from the Escó. To explain that we will vote mostly in favour of almost all the points, but obviously we will not vote in favour of point 5, which under the euphemism "tax incentives that we are carrying out is simply that some companies, those that can, or rather" that can, exercise in relation to technology 4.0, therefore have a tax reduction. This is not a criterion for us. I can assume that there are multi-million-dollar companies that have tax benefits and other companies that, for their business, can't do it hard themselves, or have more difficulties, and we don't give them these misnomerous tax incentives, which is actually a tax rebate. I would also point out that we are voting in favour of point 6. But in relation to point 6, we want to make some clarification. It seems very necessary for us to study the impact digitalisation can have on labour relations, but we will never, absolutely ever, assume the premise that technological innovation must mean, or may mean, the destruction of jobs. More. This was a battle that was given in the last century, when there was the first technological revolution, the second technological revolution, and we will never accept it, either, in this one, which is called the third. Because what means "greater efficiency and greater production with fewer resources is to enable a fairer society, a more resourced society, a society, and even more, where we can distribute wealth; it must never be a pretext to say now, with more technology, what will cause certain activities to fail and extinguish workers' and workers' contracts. And, in relation to this, another question that is not raised in the motion but that we think that it is necessary to take a very deep reflection: we need training in public education in technical basic skills, if not, we can have a very small part of society with many technological knowledge, a mass with some technological knowledge, but also an important part of our society that is illiterate from the digital point of view. And from this it has the responsibility, of course, also the Education Department, which has to profile, to make profiles from the point of view also of training in the digital field.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.125.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, to pronounce on the papers, the deputy Jordi Munell has a new turn. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.126.0	Yeah, from the sco, I said it when I intervened. We have negotiated some issues with the PSC and the People's Group, and therefore we are grateful to them. And we'll vote on these issues with these transactions. And we in the Citizens' Group did not accept them, because, as we say, they are proposals that we are already making from the government of the department and, therefore, I had no feeling of accepting something that has already been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.127.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. [[Vidal Aragonese Chicharro asks to speak.]] Say, Mr. Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.128.0	Yes, to ask for a separate vote from point 5 of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.129.0	All right, thank you. Is there no more petition in this sense? [[Pause.]] Say'm, Mrs. Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.130.0	To ask for separate votes from points 1, 3 and 4, which can be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.131.0	All right, thank you. [[Pause.]] We will vote, therefore, first on this first block, with points 1, 3 and 4; then on point 5, and the rest of the motion. Let's vote, then, points 1, 3 and 4. The vote begins. Points 1, 3 and 4 were approved by 95 votes in favour, against and 34 abstentions. And now we're voting point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 117 votes to 12, with no abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved unanimously, 128 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Draft law amending Law 16/2017, August 1, climate change, for taxing carbon dioxide emissions from mechanical traction vehicles]] [[200-00009/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the opinion of the Economic and Historical Commission on the Bill of Amendment Bill 16/2017, August 1, the climate change, for which it does the tax on carbon dioxide emissions from mechanical traction vehicles. In accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, the first word is Mr Lluís Salvadó, who has been appointed rapporteur of the question. [[Pause.]] [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.132.0	Yes; President, a point of order. We would like to know exactly when the rapporteur was appointed, because we do not know that we have appointed the rapporteur for this bill.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.133.0	Excuse me, Congressman, as you will understand, I don't know the previous ones yet and it wasn't part of the pose. I know from the documentation that we have that this is it. Anyway, then, if I want to... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They tell me that it was used what is traditionally used, that is that in fact the majority Member is the rapporteur. Anyway, now we're not stopping the debate, Congressman, we'll give the word to Mr. Saved, and then we'll talk about it. Mr. Salvató, when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.134.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning. Well, it was just three weeks ago that we held this plenary debate to the full of the bill that we are debating again today. And, as you know, from the government there was a request, in accordance with Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament, that the draft law for the urgency procedure can be processed and that, moreover, the reduction to half of the terms fixed with urgency and also agreeing, on the part of the Bureau, for another band, that these terms were improbable. The motto of urgency, as we have shared with the rest of the members of the committee and of the question, is the government's will, which we share from various parliamentary groups, that this tax can begin to deserve this very exercise of 2019. And, with this will, and given that the tax has already been approved in 2017, and that at these moments just what we are doing, proposed by the Secretary of Hisenda of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, is to incorporate some punctual betters into the same tax, parliamentary processing has ended with a rather usual celerity in this Parliament – a little common and certainly recommensurable people in some other circumstances. We have also held two sessions of the Economic and Historical Committee and one session of the Assembly. And, as a matter of urgency, during this process, five items have been incorporated into the text we are proposing today; four, on the joint proposal of the Parliamentary Groups of Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Group, and one item negotiated for these two groups and on the part of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - Unites per Avançar. The documents which we incorporate in the opinion which you have passed have been approved by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy make the following changes to the original draft: firstly, the references to the L6 category vehicles are deleted; secondly, they are light quadricycles; and, by consistency with the rest of the text, it is considered appropriate to delete them, which are not applicable to this tax; secondly, for the other part, it is proposed not to include the definition standard or the exempt vehicles or those which deserve a net share lower than the amount which is appropriate to comply with the text of the Catalan Public Finance Act; that is to say, those shares of the Socialist Party that are deleted from the official document, at the end of the document, at the end of the document, at the end of the document, at the end of the document, at the end of the document, at the end of the document, at the end of the document, at the end of the document, at the end of the document, at the end of the document. In fact, for practical purposes, the exempt vehicles that are already part of the vehicles exempt from the tax on vehicles of mechanical traction are equipped in this transaction... In any case, with this exemption, those vehicles that are not paid for are the vehicles of security and defence vehicles, which are vehicles that are no longer part of the same hundred that are born to the autonomous administrations of the General Directorate of Transit of the State. With these last improvements, and with those improvements that have already been proposed by the Secretary of Hisenda on behalf of the Government to the bill, I can expect this tax to continue with a correct and immediate application already in this very year, exercise 2019. And without prejudice, as various Members have raised, both to the question and to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which is still pending a debate that we will certainly have to develop in a future, not only in Catalonia, but also in the context of the international community, which is to link every time more the taxable facts of this type of tax, of environmental taxes, with the actual emissions of CO2. It is a debate that we share, and that, as it was manifested within the same committee, we jointly place ourselves to be able to develop it in a future. And without further ado, it is logical that some members of the committee and of the committee did not share the urgency with which we have carried out the processing – and it is logical, surely, that this should continue in this way – in any case to thank all the good predisposition and understanding before such an accelerated situation, that I assume that in the background I believe that, to a greater or lesser extent, all the members of the Committee on Economic and Historical Affairs and certainly of this plenary share that we need to take these steps forward and that the Catalonian compromise with which the fight against climate change can be expressed through this tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.135.0	Thank you, Congressman. The parliamentary groups which have reserved positions to defend in this House will then intervene. And it has the word, in the first place, to make it the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, through the deputy Mr Antonio Espinosa. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.136.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, very good morning. Climate change, global warming, greenhouse effect, emissions... all of them are terms that are increasingly used in explaining what is likely to be the main human problem in the medium and long term. After decades of questioning theories about the existence and magnitude of climate change today, and after increasingly serious and tangible consequences, such as sea level rise, coastal floods or the increased frequency of extreme weather events, few doubt the reality and damage of climate change and the need to act from the public authorities to mitigate change and its effects. We all also know that global warming has a decisive influence on the excessive presence of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, especially carbon dioxide or CO2. We all know, therefore, that urgent measures are needed to decarbonise our planet, but from Citizens we continue to maintain that this tax on carbon dioxide emissions is poorly designed, and it is not an effective or adequate measure to reduce CO2 emissions and therefore combat climate change. It is not, Members of this House, because we are facing a false CO2 tax: a real CO2 tax would apply to the fuels consumed, and each fuel would have associated a tax that would be proportional to the CO2 emitted in its combustion. If at least this is not the case, account should be taken of the kilometres actually achieved by each vehicle. Well, not one thing or another appears in this bill. A real CO2 tax, which aims to reduce emissions to the atmosphere, would make pollutants pay in proportion to their emissions, or a real CO2 tax would meet the environmental maximum and with the European Union's doctrinal principle of the polluter pays. However, with this tax will no longer pay who uses the most fuel, and therefore more CO2 emits when burning it. Interestingly, it will pay the same to the owner of a vehicle that consumes 100 liters of fuel as another that consumes 50 liters. You will pay as much as you travel one thousand kilometres a year as you do thirty-five thousand kilometres. How is this nonsense possible? Because by means of this tax, which they want approved, we are going to pay according to the theoretical or official emissions of CO2 covered by the vehicle specification. But the curious thing is that there is already, and we pay, a special tax on certain means of transport that applies the tax rates according to the official emissions of CO2. But they don't seem to have enough. They want another one. And why? You will be asked, the citizens will be asked. The answer is very simple: while the first one is paid once on the occasion of the first definitive registration in Spain of new or used vehicles, this – this new – what we are going to do is have what to pay each year, one year after another, eh? And that, of course, is a good business for the government and a bad business for Catalans. The government and its partners in this Parliament – because without partners it could not get ahead – want to give cat for hare to the Catalans, and they have called it ‘tax on carbon dioxide emissions, but they are not going to record emissions at all, and therefore they are not going to decrease CO2 emissions either. The purpose of this tax is primarily to increase the tax burden, and they establish it more for financial and collection issues than for environmental issues. It is no coincidence that Catalonia, which is the autonomous community with the most public debt per capita in Spain, is also the one with the most environmental fiscal pressure. Think about it: it's not a coincidence. With this tax, all they are going to get is that Catalan families, who are only responsible for about 21_percent of greenhouse gas emissions, pay – careful – 60_percent of what is collected by green taxes. They contribute a 21 and pay for a 60, Catalan families; take note. With this tax, the current and absolute lack of correlation between the taxpayers and the polluters is further out of balance. In a real CO2 tax, unlike in the latter, exemptions and cases of non-subjection should be minimal and always fully justified. The non-subjection to the vehicle tax of more than 3.5 tonnes of maximum weight, i.e. medium and heavy vehicles, is not minimally justified: do these vehicles not emit more carbon dioxide, and therefore pollute more, than a family vehicle? Why won't they pay anything? From Citizens, we understand that the tax would have taken into account effects on business competitiveness, but if that is the reason, why has not vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes used by self-employed people in their businesses been treated equally? There is no answer: there is collection through. Nothing more. Another drawback of this tax is related to its scope, which, since it is limited exclusively to Catalonia, logically, poses difficulties and involves, let us say, objective difficulties. On the one hand, it supposes that it is impossible to subject to this tax those vehicles of foreigners, or of Spaniards who travel through Catalonia, and who naturally contribute, eh? – contribute – to pollution but will not contribute to the tax. And, on the other hand, this tax, in turn, has an effect, or produces, or has an incentive to relocate. We cannot forget what it will cause, this tax – because the companies themselves have already announced it – that the fleet managers of vehicles will choose to register and census their vehicles in other autonomous communities, in order to avoid the payment of this tax. Look, the creation of this tax is not associated with comprehensive environmental plans, nor with the achievement of emission reduction targets, nor have mechanisms been established to measure its effects, mechanisms for analysis of results, so there will be – and there is – no way to assess and review the results. With this tax, what incentives does the owner of a vehicle have to correct habits and behaviours that harm the environment? What incentives do you have to stop using if, whether you use it more or less, or simply don't use anything, you pay exactly the same? What incentives will it have to adopt cleaner and cleaner technologies? Simply, you won't have a single one of those incentives. However, there is currently no real alternative to public transport to dispense with private vehicles. But, if there is, why will the taxpayer who knows he will pay the same tax if he uses his car as if he is using public transport? Nor do citizens have a real alternative to replace their polluting vehicle with an electric one: it does not exist, and we will see how many resources are allocated by this tax to make that possible, to make that alternative real. Therefore, we find that we are going to be forced to have a polluting car – we are, in fact, or we are obliged to have a polluting car – and now it turns out that to pay for it at the time of registration and, with this tax, also now more every year. If we didn't pay enough at the time of enrollment, we will now pay more each year. This is beyond doubt, because citizens will not pay for what they pollute, but for having a car, and the vast majority have no real alternative to having a clean vehicle. It is very important to stress that this tax does not comply with the most minimal and elementary principles of progressiveness and equity, which I believe are payable to any tax, which is also payable as, precisely, the principle shown in the Statute and in the Constitution itself: the progressiveness of taxes. Because it will turn out that the oldest cars, and therefore the most polluting, are of the people with the lowest incomes. And these will be the ones that will pay the most, being also the ones that have the least chance of changing the car. We are therefore faced with a tax that is not really progressive, it is regressive: a regressive tax. In this intervention I am obliged to refer to the democratic scam that has involved the urgent handling of the bill. From the very beginning, the parliamentary groups supporting the Government, as well as those in Catalonia in Comú Puem and the UPC, showed their null will for democratic deliberation, preventing not one of the experts proposed by the parliamentary groups from expressing their opinion in paper. These parliamentary groups have delivered the paper at a single meeting and, in addition, at two meetings of the committee. Well, together – jointly – at the three meetings, it has not exceeded thirty_minutes. One thing is urgency and another is precisely what they have done. This is unacceptable from a democratic point of view. However, despite the knowledge that the Government and its partners were going to apply the roller and were not going to take any of the amendments into account, we citizens put forward some of them. Some, in the direction of allocating most of the collection to the climate fund, to have precisely more resources to promote sustainable mobility, research and innovation in the climate field, or the protection of the population from the increased risk of extreme weather events. We want a lot more resources spent on this, huh? and, therefore, we made this proposal, which, of course, has been ignored. We are putting forward other amendments in the direction of not leaving out the tax on precisely more polluting vehicles, as I have already said. And, on the contrary, in another amendment, what we proposed was precisely to exempt vehicles that had not travelled five hundred miles a year. It's just, basically, that's nothing. Recording a vehicle that doesn't perform five hundred miles a year is really a barbarity, considering that it will have to pay the same as one that performs 35,000. We, at least, wanted a bit of fiscal justice by introducing this amendment. I ended up summarizing the position of the Citizens' Group. We are going to vote against this tax because we are facing a false CO2 tax with which the government and its partners want to take our hair and money, and they want to increase the fiscal pressure at a time... – and take this into account, Mr Vice-President of the government – they want to do this, they want to increase that fiscal pressure at a time when the Catalan economy is slowing down. And it is essential that domestic demand favours the economy. In other words, it is essential that Catalans have money in their pockets. Therefore, gentlemen of the government and partners, stop creating a new tax, which Catalonia is already the autonomous community with more own taxes, and therefore stop putting your hand in the pocket of Catalans with more ineffective taxes like this. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.137.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Before that, Mr Rodriguez, I asked for the documentation of the question, and there is a signed document, as in the record of the same question, for all the parliamentary groups in which Mr Lluís Salvadó is appointed as rapporteur, signed for all parliamentary groups, including his group; concretely you too, Mr Rodriguez. Then I'll get him there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.138.0	Yeah. With regard to this question, with a view to my intervention, President, I would like to point out that Parliament's Official Butllet 491 of 12 December, which reduces the rapporteur's nomination and nomination, does not speak in the case of the rapporteur's nomination, basically – basically – because he did not appoint the rapporteur; basically because he did not appoint the rapporteur, Mr Cid. And you, I don't know if there was, at the time, but you didn't appoint the rapporteur. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, You can say what you want, but don't... don't worry, from now on, I won't sign a document without reading all the papers, everything from the document... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, man, no. But I look at the official Butllet of the Parliament which was expressly edited for this law on the 12th; it does not contain the rapporteur's name because the rapporteur was not appointed as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.139.0	Deputy. It's clear what his position is. Anyway...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.140.0	All right. So, it's got a lot to do with our position. This has been the way of this law and this has been the characteristic of this law: "To correct – to correct –, we are spativating, that we are late; we want to collect 2019 as it is and we have to espavilize to correct, right? It's the quickest bill in Parliament's history, surely; I don't have it accounted for, but, go on, I'm not gonna be wrong. We did the whole debate on November 27th, today we do the final debate, the 19th of December, no appearance, no one. Cap, zero appearances. And he will say: "Well, this is the third modification of this law. Certainly, this is the third amendment of this law, because this tax was created with Law 5/2017, which was tax, administrative and tax measures that accompanied the assumptions of 2017, effectively. It was a law of 239 articles, which created five taxes on us – five taxes on us – one of which was the emission tax. Yeah, that's right. Do you know how many appearances there were to talk about this tax? Zero. Do you know how many appearances there were to process that law? Zero. Magnificent debate, magnificent debate about this tax. But then they will say to me: 'Listen to me, then this tax was changed in the Climate Change Law. It is true, in Law 16/2017, in July, that a complete change in the tax that had been approved in March was included in the Climate Change Law, which in fact led to our abstention from the Climate Change Law. So it's true. In that law there were thirty-six appearances, thirty-six. Do you know how many relationships in this tax? Zero. Do you know how many of the entities that different parliamentary groups have asked us to compare to talk about this tax on this bill? Zero. This is the debate that you came up with regarding this tax. I've said it a few times before, to you upsets. That's why they create and push assemblies of elites where they have no objection and they can say and do what they want, because you're bothering the debate. And this is another example. Listen, the rapporteur, who was not appointed, his job, in today's debate, is to explain the work of the ponència. He's been explaining the work of the pose more than the time that lasted the same pose. That's it. Pim-pam. He said: "Two economic commissions have been set up. Home, of course, it would only be necessary that two economic commissions were not made: the first, to name the ponència, and, the second, after the ponència, to approve the report of the ponència. Five minutes and five minutes. And that's all the debate he's had about this tax and this law. So, escort, we, this way of working, obviously you can understand that we do not share it, especially with a tax that affects, one, the whole city; two, a very important economic sector for the Catalan economy, which is the automotive sector, which represents a 10_per_cent of GDP and gives work to more than 150,000 workers. Listen, it's a law that has a major impact on the jointness of the citizenry and on the economy of a particular economic sector. And, entering the content of the tax and the bill, they are keeping absolutely all the disagreements that we want to express in the debate of totality: there is no connection between the subject matter and the vehicles that contaminate, it is to say, who will pay it is not pollute, who will pay it is who has a vehicle domiciled in Catalonia, not who pollutes, because you can have a vehicle domiciled in València, travel all day to Barcelona and not pay, or you can have a vehicle registered in Catalonia and travel all day for valència and pay. And this you know is a reality: there is no connection between who pays and who pollutes, it is not there. In the end, the emission of contaminating gases does not depend on having the property of a vehicle, but on the use of the vehicle; they do not depend on having the property, but on the kilometres that are made with the vehicle. You can keep a vehicle five hundred miles a year or another one thirty thousand miles a year. Obviously, the one that pollutes the most will be the one thirty-thousand in the year. So they'll pay the same as thirty-thousand a year ago as the five hundred. Listen, this isn't equity. From the fiscal point of view. I won't mention it again, because I think this week you guys gave me the reason, didn't you? In the last plenary, I said to them: "We are leaders in almost all and more than ever when you, the government, with Podemos, agreed on fiscal reform... – and I suppose it will then be with the support of the Socialist Party –, "agreed on fiscal reform. They've already told us this week that they want to be leaders in absolutely all taxes. And that will have consequences, no doubt. And I set them the example: displacement of waves. It's clear. If having vehicles registered in Catalonia supposes to pay a tax that having them registered in another address is not paid, they will be domiciled in another address but will circulate exactly the same to Catalonia, contaminating exactly the same. And that, I insist on one more time, it's neither fair nor fair. The other problem arises from the determination of which are the CO2 emissions of certain vehicles, the motorcycles concretely. And, for that, they have to make a theoretical calculation, because, in the end, what matters is not that it is paid for which it is contaminated. In the end, what matters to you is that it is paid; then, whether it is contaminated or not, this is the least. You, the ones they care about are the ones who pay. I've already explained to them that it was a reverse progressive tax: they contaminate the most ancient vehicles, that they are the ones that keep those people who have the most difficulty in acquiring vehicles from us and that they are, therefore, the ones that have the lowest; the cities that have the lowest, and, therefore, the oldest vehicles, will be the ones that will pay the most for this tax. I already know that's a lot of the line we can, right? But, escort, we don't share it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Listen, it's not a dialect, is it? Come on. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] When he gets back, you explain it and he's gone. And we also say: "School, this tax also discriminates in rural areas. Yeah, that's clear. It discriminates against what we say, doesn't it? I don't know what, I don't know how many. Well, yeah, boom, a tax. As if you have the same public transport alternatives that we have around the metropolity. It's just, escort, it's not the same. I mean, it's not the same living in a village – now I see Mr Rivas – from the Aran Valley, where, to go to the doctor, you have to take the car, live in the metropolitan area, where you can take the bus. It's not the same! Then we are punishing the inhabitants of rural areas. And therefore, I insist, we cannot agree with this imposition. Were there alternatives? Yeah. There are alternatives. There's an alternative to working on the mechanical traction vehicle tax, which is a municipal tax. They already know that they can have difficulties and complexities. We agree, but it could be a formula. Another, the oil tax, much fairer. They're already picking up a raid. And yes, the regulatory capacity, relatively, is from the State and should be negotiated with the State because the top of the communities is already at maximum. You'd have to negotiate. Yeah, it's more work, sure, but it's another possibility. You're flying a third? The enrollment tax. What? Funny, Mr. Spiny said that too, didn't he? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The enrollment tax is determined by, ah! CO2 emissions from vehicles. Man, if it's the same thing that we're doing here, the only one who, in terms of paying one time alone, now more than paying every year. But if it's the same. Ah, listen, if the generality even has the capacity to regulate the registration fee. Did they forget? The Generality has normative capacity; in fact, it has exercised it in certain types of vehicles, to situate us – not to change, eh? - in the topall, huh? Like leaders, one more time. And, on the other hand, he didn't exercise it in other types of vehicles, which they're paying for now, too. But it's a shared management tax with its own regulatory capacity, and it hasn't been used. I'm done. We have submitted papers, with little faith, to say, but with the intention of trying to fix it a little. We've submitted papers to exclosure certain types of vehicles from the warehouse: they're the quadricycles. Basically, because they are vehicles that are used in a much more intense way in rural areas and they are vehicles that do not normally circulate. Go on, I'm not used to going around the streets of the metropolis and seeing quadricycles circulating. But they are vehicles that do have a lot of use in rural areas. Therefore, we said: "Listen, therefore, let us expel these vehicles from here. You haven't presented one in a sense that looks like you're just presenting light quadricycles. Well, it's already an advance; not enough for us. We also asked to expel our vehicles, because, man, since a city makes the effort to change an ancient vehicle, which pollutes more, by a new vehicle, which pollutes less, well, listen to me, we benefit them; listen to me, we benefit this vehicle change and so we also work in favor of the industry. No, no, you guys, too, pay from day one. [[Pause.]] I lost the full... oh yes! We're also excloeming – a thought of ours, huh? – municipalities with public transport deficiencies; in municipalities there is no alternative public transport, so as not to harm unpopulated areas, so as not to harm rural areas. They didn't want to hear from us either. One thing that we consider important and that has surely gone unnoticed: that the tax is personally notified to the contributor. It is that the law says that this is not to be done; the law says that it will be published to the standard and that this is considered notification. But what helplessness... with what helplessness leave the city! There will be many citizens who will know that they are included in this standard when they receive the notification that they should have paid the tax, they have not done so and will return it with regret: "It was published in the Official Gazette of the Generality of the day I don't know what. Listen to me, this leaves the citizenry helpless. What less, what less to communicate to the citizenry, like at least the first year, that has been incorporated into the pattern of this tax so that we know that they have to pay and not because it is published in the Official Gazette of the Generality, because I do not see what people's kiosks buying the Official Gazette of the Generality to know whether they have to pay a tax or not. And another point that we asked is, listen to me, I'm not in such a hurry to approve it now, let's approve it calmly, let's rethink some aspects and come into force the year you see, if you want. No, no, You are in a hurry not to reduce emissions, to collect – to collect. And that's why they handled it this way. Finally, in relation to the papers that Ciutadans has presented, I really don't..., with all the "kindness that I have them, I just didn't hear well how the speeches that you make here to the Faristol with what you then present as papers. That's to say, it's clear: either they're social-democratic or they're liberal, but the two things now can't be. I mean, there's no way to make a speech criticizing the tax, I feel liberal, I don't know what, and then, to submit some papers to add to the tax that vans and transport trucks pay. What are we staying at? Is the tax unfair, yes or no? So if it's unfair, it doesn't add any more vehicles to me. Even though they haven't laid the buses! But, of course, he doesn't give us the speech you're making with the papers you're presenting after. They will therefore understand that these points which have been put to us by us have been voted against. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.141.0	Thank you, Congressman. The parliamentary groups will now intervene to determine their position. And in the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Jordi Terrades. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.142.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, Miri, with this tax we are talking about reducing emissions, mitigating the climate change, also of air quality. We will give support to this measure not because the solution adopted by us has just convinced us, but because we can begin to pose..., going from the politically correct speech, as it is sometimes done, to taking some kind of measure. This is a tax that is valid for the Constitutional Court. In fact, the Constitutional Court was able to validate the three types of tax on vehicles: registration, circulation and now, right? I have listened to some speeches..., « we pose in question the automotive industry of Catalonia. Do you know what the country of the European Union that collects more taxes on the vehicle is? Germania. Has anyone doubted that the car industry in Germany is in danger because it is the country of the European Union that collects the most taxation on vehicles? No, no, The second is France. Spanish is the fifth. In every way, we must criticise the press... we have done so in this work that has worked intensively, with the words of the chairman of the committee, respecting the method that has been used. The government's presses are not good, they have not allowed a debate in depth. In fact, he didn't allow the debate around this tax. One, who already has a certain parliamentary experience in this Parliament, had never seen an application of the parliamentary corrode as rough as was done in this bill. We thought it was necessary to make a more serene debate. Probably, the government had to have introduced this bill more time to discuss all the issues surrounding taxation, didn't it? We, who are in favour of recording emissions of greenhouse gases from vehicles, have not just been... – we have already expressed this in the conversations we have had – in the measure as adopted, have we not? Because the measurement does not ensure, from our point of view, the reduction of emissions. We do not discuss that it will have recaptatory effects, which will help to increase the presuppositional parties that the government will target for climate policies. And listen, welcome continue, because at these times in the presupposition that is in force, in 2017, only a 1,6_per_cent of the conjunction of the presuppositional parties is destined for effective climate change policies. If we detract those who are engaged in public transport, we do not arrive at 0.5_per_cent. Therefore, welcome to continue. Now, the structure of the tax does not charge which pollutes the most, which emits the most. And I'll give you an example: an old vehicle with an index of two-hundred_grams of CO2 per kilometre, which makes seven_thousand_quilometres per kilometre, generates 1,400 kilos of CO2 per kilometre; a new vehicle, which emits less emissions, one hundred_thousand_grams per kilometre, which makes twenty_thousand_quilometres, generates emissions of 2,800 kilos. Double the emissions! And listen, it's gonna pay less, huh? , with the structure of the tax we have at these times. The one who issues more issues will pay less than the one who owns an old vehicle. We believe that it would be more appropriate to record total annual emissions regardless of emission indexes per kilometre. I've already announced them – I've also announced it to Mr. Saved – that we, if there's any assumption from the Generality, if there's any tax and financing law, will submit a statement to this law, a modification of this law just to be able to record the emissions in the sense that we've explained to them. We presented a proposal, which has been accepted, which was to remove the exemptions from public administration vehicles. The first ones we have to set an example are the public administrations and, therefore, we made this proposal, which has been accepted and introduced into the law.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.143.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mr David Cid. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.144.0	Well, climate emergency. And I want to stress the word 'emergency', because I have the feeling – and I also said it in the initial debate to the totality about this tax – that there are very politically correct speeches that talk about climate change, but when we go in to take concrete action, there, all problems begin. And that's what happens to us, in fact, with this debate and this tax debate. Mirin, Catalonia has already increased its temperature by 1.6 degrees compared to the year 1950, and we need to reduce our CO2 emissions as a minimum of an annual 8_per_cent if we want to prevent 2030 from rising to an even greater degree. Therefore, I believe that it is time, of course, to take action, and appropriate measures. And I also want to make another reflection: only – only – in Barcelona, more than four hundred people die in the year as a consequence of the contamination. And the Barcelona Public Health Agency says that the most responsible for contamination in Barcelona is transit, in this case, and private transit. Therefore, it is obvious that we are faced with a difficult problem for what it does to the climate emergency; it is a difficult problem for what it does to contamination, and it is a difficult problem also of salvation. And, look, I don't think it bothers them at the end to talk about this tax; it bothers them to talk about the climate change. And in the end, in the background, you wanted to use the modification of this tax to adapt it and to be able, in this case, to recapitulate on the part of the Generality, as a second time on the debate of the Climate Change Law. And in any case, we can have all the debate that they want, I will not be the one to defend the terms that have been used, in this case, by the majority of the Government – and make reference, in this case, to Mr Terrades – which surely made it more reasonable for the Government to present this tax with more time. But the background debate is not this; the background debate is whether we agree or not to record CO2 emissions from mechanical traction vehicles. And, look, what they tell us about... it's not true that with this polluter-pays tax. I just want to remember a given, which is 50_percent of the Catalan population or has no car or has no book, that is, 50_percent of the Catalan population that pays for the consequences of the contamination, that pays for the health consequences and that also pays for the consequences of the climate emergency does not contaminate, sure, because it does not have or car or has no book. Therefore, we can discuss whether they want to talk about the progressive nature of the tax, but we do not refer only, in any case, to who uses or does not use private transport, but, in this case, who uses other means of transport, which I believe is also worth putting on the table. And, look, this imposition that he does once and for all is to start deploying the Climate Change Law. We have said this repeatedly: Catalonia has lost a decade in the fight against climate change, and it is just now, obviously, because of the citizen pressure – in this case, for the mobilizations that have taken place – that in the past time, the Catalan Government has decided to take a step forward. There is still much work to be done, but in the first place, developing the Climate Change Law; in the second place, by fi, developing a decree on renewable energies, and, ultimately, also in the third place, deploying this tax. And what we need is to go from rhetoric, in this case, to fact, and that's what we're complaining about. And I want to remind you that CO2 emissions, 31_per_cent correspond to the industrial sector, but basically 28_per_cent of CO2 emissions in Catalonia correspond, in this case, to the transport sector. And, therefore, it is important to start generating resources, which is what we are demanding, because 50_per_cent is moving in the climate field, to try to fight with concrete measures against climate emergence, and 50_per_cent is remaining, at the natural heritage level, that we are already seeing the impacts of climate change, in this case, for example, also in biodiversity. Therefore, we believe that we are ahead of a first step. As you also know, the result of the agreement reached, in this case, by the Government of Catalonia with Comú Podem, there is a commitment to develop this year 2020 the rest of the two environmental taxes of the Climate Change Law. We want to do it and it has to be done, obviously, by law project, so it won't be in the measuring law. But, in any case, I think that what's going on now, today, is to approve this tax and, secondly, to put us to work for the emissions, basically, of large ships and digs at the level of the ports, and especially the port of Barcelona, and, secondly, also – and we know that it will be a complex tax – on the contaminating enterprises. That's what we have to do. And, ultimately, develop the Climate Change Law, because the Generality has the resources to develop renewable energy, energy efficiency and, ultimately, also to fight effectively against climate emergence. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.145.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the paragraph of the MP Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.146.0	Good morning again. Well, Mr Cid, I've been asked quite a few questions linked to the compliment of the agreements, for example, and to the taxation, and also with reference to the inquiry I made, I imagine, especially to Ciutadans and the PP, to this mark or to this holder who made: « one second on the debate of the Climate Change Law. We do not share the reasons that these two groups share, but the feeling of our vote in relation to this change in law will not be positive. And we do precisely that, to denote this question, that it is not a headline: Citizens and the PP, that is, the right, does not want this tax. We want to mark our position through a abstention because, already we told them in their moment – with the very rapid processing, which we have not shown against, it has been impossible to generate a debate –, it is not the impost that we have thought about. In fact, it is a tax that does not include any elements of the CUP in the previous legislature in relation to the Climate Change Law. It's a tax that's not progressive, that's not a tax because those that most contaminate pay more, but it's a tax on the vehicle. Let's say the things for his name. And, therefore, we do not want to use the pollution excuse to generate a tax or some headlines or to say that this government generates a green tax... We do not agree, we do not agree that this measure is actually used to reduce CO2 emissions. Tanmateix, we won't vote against it either. We do believe that it can be a step, that it is a situation... well, that it is a proposal that we would not be against, because our vote is not decisive either. And, linked to this point we said that in the previous parliamentary term the CUP - Constituent Creed proposed, we also want to mark our abstention to put on the table the breach of accords. And with this we also ask the Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, now that they make agreements and that they remain calendars and commitments. I have before me a document entitled "Agreement between Junts per el Si and the CUP - Crya Constituent on environmental taxation, in the framework of the approval of the Climate Change Law, an agreement that is committed, first, "to creating a mixed working group to develop in detail the two taxes. Who? The one with the ships and the one with the contaminant vehicles. I agree incomplete. According: "A joint work schedule will be established. I agree incomplete. « A proposal for a joint law will be presented. Let's hope you have better luck than we do in fulfilling this agreement. And they will say to me: "Clearly, the legislature has fallen. But the deal was already looking at it. It looked literally: "This agreement will be in effect and will fall this legislature and will have to be assumed by the incoming government in case this is formed for Junts for the Yes or for one of the two major groups forming the current PDECAT and Esquerra Republican coalition. I agree incomplete. We give them all the "kindness and solidarity," David, no... we give it to us in the sense that when we plant a headline or a tax application for what it does to the green tax, and now that we're debating and approving its realization..., it's changed a lot, hasn't it? The concrete considerations to which I refer, 752 and 753, which we have presented on this tax... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I see that the vice president is not interested in the CUP's opinion on this issue, although it was compromised that it would generate a working group to develop it. Well, so these two things don't work out like that, and that's why we won't. In short, it's not a CO2 tax, it's a private vehicle tax. And, I insist, contamination is an excuse. We believe that it is especially important not to punish the popular classes, that they also have a responsibility for contamination, but to place the big corporations, the big companies, that generate an impressive environmental impact. This is why we believe that it was essential and that it is essential and priority to develop taxes for the nitrogen dioxide emissions of large ships in the port of Barcelona, and that they reduce courageous and urgent measures, such as the moratorium on incinerators, and also face up to the power with which cementers and incinerators act, not only on this institution, but also on municipal institutions, such as the Barcelona Assembly. Barcelona is the city, for example, most punished for the contamination of creatures, and on this we do not do so. Therefore, we consider, with this abstention, that it is an abstention to denounce that the agreements with the former Government have not been completed; a abstention because we believe that it is not an imposition that responds to the logic with which it was presented, and thirdly, it is an imposition that is not a priority to combat climate change. For all this the CUP - Call Constituent we will abstain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.147.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mrs Teresa Pallarès has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.148.0	Thank you very much. Thank you, President. Actually, I'd like to know my words today, and I don't know whether to express grace or apology. In any case, I won't tell you, and I prefer to name the members of the police, who, even though there's been a job, let's just say, a lot of haste and we have to summon a little as we could, the people have completed and have also been able to express what they thought, as they have done now publicly in this chamber. I speak, therefore, of Mr Terrades, of the PSC; of Mr Espinosa, of Ciutadans; of Mr Natalia Sánchez; of Mr David Cid, of Catalonia in Comú Pom; of Mr Rodríguez, of the People's Party, and in particular the rapporteur, Mr Lluís Salvadó, of the Republican Parliamentary Group, who, as you know, joined the parliamentary group and all the groups signed the document accepting that he was the rapporteur. That said, despite the processing, which we have explained in this Chamber, I believe and reiterate that we have found space to meet the terms that the Government had requested of us. I regret that, because of the circumstances that we are living here today, in this Chamber, we are not accompanied by the Vice-President or Councillor Calvet; I am very sorry, because it is an exceptional situation. But the concerns that have emerged in this debate have made it clear that there are fears that we need to discuss again – Mr. Terrades has said very well – and that we will have to put them up to the table and we will have to pick them up again, because they have a lot of logic, a lot of logic that we are going through, and that we will certainly have to keep them working, more understand that even a few places have been imposed on this line, and I am very convinced that technologies are going to make it much easier for us to carry out this type of emissions, in some cases the contaminant emissions or, in some other cases, the CO2 emissions, as they are today. As I said, there are few references. We have some references to Nordic countries or Germany, as Mr. Terrades also said, but normally they do not have the same configuration as we intended in this tax. Therefore, it is difficult for us to establish parallels. It was also exposed, and it was said, that all the processing and all the voting that took place around the Climate Change Law... here was already an agreement of the political parties, of all the groups, except for the PP's abstention. And at that moment, these taxes are already collected. Even more: this one we are dealing with today, on CO2 emissions, had already been approved for Law 5/2017, March 28. What was done with the Climate Change Law is to collect this and add to it the economic activities that generate CO2 and the tax on large ships' harbour emissions, which, as has also been said from the CUP Subgroup, are about to develop and there is a firm commitment from this government to work in this line. So, we started doing our dues out of responsibility, but I think it's also from the conviction. We have all commented these last days on the report of the World Meteorological Organization. Let's talk about there being conclusions that 2019 will be one of the warmest years in the warmest era. We need to get down, we need to start talking about these emissions that produce a scalding, too, of sea water, that absorb a 20_percent of this carbon dioxide and produce that the water is more acidic, that there is an impact on ecosystems. It's up to us to work, it's up to us to go on this line. We don't have another line, we have to work on this line. Says a Chinese proverb that a journey can be very long, but it always starts with a simple step; today I think this step is very firm. And it has also been explained that the forecast is that it can be invested in this first estimate, of some 40_million euros, to the Climate Change Fund, and the other 50_percent to the Natural Environment and Biodiversity Fund. Therefore, we must work, in line with what environmental policies at European level also mark us, with which we are also aligned, with the judicial policy of this Europe which today has given us good news and which has later contrasted the Spanish justice exposing the disqualification of our President. So I'm very sorry about this situation. [[applause]] On a day when we started in this Parliament a very serious debate on how to deal with the future of the Climate Change Law. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.149.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Mr Lluís Salvado.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.150.0	Thank you again, President. Well, anyway, I think it's been pretty clear. Before I wanted to make the acclaim to Mr Rodriguez, because it seemed to me that I was acting with the rapporteur; now, as the spokesman of my group, I simply insist on it again: a document bearing as the title« Nomenament of the rapporteur of the ponència, 13 September 2019, signed, among other people, for a certain Santi Rodríguez and Serra. Well, in any case, three weeks ago... Well, first of all, I greet the secretary of Hisenda and the director general of Tributes, who before I forgot – an unforgivable oblivion. Three weeks ago I started my parliament, like other companies, making reference to Councillor Rull as the person who pushed the Climate Change Law, and also in fulfillment of this tax, and today, unfortunately, we also have to make reference to Vice President Junqueras; do so for various reasons. In the first place, because as the Economic Adviser he obviously repeatedly explained his commitment to environmental taxes, and also from this tax that we hope today we can end up approving. And, of course, today too, I would like to refer to Vice-President Junqueras because today justice, justice in capitals, the one that some fear, is beginning to arrive, which is the one that does not use its mechanisms as a repression of political dissent, but respects the rights of voters, respects the rights of elected people. And, obviously, before anyone has referred to this position, this ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union, will have no consequences. Obviously, it was a bad time, because it is to hear that the Spanish courts and that the Spanish Government would act accordingly and apply, as the President of the European Parliament asked a few moments ago, the judgments of the European courts. [[Greetings.]] And so, in short, we will have Vice-President Junqueras at his place, where he must be, as a Member of the European Parliament, and President Puigdemont and Councillor Comín, also as a Member of the European Parliament, which is where he must be, and not in exile or in prison. In any case, someone said that we were ahead of the tax that was processed faster, and it's radically false. Since 2016, the 2016 generation, on behalf of the government, has approved this tax, until today, a processing... 16, 17, 18, 19, various, four years of processing, in which it has been discussed and discussed its content at length. Unfortunately, in four years no alternative or proposed table has been set. At the last minute some try to make proposals. Four years, alternative, proposed. It is good that we consider ourselves and that in the future we can incorporate ourselves and we can make better taxes, environmental taxes, which must obviously be in an evolution and in a continuous improvement. We also refer to some of the things that we have already opened up to the committee, and they have also come up at this point in the table: at European level there have been traffic taxes linked to environmental issues and that burn vehicles for theoretical emissions of CO2; – there have been traffic taxes; cap, cap, cap, cap incorporates the mileage, nor one. Therefore, all these reflections that have been made, which are certainly very opportune, are now impossible to apply, because if they were possible to apply, there are countries that have experience in the tax field, in the environmental tax field, not in the case of the Spanish State, which would surely be doing so. In any case, let us clearly recognize it, overtly, we do not cheat on the lonely: today, what you propose, is impossible to apply to Catalonia and to any other state of the European Union. And anyway, I'm also referring to... Listen, we're two years old that the tax should have been applied, and that the Spanish State has stopped. And we're carrying a lot of years that we haven't had a hundred vehicles, and finally [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , the General Directorate of Traffic of the Spanish State has brought us hundreds of vehicles; surely, it is the reason that today we are – surely – with many emergencies, but that, in short, today I think we can celebrate that after four years, the Government of Catalonia will be able to start implementing this tax and can start...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.151.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.152.0	... to allocate tickets to measures against climate change. Many thanks [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.153.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.154.0	It's for contradictions with Mr. Saved.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.155.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.156.0	Yeah, because he basically said that we said that this was the fastest tax in history, and it's fake. We said it was the fastest law project in history. This is absolutely undeniable. But I'm taking advantage of a point of order right now, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.157.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.158.0	Mr. Saved cited a document dated December 13, which is actually the date on which the complaint was made. We would like to know for what reason the Official Butllet of the Parliament, in which the report of the ponència is published, is from the 12th and, therefore, from the day before the celebration of the ponència. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.159.0	All right. Stay down and we'll answer you when we can prove it. Thank you. [[Antonio Espinosa Cerrato asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Spiny.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.160.0	Yes, Mr. President, I'd like to ask you the..., for contradictions. Mr Santi Rodríguez, you and I are against this tax, but there is no contradiction in being a progressive liberal party and pursuing social justice as well as fiscal justice and fiscal equity. Nothing more. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.161.0	Thank you. Let's get to the vote. First of all, we will vote on the reserved items of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. In response to the separate request for a vote made by the parliamentary groups, we vote in the first place on the issues 1, 3 and 5 – 1, 3 and 5 – of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. These items were rejected by 38 votes to 82, with no abstentions. We now vote on the reserved statements of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, 2, 4, 4 bis, 6 and 7. The vote begins. These items were rejected by 34 votes to 86, with no abstentions. And now we vote on the reserved items of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, and in the first place we vote on items 1, 4 and 7. The vote begins. These items have been rejected by 5 votes in favour, 115 against and no abstentions. And now we're voting on the 2, 3, 5, 8 and 9. The vote begins. These items were rejected by 38 votes to 82, with no abstentions. And now we are voting on the remaining items of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. The remainder of the parliamentary sub-group's views of the People's Party of Catalonia have been rejected by 4 votes in favour, 82 against and 34 abstentions. And now we vote on the rest of the opinion. The vote begins. The opinion on the Draft Law amending Law 16/2017_de_l'1 d'agost, of climate change, for which it does the tax on carbon dioxide emissions from vehicles of mechanical traction has been approved by 77 votes in favour, 39 against and 4 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] There's no more fear of the order of the day for this morning. The session is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.162.0	Well, deputies, deputies, let's resume the session. The next point of the order of the day, the last point, is the motion following the question to the Government about the situation of the health system, formulated... [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.163.0	On a point of order, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.164.0	Say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.165.0	In relation to this morning. At the end of the session, I complained about the date of publication of the Official Butllet of the Parliament and of the celebration of the rule of law... of the CO2 emission tax bill. To say that I was wrongly fixed, the appreciation I made was not correct, so I withdraw that intervention and apologize. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.166.0	Thank you, Congressman. Thanks for the exercise, which, not by default, is not necessary. Thank you. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation of the health system]] [[302-00175/12]] We say that the next point was the motion following the question to the Government on the situation of the health system, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose it, the honourable Member has the word Escarp. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.167.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, good afternoon. I would like to begin this presentation of this young man with a reflection that is not mine, but that is today in an article. He says: "A better world begins because of the quality of its schools, because of the quality of its sanitation, as it takes care of the environment. Things don't work out either from rhetoric or from utopia. And anyway, it's always good to land in real trouble. And I wanted to start here, because actually the motion – today, a special day – talks about real problems, the problems of the situation of the health system in Catalonia, which, as we say at the presentation of the inquiry, has two realities, right? It has a reality of excellence and a reality of a daily care level that, in some ways, makes it difficult, many times, that it is possible to carry to term not only the pocket of the professionals, but the resistance and patience of the patients. Speaking of these two realities, there are also some reflections now that the rise of artificial intelligence to salvation, with its undoubted advantages, as they say, at the same time has the peril of deepening in inequality, and therefore, we have a responsibility, as governments, because this is not produced. Therefore, in this motion, what we want is to strengthen the system of public and universal health, equity, quality and bond with taxes, as a fundamental tool of social and territorial cohesion. Because that's what this is, and this is one of our first points, we think it's going to be a $1,500 per person per year spent on health, which is what would allow us to get close to OECD countries, and to increase this 3.7 per cent of GDP, which we currently dedicate to it. He said the President of the Generalitat that in the draft assumptions, with a pinnacle of numbers that made it difficult to hear and it seems that with some mistakes..., but he said that they would bring to Salut 900_million euros more respect to the assumption of 2017. 2017 was 8,800_millions, plus 900, so, to me donates 9,700_millions. But the counselor says that, this year 2019, we have spent 10,400_millions; she means that somehow or another, I have little confidence in these assumptions, because from the start, 700_millions less than we have spent in 2019. But perhaps the negotiators will explain it to me and, therefore, here we are, hoping that this assumption can reverse – difficult – some detail. He also said in the same speech, the President of the Generality, that a 25_percent of these 900_millions went to primary and community attention. In reality, what we want to clarify to the president is that what we ask is that the primary and community attention wanders 25_percent of the presupposition of Salvation. That is to say, of the 1,600_million, if we take these numbers, no 225, if we take the 900 that the president says. Therefore, the points of our motion are justified for which it refers to the need to increase expenditure in order to be able to launch a system of salvation or, as a minimum, to maintain it. Also, and speaking of the primary, we wanted to point out the importance of maintaining the agreements that were made with both the professionals and those who came out of the job, which at this time there is a complaint lodged for incompliment prior to the inspection. And we think it's important that you pull these chords. And at the same time, asking for a new departmental commission, which is for the strategic impulse of primary attention, that the truth, gives the feeling that we are creating commissions, but to make good that if you don't want to settle, it creates a commission. And so, we'd also like to know, and this is one of the other points. The other issue we're dealing with is waiting lists. With this decree, which is not by way of announcement real, that in the last Council of Direction of the CatSalut has been postponed until the 20th generation, but that it seems that it is agreed with the negotiators of the presupposition, and, therefore, that it is now, that we can present it and we can see it. Still, it seems that neither Catalonia in Comú Pode, nor the groups that support the Government want to allocate resources to a shoc plan. Anyway, the shock plan when it happened, it worked. It worked when the Councillor Comín did it; it worked at the beginning of this legislature, when it did it, and what is obvious is that we have to stop at structural measures, but as they do not arrive, it would be good to make a plate of rock – since we have so many surgeries closed for so many hours – that we can reduce the waiting list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.168.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, it is now a return to the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, specifically to the deputy Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.169.0	Thank you, President. Yes, we are at the top of the Spanish autonomies in reverse detail; in all, also in Salut. We're at the top of the waiting list. We are very ill placed in terms of conditions for professionals; there is a lot of discomfort in the profession, in the various health professions, for the maintenance of retail and precariousness in the subs, working conditions and for the tiredness of working in retail and stressed services. And we're still politically filling our mouths with the importance of primary care, but there's no way I can change the model and reverse the underrated role of primary care. How to reverse flaps? So hold assumptions; hold assumptions to reverse details, in any type of assumptions. And let's remember that if there wasn't 2019, that's the government didn't approve of them, and if there wasn't the state, that also affected the health system, it's because the Republican Left dropped them. We must go to a cost of €1,500 per inhabitant/year. And we have to go, from these assumptions, to make a multiannual proposal, as proposed by this motion. How to reverse the situation of professionals – of escape, even, of professionals we've been having in these past years – in the health care system, in the health care system? So what you can't do is keep asking for sacrifices, there's no eternal sacrifice possible for the cause. The resignation has a limit. And so, let's start reversing the details in working conditions that have occurred in the past few years. How to reverse the long wait lists we have? So with assumptions and structural attacks on the problems that the waiting lists generate. And no, in this case we do not agree with the proposal of the Socialists' motion, it is not with plans of shock. Councillor Comín's shock plans were used to temporarily reduce some waiting lists, but overall, one time the shock plans stopped, they all paid back; and in fact, with rebound effects. The plans of xoc, the fan is not structurally addressing the causes of the lists of waits, they are bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. And the bread for today, quite often, is basically for the private, to which are derived interventions or tests to reduce waiting lists. The great losers of the lists of hope or despair are the citizenry, and it is the credibility and prestige of the public system of salvation. The great beneficiaries of the rock plans always end up feeling that they are doing business with our salvation. And so, no, we don't want any more plans of rock; we want structural attack on the causes of the waiting lists. We tried it at the end of the past year, with a decree of accessibility, a decree of waiting lists that attacked the problem in its globality, with elements of structural changes, that have to pass yes or yes to give centrality and real capacity to primary care. We're not getting out. Now we come back, as a decree of accessibility already, he will advise – and this is what we agree, also at this point, with the motion of the Socialists – a decree that includes structural measures to reduce the wait for the whole system, but with a special focus on primary care. And the paper that this must have, too, in the derivation to diagnostic tests and to specialists. And respect primary care: now it's a year from the spring school week. It was a great touch of attention to a topic that many years ago we warned. What is needed is to reverse the girl details on the part of Mr. Boi Ruiz, especially in primary care, because it is where 80_per_cent of the population is reached and it is a good solution for medical care needs, but also what is needed is to captivate the system even more, with a paper not from the front door, but from the centrality of primary care in our health care system. We must, therefore, put an end to the detail. We need a health system that is economically prestigious and gives its primary attention with sufficient resources and also with management tools that make it possible to organize properly. And this is also an accessibility decree and well-managed resources. In this sense, in the defence of these structural elements, for us, and the basics, of how the health system and the health system should function, which is what this motion was about, we will vote in favour of almost all this motion, except point 4. Because no, we don't agree that the xoc plans are connected to this health system model and how to address the big and hard problems we have right now. One of them, the waiting lists.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.170.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Mr. Martin Eusebio Barra. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.171.0	Well, thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillor, very good afternoon to all. The PSC presents us with a motion that, with all the affection, I will allow myself to qualify as the "patchwork motion" or, as they say in the Rioja, "moción almazuela, which is a much more beautiful word, and I greet all the Riojas in passing. That is to say, it is a motion that collects a series of pieces that, separately, had already been the subject of debates in this chamber, each and every one of them are very important already, by themselves, and unites them in mulberry. And today we will have to re-vote the, unfortunately. Unfortunately, because this government does nothing to improve the deficits of our health system, nor that we ask it from this Parliament. This plenary session began last Tuesday, with the debate on the recognition and guarantee of the rights of gifts and the vice-president of the Consell Nacional de les Dones asked us to move from words to deeds. And we agree, but I add that it is already time to move from words to facts also in health. And I will give you an example – it has already been mentioned –: the shame of the waiting lists that we suffer in Catalonia. Our group tabled in the last legislature a motion to remedy this situation... pardon, a motion for a law, and the independence parties fell on us. We presented it again in this legislature and we fell again, with the priceless and always well prepared help of En Comú Puem, which was justified by saying: "We have managed that the Government is committed to making a decree before the end of this year – of the year... 2018. Well, last plenary session, Mrs Albiach asked the Government: "Hey, where is that decree that we were promised? Yes, Mrs. Ribas, yes. But you also promised that if the government did not present that decree in 2018, you would present a bill with your wonderful structural ideas. Where is he? Word, word, word; deeds, none. And the improvement of waiting lists, waiting. Of course, they have the famous hit stop feature of the fiscal deficit in their version 2.0... Sorry, the hit stop was the « Espanya ens roba. Uy, I almost forgot... version 2.0 of the tax deficit. Yesterday, Mr Aragonese did not complain: "It is that the Government has limited its management of revenue and expenditure. Come on, take it, and me! And all of you. And sovereign states, too. Don't play that indefinite game. Then come the black men from Europe, you get the bills and you get fines. Let's see what this government is doing with its current capabilities. Look, in the ghost budget of 2019, the one they posted on the internet but didn't dare bring that Parliament, there was an increase for Health of 533_million. It accounted for 27,3_per_cent of total expenditure. But it is that, in 2017, the percentage of total expenditure was 28.6; 533_million more, yes, but less percentage of total expenditure. And in that no one limits them. Those are their priorities, they are their decisions. Now they say that they will increase the budget by 900_million by 2020 and, although these figures are not closed, what we know – Mrs Escarp said – is that that budget does not cover the expenditure we have already made this year, by 2020, I meant. And then, even if this budget is approved, the entry system will have less money than it has needed this year. And of course you will also have pressures to cover, to implement the budget, and to stay within the budget limit. I mean, mentally, counselor, this government is still in the cutting phase. There is another classic hit stop, which you used rhetorically in the past Plenary, which the health system in Catalonia is a pioneer. Yeah, sure, and...? Let's see if you understand. You can be a pioneer and invent the wheel, but if you don't make the right maintenance, you pinch and you don't roll. And as has already been said, with its policies, we are keeping pace with the autonomous communities. You also assumed that this Government is the first – the first – of all democracy that has made a forum for professional diàleg, the first that has a roadmap for professionals. Look, I'm gonna talk to you first person about this. Health professionals are already fed up with pats on the back, telling us that the system works for our dedication and professionalism. Keep your hands on your back and make it easier for us to do our work in better conditions. We have tabled amendments, some have been accepted and others have not. As Mrs Escarp said, I regret that some of them did not accept it, because it added one more piece to this schooner, and the complete figure would have been more complete. But in any case, we will vote in favour of the whole motion for a resolution, of all points. And, finally, say two things. One, we have no confidence that this government will, nor this time, nor any confidence in the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.172.0	Deputy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.173.0	...velet Dr. Sánchez and his political partners. [[Widow's remorse.]] And, finally, happy Christmas. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.174.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gemma Espigares has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.175.0	Thank you, President. He'll advise the director of CatSalut and the team to accompany him. The truth is, normally, when we start talking, we start with the toilets and the discrepancies, and today I'm going to start upside down and I'm going to start thanking Congresswoman Escarp for the transactions we've come up with, because I think it's good news that today, in a motion that's global, that it's system-wide, that it touches a lot of different issues and that obviously it also has some details, but that it faces a lot of issues that are back now that I think it's good news. And that's good news because I don't think we can doubt the excellence of the health system, that we can't doubt that it's a universal system, despite the fact that some people tried to veto it and that you don't all have access to the health system. The managements that Constellera Vergés was able to do with the PSOE were that the unconstitutionality recourse to the law of universalization is withdrawn and, therefore, that we have a system that is universal, that is of excellence and that has a social cohesion and equity in which, obviously, we have materials that we can work on, but in what we agree, it is good news. And that's why we're voting for fifteen of the points in the motion. That, on the other hand, we won't do it the same time Congresswoman Ribas announces, and it's on this rock floor, and we also share the motivators of why we don't do it. The shock plan, obviously, as Mrs Escarp put it on the table, has some effects, but these effects, when the shock plan is over, disappear or even get in the way. Therefore, it is necessary to go to the structural model, to go to the root of problems and not to put pieces, despite the fact that at some point it has to be done. But I don't think we can escape the vision of a model, the great folds that we have and the structural changes that fall, because we come to talk about a model in which every time there are more inequalities, in which there is more aging, in which there is more complexity, and that technological advances allow us to do things that we can't do before. Therefore, I also have to face this whole part. And I'm into three special themes that I want to highlight. The first is the accessibility decree, which some say on the waiting list. And I'm stuck because, of course, Congressman Barra... Miri, I'll recognize that Esquerra and the commons in something we're slow, that's right, but as we approve the exam, I'm telling you because you came here with a bill proposal and suspended it, you didn't support it at all. Therefore, it is true, Esquerra and the commons are slower on what we would like, sure, but, as a minimum, we will approve of what will be good for the country. Therefore, in the decree of accessibility, not only in times and in the clinical criteria, but in facing the role of the caregiver, in facing the dependence, in facing that the first one who is above the list does not follow the one who is the first to be attached, only those people who have a work situation or have social criteria, which can also be taken into account. And that, moreover, is done in agreement with the scientific societies, and that some time of guarantee is extended and that some procedures of which the council has already spoken are involved. The second issue is the professionals, and here it's worth putting on top of the table the increase or increase of the DPOs, or that the professionals, this year, and more with the effort we've made this whole year is deserved, that is to have collected these complements. The 11,707 places of public offer, the more than 100 contracts there have been, the equipping, the stability..., are words that clearly all must sound and that they are good. I get involved in the issue of finance, because MP Escarp was talking about the difference between the presupposition executed and the presupposition. You're right. Despite that, I will also tell you that I prefer this situation to that which happens in Spain. We have a PSOE that presupposes more than it then completes. We have a government, with the themes of salvation, which presupposes less than that after which it always ends up paying, if necessary, because everyone has access to salvation. And finally, because all these reps are important. And I talked about the professionals, the complexity, the primary care, but above all, the opportunity. We have a government that faces reptes, reptes that are not easy, like the Truth, like the Hospital of Reus, like the CAP Raval. And, therefore, a government that does not think only of the course, but of the medium and the long term, and to do these rates at three years, and of the comfort plan at three years, and of the technological innovation at four, with more than 150,000_euros... And that's supposed to face the problem. And so, because today many things have happened and today our thoughts are also in Lledoners and they are with all the companies that have had good news. But because the responsibility of Esquerra Republicana was, today, to be in this House to give support and to prioritize salvation, today we will also vote for the salvation of this country. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.176.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to fix his position, he has the word on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP – Crida Constituent of the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese, when applicable.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.177.0	Good afternoon, President. To intervene from the escó. We wanted to say, first of all, that we would vote in favour of all the points of this motion, but we would like to make some considerations. The first, to be transferred to the government and also to the department. Agreements with workers' representatives and workers' representatives are about to make them effective. We cannot have a reality in which there are some who have been the great consensus to socially balance society, which is that what is agreed with the representatives of the workers is done. And I told him a spokesman for a group that, obviously, is not much of the culture of consensus, but it is about completing what is a pact and which means more rights to the workers and the workers. Also, make reference, as we have advanced, that we will vote in favour of all the points and, therefore, also, what makes reference to the shock plan. Is our model the rock plan? Of course not, and certainly not from the groups in this Parliament or from the subgroups. But until there's a profound change in the health system model, we're also betting on the shoal. And as a model, as a model, as a model, they have heard us explain it many times, that we will not find a comprehensive solution to the situation of Catalan sanitation if we do not advance in the construction of a public cent_per_cent system for both management and provision. And the last question, until we arrive – it seems to me that it will not be short – to this one hundred_per_cent public model, we insist on another idea, which is that of financing. And look, we want to move them with all kinds of respect to whom this week signed or presented a tax agreement. We have made the numbers of all the ways and, with the little increase that there will be for the year 2020, we will not have a solution to the problems of the health system. And we ask them, therefore, that they make no confusion between what is a tendential growth of what means more users of the system of salvation, increments retributius, to show that there is an increase in the expense of salvation. For now, we don't have any element that leads us to think that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.178.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.179.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, people who accompany us... In fact, the motion presented by the Socialist Group is an extension of one of the things we say this morning, which were the sacrifices that we suffer from the Catalans because of the government's inaction. It is an enlargement that we fully share – we fully share. I once again did an exercise: I remembered, a little while ago, that September was when the councillor appeared to the Health Committee and, after making her presentation with regard to all the management that she was doing – that we did not doubt it – she was going to have practical effects. And, in practical terms, I said to her: "Miri, I have just asked the family doctor for an hour and she's giving me an hour for the next 20 days. So we're in the month of disembarkation, she'll advise. While Mrs. Escarp was presenting the motion, I asked the family doctor for an hour: 21 genera– 33 days. We're not doing well! We're not doing well! You must be making every effort, I have no doubt about it, but the results are not the desirable ones. This exam does not approve, Mrs Espigares, this exam does not approve. Certainly, that of the presupposition, was not even presented in the previous call, that of 2019. They didn't even introduce themselves to the summons. It's not that the supenguessin, he's not introduced to the summons anymore. The one who stands in this young man we share. Primary expenditure, 25_percent of the conjunction of the expenditure in salvation, not of the increment, of the conjunction. Pla de coc versus structural measures, if we already agree, that what is relevant, that what is defined is the structural measures to end this bulk of waiting lists. Say with this crane to reduce the waiting lists to a reasonable level. If you already know, what structural measures are. And the shock plan is a temporary solution. But it's that neither the shoal nor structural measures, and the waiting lists grow. Well, one thing or another, but they do something! Because this can't go on like this. I'm done. As good as the presupposition, on the margin of the presupposition destined for primary care, is a real presupposition, which gives to cover all the needs that there is in salvation. And after that, once again, as is often the case, that the pharmacies have to be notified of the CatHello that they cannot charge the month of October because there is no presumption, which is what happened a few weeks ago. Fortunately they have rectified, but this has to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.180.0	Congressman... thank you. To pronounce on the exams, the honourable Member has a new twist.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.181.0	Very briefly. As Mrs Espigares said, we have accepted and we have been able to make transactions, also with the Parliamentary Group of Citizens. There's certainly a couple of... there's some items that haven't been admitted. It is true that things of extreme concern were also incorporated, but we thought it was not the time to expand the fan much more. I just, said that, and thank everyone's predisposition, indicate a couple of things on the rock board. I agree with the Members who preceded me, with Mr Vidal Aragonés, in the sense that between the structural measures and the shoc plan it is not white and black, but simply what we proposed was that, while these structural measures, that we are convinced that they must be made and that they must come, and that we believe that some day they will arrive..., so to what is usually said: between the short, the medium and the long term. So we're doing the short-term work on structural measurements. But, of course, if it was a year ago that they announced it to us and we still don't have it, as at least we could decongest some of the waiting lists, which is what it's all about. Certainly, we share the system, so it has not been so difficult to agree; basically based on primary, professional, emergency and also incorporate the socio-health care provider. And today we... today, which we theoretically have to vote on the Plea de los Dones, but I would like to refer to when we talk about the professionals of sanitation, when we talk about the professionals of primary school. Because what we see is a woman, well-formed, middle-aged, who doesn't have time for conciliation or so much alone, with a precarious contract and who, usually said, works more hours than a clock. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.182.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. Any separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, ma'am Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.183.0	For contradictions. And they also ask him for a separate vote. [[Pause.]] For contradictions with Mrs. Spigares. Miran, no; the people of the commons are not slow. If we are not slow to negotiate decrees before – because we will end up standing – then we have responsibilities for government. But we're not only not slow but we've already started doing the past year, a negotiation of a decree. We didn't agree. And you have been, since the government, the ones who have not continued with this negotiation. Well, when we get to the government, we'll have a good share of this work, and I'm sure that this decree, of course, has already approved and implemented these structural measures. [[Greetings.]] Separate vote, President, from point 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.184.0	Excuse me, about the bridge? That I don't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.185.0	Four.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.186.0	Four. [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.187.0	Separate vote from points 6.c and 11, which could be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.188.0	All right. Any more petitions? Don't you? [[Pause.]] So let's get to the vote. We'll vote first on point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 59 votes to 31, with 8 abstentions. We're voting points 6. and 11. The vote begins. Points 6.c and 11 were approved by 67 votes to one, with 30 abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved; 97 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day that's the next... [[Gemma Espigares Tribó asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mrs. Spigares.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.189.0	President, just because you know in the Minutes that if all elected Members have been able and willing to vote today the result of the first vote has been another one. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.190.0	Silences – silences. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the policies for the prevention of gambling]] [[302-00179/12]] The next point is the motion following the question to the Government on the policies for the prevention of ludopathies, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. To defend her, Mrs Marta Ribas has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.191.0	Counsel, deputies, deputies, if you want to win not play. It is the phrase with which Dídac Sison made a campaign to prevent ludopathy hanging and distributing posters and flyers across its bar. The Dídac is here today, he has designed years and has done his job of second-guessing ludopathy. Very good work, by the way. The quote because the conclusions of your search are a good example of what is happening with the game. The Dídac made a survey of children between eleven and twelve years of their school: 46_per_cent had spent money on computer games and 10_per_cent had spent more than 100_euros. Experts think these realities – computer games, huh? – they can turn into future cases of ludopathy, because they are games that normalize you spend money before a computer to get rewards. When you've already won everything in these games what's easy is to end up turning interest to bets. When, in addition, what you're getting is a constant bombardment of advertising about gambling and betting, a bombardment that can be quantified in the last few years: the betting houses have invested three times as much money as they have in advertising, and half of the announcements are broadcast in protected times in communication media. But, besides, they do it to you with stars from television, sports, music, and they offer you free bonuses for getting you hooked up, broth of culture served for ludopathy. Moreover, the risk of this online game is immediate and anonymous. You don't have to go to the bar, the bingo or the casino anymore, you don't get out of the house, twenty-four hours a day, 365 days a year; it's very easy to get in there even if you're under age, and more so you play with points of a tag, not with physical money, so you don't see how you're losing them. And so we are, playthings disappear, especially in games and online bets, especially among the youngest people. It is through this reality, for this alert cry that the existing state studies, the reports of the treatment units in Catalonia and the work of people like the Dídac that we are setting up – and we have set ourselves – this reason with these points; you are going to make us study with a logic of public salvation to keep in mind what we are facing and how it evolves, campaigns of prevention and awareness of the danger involved in the addiction to the game; also campaigns from the same education system, preventive cross-cutting strategy. And regulatory issues: regulation of existing taxes that have not been developed for these sectors that allow us to have more resources to improve the prevention and treatment of ludopathy; regulations to limit accessibility to bets and online games both in physical spaces – casinos, playrooms – as in computers of public dependencies, for example, as has been done in the city of Barcelona; regulations to complete the limitation of access to underage people or to people who self-prohibit themselves, who are in a register of self-prohibited people. And more effort in the inspection of compliments of the laws and regulations of the sector. Also regulatory measures to prohibit the advertising of the game and bets, measures to be made from the State and some that can also be made from Catalonia. And I want to highlight two in this sense: it also forbids not only the media but the prohibition of advertising and sponsorship of sports teams of all categories – it is shameful, it is shameful that you are promoting games and sports betting – and also the prohibition of advertising to the public transport network. The proposal that we already know will certainly not prosper from our young man is point 13. It's a point of coherence. We can't be saying that we need to fight ludopathy and continue defending that the Hard Rock project is to be made in Vila-seca and Salou. Therefore, we must repeal absolutely the legislation that gives coverage to the construction of this touristic macroproject and the game to Vila-seca and Salou. And thank the work of the parliamentary groups that have made papers and with which we have made transactions. It's been complicated and complex, and that makes until the last moment we're still passing them to the groups, a document with some corrections that respect these transactions. I think all groups have to write down the corrections. Thanks also to Dídac, Francesc Perendreu d'Acencas, Laia and Joaquín, for helping me to make this young man; in fact, it is yours. And I end up with a phrase that, all the while looking for references to ludopathy, they will find, by the US writer Mark Twain: "There are two moments in life when a person should not play, when he has no money to do so and when he plays with his own money. Come on, play, never better. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.192.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the exams, has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, the lady deputy Blanca Victoria Navarro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.193.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Before I begin my intervention I would like to mention that as a result of last night's riots there are two seriously injured mossos and thirty-five more slightly injured. My recognition and desire for early recovery for all of them. (Applause.) I find it very striking that none of the groups, in what we are wearing from plenary today, have made mention despite the fact that some of the groups here have responsibility for this body. Returning to the motion, I would first like to greet the representatives of Acencas, above all for their insistence on further progress in prevention and care for people with gambling problems. And I am grateful that this motion has been tabled so that we can move forward in both respects. But with our full agreement that the current situation in terms of prevention and care for people with these problems is truly worrying, as is the case in other areas of mental health and addictions, some considerations are necessary. First, when we talk about ludopathy, we're talking about pathological gambling, not any gambling behavior. It's considered that someone has a problem with the game when they lose the freedom to decide whether they want to play or not, isn't it? , when the game becomes a necessity and generates problems, social, economic, family problems. Citizens have put forward proposals at the Congress in which we urged the Government to reform the General Audiovisual Communication Act and the General Advertising Act to regulate the advertising of bookmakers and online portals to reduce the exposure of the younger population, because we understand that to prevent risk play and problem play the important thing is to regulate access and especially in younger people. Second, today the threat of pathological gambling is intimately linked to screen addictions, because the online gambling modality is the one that has grown the most in recent years. And this makes game prevention much more complex, because we're all more or less hooked up to mobiles all day. There are not only limits in access to the online game, it is twenty-four/ seven, and especially in the younger population, because the consumption without limit of screens is completely normalized. In July 2016, this Parliament approved a Citizens' motion to urge the Government to improve the prevention of addictions without substance or social additions, including pathological gambling. Among other things, it was urged to set up the ICT table, which, in addition to meeting only once in the last two years – to take the picture and a little more – we have asked the Government for a report on the agreements and progress of this table and have not provided it to us. The report on the implementation of the motion refers us to the Mental Health Plan and addictions, and tells us that from now on the portfolio of services of drug addiction centres will also attend to the pathological game. But they want to do what they don't have the resources to do, they don't have the training of professionals, and they don't even publish the new drug plan and behavioral additions. Thirdly, we fully agree that it is necessary to make progress on prevention programmes in the field of education, as has already been approved in this Parliament. But they want to do it again without providing resources and without ensuring that all young people can access it. Finally, they have already told us over and over again that they are not here to govern an autonomous community, and they demonstrate this once again, because, when the agreements of this Parliament are to be implemented and resources are to be put in place, this Government does not do so. On the other hand, in March 2019 our group asked for the data of how many people in Catalonia are being cared for by gambling problems and neither have they answered us. You see, they presume to be transparent and they're repeatedly hiding information from us. Most importantly, how many people are not being cared for? They have to be going to the private resource network, because the public health network is not taking care of them. And in the middle of all the points, Lords of Pom, oh, surprise! If the Hard Rock project appears! Is this a motion to prevent ludopathies, or is it really another excuse to talk about...? No, it's just that if we don't understand the difference between the game and the pathological game [[remorse of the voice]] It is difficult to make progress in prevention policies. And if we are not clear that there can be a balance in reconciling policies with public health prevention policies, prevention of addictive behaviours and fraudulent behaviours, it will be difficult to move forward. And the current situation is that, in this Government, the policies of prevention and care for the people who need it are totally brilliant because of their absence, and that is where we will have a long, long, long way to go. So, said all this, Merry Christmas. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.194.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, has the word, by Grup Parlamentari Republicà, the deputy Ferran Civit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.195.0	Thank you, President. Diputats deputades... « The more you know, the better you bet, « Bet and start winning, « Live emotion, « Success gives you even more, « The better you win is to count what, « Enter, enter, think, think, think; bet, bet, bet; pull, pull, strip; suffer, suffer; scream, scream, scream; play, play, play, « A hundred euros for free in your welcome bonus, « Live emotion, live sport, « Double bonus up to two hundred_euros per cent, « Come to your betting house, « Play from anywhere with the app, « Register now and start playing. Check you out now and... start some disgrace. (Founding voice) Huh? (Founding voice)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.196.0	Congressman, please continue. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, be quiet. Congressman, I can go on. Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.197.0	Can I continue?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.198.0	Yeah, yeah. Speak to the deputy, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.199.0	The castle is my paternal language.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.200.0	Go on, Congressman. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.201.0	Keep going. Thank you, President. First of all, therefore, congratulate Dídac and all the people that the Member said she gave her support, because many thanks for making this proposal. I think it's necessary, essential, with all the ludopathy we have, because it has to take into account that this, ludopathy, is now heroin 2.0; a virtual heroine that's just as addictive, just as destructive for all families. If we are clear that the ethical bank does not invest in oil, weapons, tobacco, nuclear energy, or fossil fuel, it is also clear that they must be negative, because it does not invest in bets, the ethical bank. You bet that, if we remember that before, then, the mafias would flatten you, now these playthings will nail you to debt-based hooligans and destroy your life and your family. To my people – the Scruggle of Francolí, four thousand inhabitants – we don't have any gambling houses, but yesterday I went, logically, to..., as I believe, I participated in the action of the Tsunami, and on the way out – that I certainly take advantage of to say: today it is usually the day of Sports Carousel, so yesterday we also saw a police carriage that was not fun nor would I say that it was legal or legitimate. So, when I got out of Tsunami, I went through a couple of bet boxes and I saw it full: a lot of people betting, even with the live game, continuing to spend money that they probably later went to credit boxes, in which they pay 20_per_cent interest. And that's pretty unfortunate, because it generates a spectacular addiction. Because, certainly, here in Catalonia, so, we have a few cups...: currently 127 games – 127. Right now, in some places in the Spanish State, so, there are only... in two barrels, in Carabanchel and Puente Vallecas, there are more games than here in Catalonia, but there should be neither here nor place, because only these two barrels, but in all the community of Madrid, 378 and Andalusia, 743. Therefore, we are talking about hundreds and hundreds, all of peninsular geography, gambling houses, which encourage addiction. And, of course, if we continue with the subject – this, the honourable Member has commented, that the gambling houses are sponsoring sports teams, and one of the points says it –, so clearly: more than half of the clubs in the League sponsor it, and that also includes players who..., even though they are not in the Spanish League like Cristiano Ronaldo, or Gerard Piqué, who support this. And it should be remembered that the Royal Society, through its partners, voted precisely not to accept gambling houses. Let's have it. That if there's a club that talks about values, like someone we have, precisely..., or yesterday where Tsunami's action is done..., when I talk about values, we have it present for everything. Here we have Bellvitge's unit, created in '87, with two more centers fighting ludopathy, but it's that there really shouldn't be, and that's what we need to see. It is 42,000_million euros in the year to the Spanish State, that so much good these 42,000_million euros served for the welfare of the people, served because of an investment in their family welfare, that... Logically, the many taxes that are leaving, that even some are dumping not only within the European Union, but also within the Spanish State, going to Ceuta and Melilla..., so that logically these taxes are annexed directly to the social welfare of everyone, for social justice. We shall call for a separate vote on paragraphs 13 and 18. Point 18, because, although we appreciate it, therefore, that we have entered into the vast majority of transactions – even at the last moment – in this case, we asked for the fact that the Lottery of Catalonia, but even so, in this case, the National Lottery, Lottery of the State, therefore, can be announced, because at least in the case of Catalonia the hundred_percent of the benefits go to social causes. And, logically, there is chance, but it is clear that after two centuries of lottery existence in the Peninsula which has generated, more than an addiction comparable to the other type of ludopathy, it is a bit of tiredness that, in view of these dates, everyone comes to sell the lottery. And he said that, and to finish, so also wish good holidays to everyone, and also, serving the language that today in the morning has opened up to refer to a companion of mine, from the "party of coexistence, tolerance and respect, I want to wish good holidays to everyone, and especially to the "criminals who are in prison, exile and politically and judicially persecuted. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.202.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend her views, she has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs.Glòria Freixa. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] As long as it's not in the hemicicle, I'll pass the word to the next poser. Te..., to defend her position, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, the lady Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.203.0	Thank you. I think I'd like to thank Congresswoman Marta Ribas for this young lady's presentation. In fact, here we have already discussed – it seems to me that the deputy of Ciutadans gave it, too – around the game, the playpathy and these additions that have come to say « non-substantial additions, and that, in reality, are technology, video games, playpathy, and that someone has classified it as « the drug of the 21st century. I also take this opportunity to greet those who have wanted to accompany us today, concerned, because it is a subject for which we do not only have to worry, but we do not have to deal with it. And I think it's a little bit of a mover for the Member's motion, that it's a cross-section motion and that it's trying to address various aspects of it. Before I remembered that yesterday Constable Chacón made an intervention in the sense of the fine, the sanction that posed itself to a web page that advocated anorexia and bulimia. This was possible thanks to the modification of the Consumer Code; this modification of the Consumer Code had been done jointly between the fighting table against anorexia and bulimia, the parliamentary groups and, therefore, all agreed. I think it's a model to follow to pull forward and make some of the legislative changes that are being made here, that is, the table of addictions to technologies, which has not just been set up, can be a place where we can be capos..., said before Mr. Aragonès that is not very favorable to consensus, but yes to joint work, and I think that this can be a perfect table because things are done. Because it is obvious that we are talking about young people, and therefore we need to talk about prevention, and prevention means many things: I mean departments – I mean Education, I mean Greeting – but I also mean that we have the sensitivity to know how to help families, how to accompany them and how to approach it. We need to be aware that we are facing a problem of addiction to the game, which I believe, and to the new technologies, which have not been given the importance it has. And that I... there's still a lot of people who think that, well, how could I have grown so much in such a short time. And here they have a lot to see the communication media, the publicity that has been done, the fact that it is possible to advertise some of the spaces of the ocean, and therefore, every time more, we find ourselves with victims of very early age; it is easier... The statistics of the whole state said that more than 18_percent of the adolescent and young population of fourteen and divided used technologies abusively, but what is obvious is that the age range is lower each time. But one of the data, and I'm not going to say it numerically, but that's more shocking, is that the percentage of teen addicts is higher than adult addicts, and therefore it's an absolutely troubling issue. The abuse causes the young person to spend more time in this activity, to seek out, to lower self-esteem, to abandon the family and personal environment, to abandon the school and to replace real relationships many times for the virtual ones, and therefore, this virtual world facing the real world, ends up destroying these young people and their own future. If the game has always been understood as a normal and positive activity in the life of a teenager – grow up playing, get together and learn to play together, facilitate physical and psychological and social development and make it easier for them to learn and discover their surroundings – what we are seeing now is not this definition of game. We see what the pathological game is: gambling with economic remuneration. It is the waste of all those values that in itself is the game, and above all with the situation that generates spending money that is not owned or not suitable. As the honourable Member said: neither yours nor anyone's, nor that you do not have it; therefore, never. Therefore, we will give support to this young man, also entering the aspects of prevention, in themes of advertising of games and bets in audiovisual media, in the camps of the sport. We need to learn about tobacco and alcohol regulations and be tougher – because we also need to be tighter with some of the tobacco and alcohol regulations –, to facilitate and increase the difficulty of accessing playrooms, whether physical or virtual, and above all to charge taxes and taxes, in a strong way, this activity. In the background, what we pursue is not to talk more about playpathies, but about the game as a factor of growth and coexistence, and not a factor of destruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.204.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the position has now the word, in the name of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the lady Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.205.0	Good afternoon. This motion will, of course, be put to the vote in favour of it, but most of it is not in its totality. It was said: ludopathies affect young people and people with mental impairments more deeply. Therefore, to many of the measures that are proposed in this sense, we support it, especially for what it does to prevention: publicity, awareness campaigns... But we consider that it is necessary to deploy all the tools, from the public space, that could allow us to cope with this problem of violent playpathies. And before the deputy of Ciutadans said to us: "Ostres, they have collated here the Hard Rock. It's just that he didn't stick. It's that he has a direct connection. [[Greetings.]] You're obvious. And, Counselor, it is impossible to vote in favour of this young man, where gravity is planted, measures, and at the same time to be promoting the largest casino in Europe as an ideal project for citizens. It's a nocturnal project: nocturnal for the public arches, nocturnal for salvation, nocturnal for the territory, and nocturnal for the expectations of a whole territory – in words, perhaps, of the government – "certainly expectations in a project – that of Hard Rock – which will be harmful for the lives of the territories of Camp Tarragona, and you know it. But you continue, continue betting on this economic model. Because they can't see..., or they're trying to make it look like ludopathy is something that comes from the no-res, something natural. And no, behind this chakra and this problem of salvation, there are great enterprises benefiting from the salvation of the people. They're making money at the expense of people getting hooked up to the game. And you, what they're planting is: we're going to make the biggest complex in Europe because that's possible. Therefore, we believe that it is of great hypocrisy to say that we will fight against ludopathies with all force, and, at the same time, to promote this project, I insist, harmful to the public arches, harmful to salvation, harmful to the territory, and very harmful to the expectations and expectations of the popular classes. I'm done. In addition – and here I make a criticism – you ask the question of taxes, of the tax on the game... [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] "I'm done," they're saying... "between a negotiation, I've reviewed, and I'm not mistaken, your agreement. In no case have they reached an agreement with the government to refer the barbarity that was to lower the tax on the game from 55_per_cent to 10_per_cent. So I encourage them to make it possible. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.206.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs Esperanza García has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.207.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillor, night and day, right? , because now I'm going to explain what the position of the People's Party respects this young man. In the first place, we believe that this young man has two concepts that are absolutely different. One is ludopathy, which is associated with the game, whether it's face-to-face or via telematics, by means of technology, and another is the use of technologies, which did not need to be barred and associated with the theme of the game, which could be – for example – the abuse of the Instagram, Facebook or any other application. Respect the text of the motion. We find that there are three types of measurements. Some, who are in the treatment of ludopathy, with proposals in place that we sincerely believe are good, and we will give it total recollection. A _second block of measures, which has to do with increasing taxes. Also, increase taxes and push them – not all of them are in line with taxes – and we will not vote in favour. A third, which refers to amending laws and regulations. In some cases you propose to ban directly, and in others we do not understand well what it is that you want to say, or what it is that you intend, with which we will not be cautiously abstaining. And yes, it is true, at the end of all you include in this young man, supposedly pathological game... – I repeat: pathological game, ludopathies –, you include the theme of the recreational and touristic project of Tarragona. And we, as skeptical as we are, as long as we're talking about this project in Tarragona – and I don't know if we'll ever see it –, we don't tank doors to opportunities. The game is not illegal. The game, with responsibility, is not illegal. Two, one of the things that fosters more ludopathy is not necessarily the face-to-face game, but sometimes it gets used to being more the game that is applied by mixing the new technologies. We don't think it's a bad project, unlike the CUP, which is why it says that night and day. And we're totally open to seeing this as an opportunity. We'll see if we see it, but in any case, we won't give it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.208.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, to pronounce on the papers, Mrs Marta Ribas has a new turn. Two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.209.0	Thank you. Just to make it formal. I understand that everyone has these corrections to the transactions that we made them arrive and that there's no problem in admitting them. Mirin, Catalonia – an element that we have not commented on until now – really, the regulation we have is the best in Spain. It started many years ago, and it makes Catalonia have, by number of inhabitants, fewer salons and fewer casinos than many other communities. But, on the other hand, we are very, very, very backward in prevention issues. This young man claims we don't go back on regulatory issues, and, in turn, we move on to everything that comes back on prevention issues, especially with the leadership of the ICT table. And within the two most controversial points, for which he has seen interventions from the rest of the groups, and which, therefore, will not be approved and there has been no acceptance of statements. Yeah, we're talking lotteries, we're talking gambling and gambling, when we're talking publicity. It's a controversial issue, but that's what political motions are for, to provoke debates that start to change things. And no, we don't want to assume the contradiction of saying that advertising is forbidden a type of game, advertising of..., those that are private, but not of those that are public or foundational. Look, tobacco is bad, it's always been bad. Even when Tabacalera was public. It's neither good nor bad for the title of which I produced it. And that's exactly what the other controversy that they put us through. Play, play, play, play, play, play, play, play, Look, no, there's no confusion about this. Tobacco is not illegal, but access has been limited, sales places, consumption places have been limited, preventive campaigns have been carried out, no, the game is not illegal, but let's regulate it with all these same prohibitions, as at least, because ludopathy is a serious problem. We don't hold the contradiction of this type, and we don't want to hold it, and that's why we also put it in the advertising ban, as we do not hold the contradiction – I end, president – to admit that the games and betting fairs have to be limited, and, in turn, admit that a Hard Rock Cafe has to be made, in Salou.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.210.0	Thank you. We're calling it a vote. [[Pause. Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Granados?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.211.0	Yes, for a separate vote, President. Point number 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.212.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Caula?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.213.0	Yes, for a separate vote from point 6 and 18, they could vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.214.0	All right. [[Natalia Sánchez Dipp asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Sánchez?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.215.0	We'd just like to ask you to read point number 13, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.216.0	Okay. Aimed. [[Esperanza García González asks to speak.]] Mrs. Garcia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.217.0	Separate vote from 4 to 7, they could vote together. The 11th... I don't know if it'll be easier, practically, to vote all points separately, but if I want it there... for now I don't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.218.0	For now, I think we can make everything compatible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.219.0	Come on. So, we said the 4th and the 7th together, and then the 11th, because if I'm not mistaken, they've already asked for it on the 13th, right?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.220.0	Yeah. I, did you tell me from 4 to 7, or 4 and 7? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.221.0	Four to seven.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.222.0	Four to seven. Therefore, with 5 and 6 incorporated.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.223.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.224.0	All right. Thank you. [[Marina Bravo Sobrino asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Bravo?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.225.0	Well, for our part, 4 and 5 could be voted together; 12, 18, and the 13 that has already been said.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.226.0	Okay. I think I've been able to collect everything. In any case, if there is any difficulty because I include two points that they want to vote separately, they tell me before the vote, anyway. In the first place, we would vote on points 4 and 5–4 and 5. Okay? [[Pause.]] Start voting – points 4 and 5. Points 4 and 5 were approved by 58 votes to 4, with 37 abstentions. We're voting now point 6 – point 6. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 64 votes to 35, with no abstentions. Vote now... [[Ferran Civit and Martí ask to speak.]] Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.227.0	To the group of commons, which has made a mistake; therefore, I take my guilt in the sense of the vote. It's here. Thank you very much. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.228.0	Okay. Therefore, it was an explanation of vote, Member, which they voted wrongly. [[Widow's remorse.]] All right. It's clear – it's clear. Point number seven. The vote begins: 7. Point 7_has been approved by 95 votes to 4, with no abstentions. We're voting point number 11–11 now. The vote begins. Point 11_has been approved by 95 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting point number 12. The vote begins. Point 12_has been approved by 59 votes in favour, against and 40 abstentions. And now we're voting point 13. We'll read it before, just like you asked. Therefore, ask Secretary David Pérez to read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.229.0	« Motício sobre les politiques de prévention de ludopathies; point number 13: abandon the project of the Hard Rock and repeal the regulations that gives coverage to the construction of the touristic macroproject and the casino of Vila-seca and Salou.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.230.0	All right. So, let's vote this one, point number 13. The vote begins. Point 13_has been rejected by 11 votes in favour, 87 against and no abstentions. We're voting point 18 now. The vote on Point 18 begins. Point 18_has been rejected by 28 votes to 31, with 40 abstentions. And if there's no point in voting separately, we'll vote on the rest of the motion. Yeah? (Pause.) We are voting, therefore, on the rest of the motion remaining to vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 99 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[General debate on the recognition and guarantee of the rights of women (continuation)]] [[255-00009/12]] Next, let's move on to the specific debate that we started last Tuesday, with the debate on the motions for resolutions following the general debate on the recognition and guarantee of the rights of women. We shall now proceed to the debate on the motions for resolutions subsequent to the general debate on the recognition and guarantee of the rights of women. And at the end of this debate, we shall vote on the motions for resolutions in order of entry into the register. There is a turning point for each parliamentary group proposing, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Naomi de la Calle is starting. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.231.0	Good afternoon. First of all, I would like to greet and welcome the people and entities who accompany us today, especially the representatives of the Pakistani community in Catalonia. Secondly, regret the contempt of the absent parliamentary group for the work of so many women who have been involved in this plenary, but above all the contempt for all women in Catalonia, because what they expect from the public authorities is a minimum of respect and attention for their needs. That said, in 1975, the UN decided to institutionalize International Women's Day to commemorate the struggle for equality between women and men. [[Widow's remorse.]] In Spain, it also has a special meaning...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.232.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.233.0	... as from 8 March 1910, women were able to access higher education on an equal basis with men. March 8th is a special day to claim equality, but we cannot stay alone in that. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] To get women to develop our life plan on an equal footing, President, I just don't hear myself, with the rumor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.234.0	You're right. You're right, Congresswoman. I said, be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.235.0	Yeah. Today is an important day for women, so I would like us all to listen with a little attention, because I think we all have a lot to say and contribute. As I said, March 8 is a special day to claim equality, but we cannot stay alone in this. In order for women to be able to develop our life plan on an equal footing, we have to work every day, as inequality is a social problem with global significance. And with that intention it was decided to convene this plenary session. And, starting from this base, if what we want to put are solutions on the table, what we have to avoid is the partisan use and frivolization that is made of this serious problem. And I'm going to give you some examples. Yesterday, a law was laid down that could empower victims of macho violence and in this very plenary we heard the same speech made two weeks ago by MP Madaula, when she said that in Catalonia fewer protection orders were granted to victims of macho violence as a result of the fact that the judicial system is Spanish and that is why a Catalan state was needed. And, fix the incoherence, in the Rioja, where 91_per_cent of the protection orders are granted, almost double the percentage that is granted in Catalonia, the judicial system is also Spanish, and what differentiates them from Catalonia is that there do not have a government that in fourteen years has not developed forensic assessment units, which is why the judges in Catalonia lack that tool. Ergo judges in Catalonia are no longer machistas, what happens is that here we have a government that keeps a strike with its arms down, while it blames Spain for everything. So, please, let us address the issues seriously, because I remind you that we are the only autonomous Spanish community that lacks these units. Do it, please, at once, develop them. On the other hand, to affirm that inequality between women and men is a thing of the capitalist system, as if in communist systems or in pre-industrial societies, so women enjoy an advantage over men, when it really is quite the opposite, because that does not help either, because, look, machismo does not understand either red or blue, machismo is given in all societies regardless of the economic system, so please do not take advantage here to sell us your book of economic recipes, because we are not here for this, but to achieve concrete measures that would have a positive effect on women's lives. And, of course, the groups, the different groups can have many differences, we have expressed them many times in the parliamentary debate and I am sure that we will continue to express them. But, of course, what we did not imagine was that, in a plenary like this, some people would use that rhetoric, talk about "the policies taken and use the same old mantras, when it was a day to show consensus together in favour of women's equality. [[Greetings.]] And I think we need to say this here, because I firmly believe that what needs to be done is to stop looking at our navel, look at us less at our navel and look more at those women who are waiting for solutions from the public authorities. And, from Citizens, we have tried with our proposals to provide solutions and we have put measures to put education at the center, as one of the fundamental axes to end machoism. We believe that citizens should be trained in such a way that equal rights and duties, opportunities and aspirations, and opportunities and goals are recognized. To put an end to machismo in young people, by educating them in values of equality, is a guarantee of a better future for our society. We ask to make visible in school the role of women, making their contribution known in society, because girls need female referents so that they never have doubts that they can reach the highest or where they propose. One of the terrible consequences of inequality is that we still have a higher prevalence of poverty among women. The numbers do not deceive: seven_of_each_ten people who go hungry in the world are women; the wage gap in Spain is unacceptable, and the rate of female poverty in Catalonia increases every year. And this is not because we women are weaker, smaller and less intelligent, as a cenutrient said in the European Parliament, this is because society tends to favour men who earn bread and, on the other hand, we tend women to care for the family. And it shouldn't be, but this is still happening right now. This is because the incorporation of women into the labour market has not been accompanied by effective policies that allow for the co-responsibility between women and men demanded by today's society. And the result is that only 4_per_cent of the parents ask for a reduction in the day by paternity and 95_per_cent of the people who do not have a job to care for a dependent person, so they are women. And in the middle of the 21st century we continue to have problems in reconciling work and family life; many of us go through that moment of anguish of having to ask ourselves to choose between our professional career or maternity, and, if by any chance we think of choosing our career, we are subjected to a constant pressure that generates a feeling of guilt for not fulfilling our reproductive role. So, to the lack of co-responsibility in household tasks, the difficult reconciliation, the wage gap, the high rates of female unemployment, the precariousness of work, we must add to the social pressure exerted by the alarming low birth rate that has reversed our population pyramid. For this reason, we have put forward measures to combat the feminization of poverty, making progress in policies to reconcile social and working time, co-responsibility between women and men, reducing the wage gap, female unemployment and the precarious working conditions of women, such as the re-financing of children's education from zero to three years and the reduction of the waiting lists in dependency, which are the worst in Spain, once and for all. And we also call for wage transparency. And since inequality between women and men is reduced not only to the economic sphere, but also to the capacity for social interaction or political participation, also of freedom of expansion or thought, in our proposals we call, inter alia, for sport to be a tool for inclusion and promotion of the values of equality, and for sportswomen to have the same opportunities as men. Because that is what it is about, to ensure equal opportunities in all areas of life, whether in sport, in the political sphere, in the health field, in the media, in the academic and research career or in the rural world. We have tried to respond to all this in our proposals. And we have not wanted to forget either specific groups that are particularly affected by inequality, with specific plans for the socio-occupational integration of women with disabilities or transgender women, ensuring that they have access to a specific portfolio of health services. And we also call for the rejection of the transphobic discourse as that of the party of Lydia Falcon, which aims to exclude transgender women from the feminist struggle because they do not consider them women; because that has a name and is called « transphobia. And, finally, we have addressed one of the clearest manifestations of inequality in our society: the macho violence that socially isolates the victims. The subjection of women to men is aimed at controlling them and their contacts with the world outside the home, reducing the quality of life of women and their social skills, reducing their abilities to participate in activities outside the home, including the possibility of having an income and being part of community and social activities in general. And for that reason, and for all those who do not have a second chance, in our proposals we ask for more prevention, with special attention to young people and the invisible victims of macho violence; we ask for help to reintegrate themselves into work; we ask for more coordination between administrations and agencies, and, most importantly, what we are asking for is resources, because I am already getting tired of postures, because here everyone is activists for women's rights, but the reality is that the different governments that have paraded through the Generalitat have been cutting victim care policies for 12 years. So less speeches and more reverse those cuts. Finally, we live in a great country to be a woman, because we have some of the most advanced equality laws, but there are still many things to change, achievements to achieve, rights to conquer. And I think we need to have enough ambition to make things better, to be able to leave the new generations a better, freer and more opportune world. And there will be no equality without freedom. There will be no equality until a woman has to choose between her career and her family because of the lack of public policies that favour co-responsibility and reconciliation. And there will be no equality until we accept that violence against women [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] It's not just a women's problem, it's a human rights issue. And human rights are no one's property, because they concern us all. Let's put together what unites us...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.236.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.237.0	... let us not raise borders in the immense plurality of feminism, let us move from protest to proposal, from speeches to solutions and concrete measures. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.238.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of MP Aurora Madaula. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.239.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Welcome the associations of women's rights. We are here, in the Ple de las Dones, because there is indeed an emergence, a masculist emergence, an emergence of the patriarchal system in which we are all living, but we are here above all for the sake of the institutions and respect for the work that has been done with the women's associations, with all the work that has been done together with the other parliamentary groups and with the Government in defending the motions for resolutions that will be approved today and that will mean a step forward in the rights of women. But we are here above all, as I said, out of respect for this institution, but also out of respect for the institution of the President of the Generality, which is for itself an institution and the most important institution of the Government of the Generality of Catalonia. There is a male emergence in Catalonia, but there is also a political emergence, an emergence that puts us in danger of democracy. Today we have learned of the inability of the President of the Government of Catalonia, the very honorable President of the Republic of Catalonia. For this reason, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia has asked the Board of Spokesmen to suspend this plenary, because we believe that the day on which the ruling that the President of the Generality is disqualified comes out, the day on which this threat to democracy is announced, we believe that we cannot follow the plenary as if nothing happened, as if it were a situation of total normality, when the civil and political rights of this country's most important institution are violated. We have not managed to have the House suspended by the Spokesman's Board, and therefore we are here, by responsibility, by responsibility with women, by responsibility with the rights of women and associations that have worked firmly with all the motions for resolutions that will be approved today, and, therefore, by responsibility, we will not participate in this debate, but we will come to vote on the resolutions that will be approved today in this House because there is no right of the woman that I have been raped for the political repression that we are living in this country. The day Europe frees political prisoners and exiles [[remorse of the voice]] Spanish disables the very honorable President Torra...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.240.0	Quiet. Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.241.0	I'll start again, because I have time. The day Europe frees political prisoners and exiles, Spain disables the very honorable President Torra for a banner demanding the freedom of political prisoners and exiles. I repeat: the day Europe releases political prisoners and exiles, Spain disables President Torra for a banner demanding the freedom of political prisoners and exiles. Magnificent half-hour of Spanish democracy. We will defend until the last moment the institution that represents the very honorable President Torra. We defend it because it is one of the institutions of the Government of the Generality and we defend it in the same way that we defend the rights of women, because the defense of all rights must be linked, cannot defend the rights of women without defending democracy; the defense of the rights of women must always be linked to the democratic rights for which we have been fighting. We will never stop defending the rights of women or the feminist struggle. We'll never stop defending women's rights, you can count on us. But we will never stop, we will never go back or give up, in defence of civil and political rights, because that is all: when we defend human rights we defend democracy and when we defend women's rights we defend democracy. We can never defend the rights of women if we do not have democracy; therefore, we cannot defend the rights of women when they are trying to disable democracy in this country. Visca, visca, visca, feminist struggle. Dream of freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.242.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Jenn Díaz has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.243.0	Thank you, President. We are also aware of the exceptional nature of the country, but we also have a responsibility and a challenge like the country. MEPs have rights – and today Europe has told us again – but we also have rights. And because we want a precisely feminist republic and in respect of the council that is with us today and the women of this country, today the Republican Group is in the Plethora of Principles at the end. [[Greetings.]] "I write from among the stands, for the stands, the sails, the truckers, the frigids, the bad fucks, the inflatables, the historics, the tarads, for all the outcrops of the great market of the aunt bona. These words are part of King Kong Theory, of the author Virginia Despentes, and I start with that because, when we talk about feminism and we do it in plural, we do it precisely because we want to talk about the women that we are at the center of everything, the privileged women, that many of us are, but we also want to write for the women that remain on the margins, because feminism is very diverse and plural, as we are the women. Those who want to base their discourse on feminism in which it is not a question to hate men or to hold them as enemies, or not to impose a single way of being a woman, sincerely, we consider them to be indispensible. They are indispensible speeches because the feminist movement does not claim to impose anything on anyone. What he's looking for is to put an end to all the oppression, all the domination, come from where he's coming from. In this line, we wanted to present to the Republican Group a proposal that you spoke precisely – and that's why I started precisely with this King Kong Theory – about taboos and stereotypes. Because, since they are not the competence of anyone and they are constructions, most of them, social and cultural, sometimes we forget to introduce some debates in institutional politics beyond the competences and institutional politics, and we consider that they should also be, because the schools, the truckers, the frigids, the bad fucks, also remain in this hemicicle. Virginie Despentes wrote of them, and we also want to do politics of them and for them. We want to talk about this pharystoll, before all of you, Members and Members, for example, of hair removal, menstruation, menopause or female orgasm, all those questions that end up embarrassing us all our life, because they have told us that everything that only affects women is a private matter. And the feminist movement that it does is just turning to what we've been told is individual, particular, community and collect, and that's precisely why it's political and we need to put it on from all the altars that we have, also from this. Let's talk to our proposal about different taboos that affect, for example, the reproductive system or about our sexuality, motherhood or salvation. Stereotypes and taboos condition our lives ever since we were born, and talking about it in their parliament should also help us break up with all of them. The women also masturbate, yes, and we have lubrication problems, and we have postpart depressions or we are sterilized, and they also rape us. They rape us and, if we see life peril and we sort inaction, silence or passivity, I insist, to save life, we have many chances that a judge will just tell us that they haven't raped us. I come back, with King Kong Theory – I quote it –: "If we really wanted to not rape each other, we would have preferred to die or we would have managed to kill them." From the point of view of the aggressors, they come to believe that if they – we say – survive it is that they did not dislike them enough. This is why we have put forward a proposal on active consent, asking that the definition of consent and, as a result, the definition of "violation adapts to social demands, to reality; that we differentiate what is sexuality from sexual domination, because they are very different things. We need to never again find a feeling like the first in La Manada and that victims of sexual violence are not left unprotected and suffering secondary victimization, and also institutional. Because consent evolves with societies, because consent can be withdrawn at any time and any circumstance and because consent is active or not, we invite the State to the 21st century in questions of sexual freedom, as Belgium, Iceland or, later on, Portugal have done. Montse Pineda, of the National Council of Dones of Catalonia, said, and with great strength: "The rapist is you. So let's legislate it. And the same way that stereotypes, taboos, discrimination and all forms of violence against women condition our lives, we also suffer the double silence when it comes to repression, and today is a good day to remember it. There are hundreds of cases in history, from republican press in front of the franchise to deportations to the concentration camp. The woman has always suffered double victimization: for women and for ideology. Sexual terror has served a lifetime to dominate women's lives, as Nerea Barjola says, and has swept away our bodies as a political and war machine. Today, in the 21st century, in the heart of Europe, we have political pressures, we have political exiles, and we also wanted to claim them in this monogram on guaranteeing the rights of women, because to all discriminations we add the repression of the Spanish State to our companies. To the injustice of your enterprise or of your exiles we add the injustice of your oblivion, and we are angry, unworthy and concerned, and for this reason this proposal and also all this monogram goes for you, esteemed. [[Greetings.]] We have made a battery of proposals from all spheres to make a global point: woman of the rural and maritime world, woman and sport, co-education, feminist perspective, moves, firefighters, rural agents, gender impact in health, culture, male violence, migrant women, labour and economic rights, feminist urbanism..., in short, a cross-sectional look at public policies in the key of gender. But we also wanted, therefore, to make a motion for a resolution in which we are talking about those spaces that have been masculinized. And we have done so because it is important and the symbolism of grouping measures certainly helps us to identify what we miss even as society: that, the same way that the woman broke into the labor market, the man has to enter private and curative space. All two decisions are political, they are just and they are complementary; if not, we will not get out of them. That's why the world of research, enterprise, sport, the rural and maritime world, all those spaces that have been vetoed by us for centuries and that we are now perhaps in a more discreet way, are some of our priorities, without forgetting us, as I said a while ago, that masculine spaces also belong to us and that women want to be revalued and mixed. This monogram is special, and it is, among other things, because you are a member of the Parliament of Donations that we did in July and that somehow led and monitored the council. From that joint effort, these motions for resolutions. And of all the proposals, one together, of all the groups, precisely to make it clear that, before the fight against inequality and discrimination, the women prioritize the consensus and put in value what we agree on. I don't have much time, but I'd like to take advantage of it to give thanks to all the women you've worked for, the council's companies, but also the Parliament's workers, who worked hard during the Women's Parliament, to all the companies of all the parliamentary groups, to the women of the Bureau of Parliament... with many of them we disagree, and very much, in many questions, and, unfortunately, wanted to give thanks to all of you. Finally, I would like to return to Virginie Despentes, and I would like to take advantage of her theory, especially to the Socialists and Units Group for Progress, because it is uncomfortable and makes us rethink our motherhood, sexuality, and also prostitution, from a politically incorrect but very interesting place. And I take this opportunity to announce that we will oppose its point 7, not because we are not against trafficking in persons for the purpose of sexual exploitation, but because we do not want to engage sexual workers in defencelessness and total illegality. So I ended up with a few words that I am saying to myself and that, of course, I ask all of us, also from King Kong Theory: "The ideal of the white woman, seductive but not whore, well married but not annulled, hard-working but not successful in not overshadowing her husband, but first not obsessed with food, who is keeping young forever without letting herself be disfigured by aesthetic surgery, sea realized but not sheltered by the bowlers or the school fingers, good teacher of the house but not traditional ministre, but cultured but less than a man, this happy white woman who implants all of us before the noses, the one to whom we should make the effort to assemble, except that he has a look to kill himself, he does not at all, at all. I'm convinced it doesn't exist. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.244.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the turn of Congresswoman Beatriz Silva. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.245.0	Good afternoon, Members of Parliament, Members of the National Council of Donations of Catalonia. Unregulated capitalism harms women's lives. This is what Kristen Ghodsee is trying to demonstrate in her gender studies, which has analysed how the deregulation of capitalist economies has ended up punishing women more, but especially the poorest. Women who are at the peak of income distribution suffer less. But when factors such as social class and race are at stake, women need policies of redistribution and social protection in order not to suffer the bruteest form of discrimination and violence. The Socialists i Units per Avançar Parliamentary Group has tabled ten motions for resolutions that seek to focus on the most vulnerable groups of women; also on the policies that Catalonia needs to protect women living in the most extreme forms of inequality, those that do not occupy the headlines, of which we speak very little in this Parliament. Women represent the bulk of people who charge less than a thousand euros a month in Catalonia; they are seven_of_each_ten. Most work in the worst-paid sectors. 84_per_cent are waitresses, administrative employees or work in the domestic service, especially by taking care of children and dependent persons. The vast majority of the domestic labour force is women, many of whom are of immigrant origin, who work without social security contributions and for salaries which in many cases do not exceed EUR 343_. They are also women who are exposed to sexual abuse and assault because of their situation of total vulnerability. We don't know how many there are. Last November, the social security system for female domestic workers in Catalonia had accounted for a little over sixty_ thousand. However, according to ILO, there could be about 200,000, because the majority remain in the submerged economy. For these women, we're doing very little. Despite the fact that the Labour Inspectorate in Catalonia has almost full competence, from the last available memoir it appears that it did not perform any actions concerning female domestic workers during the entire period covered, a whole year. It is not even clear that the social courts have been asked once for prior permission to enter a home in the case of carers or domestic workers. It is difficult to find an explanation for this total abandonment. We also don't know how many women sleep on the street. It is a collective that has been growing, but no specific resources or programmes have been created to address them. They are women who prefer to sleep in the shallow, because of the fear and lack of intimacy that represent shelters that are designed for men. The causes why these women end up on the street are part of one of the motions for resolutions that we will vote on this afternoon: the inability to access housing after a couple break-up, gender-based violence and a labour market that excludes them. About 52_percent of these women have suffered physical violence and 48_percent have attempted to commit suicide. They're women we've left on the street with no alternative. Another group that faces extreme precariousness and on which we have wanted to focus again is that of women who are alone in charge of the household. According to statistics, 43_percent of single-maritime families live in Catalonia under the poverty line, women who face job instability, who live with their sons and daughters re-housed in rooms or in sub-dwellings where there are humidity, where there is lack of light and sometimes also basic services such as water and electricity. The rate of child poverty in these households rises to 52_per_cent. One_of_each_four of these women admits that she has stopped buying medicines because she can't pay for them, and seven_of_each_ten have been forced to reduce food costs in the day-to-day. What we want to highlight here today is that in Catalonia poverty has a woman's face. This poverty also has the face of older women, those who have pensions below five hundred euros and who triple the number of men who are in the same situation. My colleague Eva Granados stressed on Tuesday that we also want to make visible women who suffer male violence and who do not have services to care for them because our network reaches only one_of_each_ten women who are estimated to be victims of gender-based violence. For this reason, we would like to see no further postponement of the Catalan Pact against Macho Violence and, as has already been done in the Congress of Deputies, accompanied by resources to ensure that its measures do not remain on a list of good wishes. We would also like to focus on the thousands of women who feed the sex industry in Catalonia, who arrive victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation networks to meet a demand that is not covered here. It is no coincidence that these women come from poor countries and not from Sweden or Norway. This is because living conditions for women have improved sufficiently in some countries so that they are not pushed to one of the cruelest forms of violence women suffer in the world. We will vote in favour of most of the proposals put forward by the government groups, and we welcome the fact that they include part of the demands that have been coming out of this legislature. As my colleague Eva Granados said, we hope that this time they will move to reality and that the Government will do what Parliament agrees. It does not seem to us to be a good sign that they insist on committing themselves to creating only four new specialized care services to care for and recover victims of macho violence when last week this Parliament approved that there should be eight. We will also vote in favour of many proposals put forward by the People's and Citizens' Party. Socialist MPs yesterday valued the possibility of not doing so, because they felt that it was to endorse a list of good purposes, when in those places where they govern with the support of Vox it has not even been possible to support statements against macho violence, on the occasion of the 25th of November. In this regard, I would like to point out that it is not true what Mrs Roldán said on Tuesday and today, Mrs Noemi de la Calle, in the sense that Catalonia is the only autonomous community that has not deployed the comprehensive forensic assessment units provided for in the State Pact against Gender Violence. Another is Madrid, where the People's Party and Citizens not only have not deployed the comprehensive forensic assessment units, but have not even executed the money transferred by the Gender Violence Pact in 2019. We think that before proposing here a new law to claim something that is already contemplated by law, they would have to start by fulfilling where they govern and deploy, for example, the comprehensive forensic assessment units in Madrid. We will also support a large part of the proposals of the Catalunya Group in Comú Puem and the CUP. And I'm finishing up. The feminist movement firmly believes that patriarchy is not an inexorable situation. Researchers such as Linda Williams or Angela Davis, mentioned at the beginning of this plenary session by Councilwoman Budó, but also by MP Natalia Sánchez, have studied as slavery in the United States, in its total dehumanization, ended up equalizing the situation of men and women. When the African American population managed to free themselves, the former slaves were related in terms of equality with their companions, they did not feel that they had to take care of the care or be subjected. Therefore, it was they who opened the way to feminism in the 1920s, claiming with their music the right to enjoy sex and freedom in every sense. We never talk about this because, just as history is dominated by men, it also gives much more value to what white women do, because, as I said at the beginning of my intervention, the fight against inequality between men and women is intrinsically linked to the social class and to race. We will not move forward if we apply the sorority of brotherhood between women only to those we consider our equals. Sorority involves thinking about women who work as caregivers, those who sleep on the street, those who come from poorer countries looking for a better life and end up in networks of sexual exploitation. Sorority is to fight so that all women do not have to accept what we do not want for our mothers, sisters or daughters; it is to stop thinking about some women like the others and think about all of us like ourselves. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.246.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. All the same, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is the return of Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.247.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. We live in a patriarchal society, a society that traverses us with this patriarchy to all, regardless of what we think politically. A social emergence caused by masculinism with rapes, assaults, rapes, denials, retaliations of rights, feminicides, which we watch daily. You have a new case, another herd. A new group of men, a rape, a girl, to Nou Barris, Barcelona. Not one more. « Only yes, it is. [[Greetings.]] All these survivors, also those who are not, ask us to exercise responsibility in order to get together to get the maximum number of public policies that guarantee us effective equality, which is what we share, which is what we want, which is what we do and what we work for. Dimarts la Montse Pineda, the second vice president of the National Council of the Dones of Catalonia, to whom we greeted again today, proposed a double repte to the parliamentary groups. We are a courageous politician to end patriarchy and we do not use this monographic ple on the rights of women to enlarge the political differences that we have on this issue or on others, but to reach consensus that guarantees these rights. We have taken the opposite; we are taking it and, in this sense, our parliamentary group is proposing courageous political proposals to work together to end patriarchy – I will talk about our proposals here a little bit – but we are also generous to value and vote on the proposals of all the other parliamentary groups. That is why we will support almost all the proposals put forward, we will only abstain in some. In some of the support groups to the Government, because – I have to say – all the presentations seem rather inadequate to us, but in some of the issues, because of the delicate nature of these issues, we cannot vote in favour for much of our willingness to do so; we are talking about themes of male violence or we are talking about assumptions and, therefore, we will abstain from them. We will also abstain in some resolutions of other groups, for discrepancies in some specific proposal of some point which they include in these resolutions. We will also abstain – and in this I would like to explain – in a resolution of the Socialist Group on the ‘trade with a view to sexual exploitation', not because we do not firmly believe that it can be combated with a course of violence, with police action in the framework of international treaties such as those of Palermo, the ‘trade, obviously, avoiding that the burden of proof falls on the witnesses of the victims, but because the proposal they make is a little confusing about what they mean by 'a band, but above all we cannot vote on it and we will abstain from it because they propose a measure a little extreme. They propose to repeal all Decree 112/2010, public performances and recreational activities. It is the decree that spreads Law 11/2009 and that affects issues as diverse as the mechanisms of authorization and lawfulness, security, times of all kinds of recreational activities or public shows, concerts, activities in the street, shows, festivals... I am sure it must be a mistake, but what they are today voting is asking us to repeal all this decree and it has no sense. We would therefore not vote against the proposal, we believe that all of it is a matter of diversity and we are taking the challenge of building consensus. But he also gave them political leadership and, therefore, proposed – and courageous –: feminism is and must be political positioning; positioning on which policies it is necessary to ensure the right of all to advance towards effective equality. Therefore, politics. In this sense, we make political proposals on the basis of which we believe that, from the same National Council of the Dones in the July plenary, there have been outstanding issues, which we want to reinforce. We propose to confront and block the pace of negationist speeches from male rapes to institutions; they will not pass. We propose to defend the diversity of feminism. We propose to address and identify the causalities of gender inequalities; feminicides are only the tip of the iceberg of a system of patriarchy that undermined women, and to fight against this system that could revise sector to sector, policy to policy and change all the sexist and and androcentric patterns that support it. We propose to regain the central role of the Catalan Institute of Donations, to provide it with funding – which is what it needs – and that it be the Parliament that ratifies the presidency, and that has an essential tool for all, such as assumptions with a gender impact analysis. We propose a public contract with a gender perspective, where equality clauses are mandatory. We propose guarantees of political and social participation for all women; it is intolerable that migrant women who have lived and worked in Catalonia for years do not have the right to vote or act or pass. We know that they do not only report from the Generality, but we also have to fight from this Parliament. Certainly, lords and lords of the PSC, let's repeal the law bite; it's also a question of gender. We must ensure that every social organization, every party, every institution guarantees parity and deploys its equality plans and condition any relationship between the Administration and private individuals that they have with these equality plans. We propose to ensure active co-education, not just children and children who are vaginas together in classes, which obviously would only be missing! This should be obvious, but there should be a promotion of the values of feminism at school, of respect for diversity, of equal opportunities, of affective education. We propose to move towards a feminist economy, an economy where the accumulation of assets and capital is not only a priority, but also a central place for reproduction and cures; to recognise the monetary value of this sector as well, to bet on these jobs, always minor, always invisible. We propose a specific plan by the Government to fight against women's precariousness in the effective labour market and conciliation policies, and this does not mean only the themes of time. If we don't have a thing, if we don't have work, if we don't have basic sub-administrations, if we don't have health, of course we don't have children – of course we don't have children; 2018 was the year with a lower birth rate. Right, right as real and effective reconciliation policies, and birthright, if they want. But also, for those who don't want to have it. Guarantees. That we can decide the same women, that it is vis-à-vis respect and that it is impossible to make informed decision in public health so much to throw in front of an embassy with guarantees, counsel, as not to do, and today in Catalonia this basic right is not guaranteed for all the women living in Catalonia; there are no evictions by conditions of papers, absolutely administrative, and it is an essential sexual right. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we rejoice that for what we seem to share an analysis of the fact of living in a patriarchal society, of the need to question men, of impregnating all policies of feminism and of taking all pleas, that we have a law, Law 5/2008, of fighting against masculinist rapes, and that we also share that we must continue to advance in this law and, therefore, that it would be good for you to pull forward the enlargement that we have recently registered as a parliamentary group to include institutional rapes, digital rapes and consent in this law. If we really share all these priorities, which are more resources than the state pact; what is needed is to ensure that the National Commission for Coordinated Intervention against Masclist Violence has functions, that it is provided for by the law; that we guarantee a new model of approach to sexual violence against children and adolescents – urgent, too – and that they regulate territorial circuits, SIADs, and allow for a recovery of survivors. Only thus, actively fighting against the emergence, the emergence of masculinism, patriarchy, and deploying public policies towards effective equality will we achieve what we all want in this hemisphere: equal opportunities and a society free of masculinist violence. Addressing the violence, therefore, of foundations, of achieving a society free of patriarchy, which is what was asked and for which we have to work. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.248.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.249.0	Well, good afternoon. We want to begin our intervention by giving thanks to the National Council of Donors and to all the collectors who have made an effort and who have shown that they are examples of perseverance and struggle to achieve that every day we live in a fairer society. Masclist rapes are the fundamental tool that patriarchy has to perpetuate inequality, hierarchical relationships and the power of men over women. We are not talking about problems on the margins of the system, or specific problems on the side of the pair, but about a structural and systemic problem. Precisely for this reason we need strong answers, and that is why we have chosen forbearance in those motions for resolution that could become a toast to the sun. Inequality and the poor are a reality every time more punishing; businesses have chosen to gain competitiveness precisely at the expense of our working conditions, and all indicators, systematically, show a more unfavourable situation for women: less income, more risk of social exclusion and poorer. This inequality also translates into inequality in the distribution of healing, aging and dependency work, and this particularly affects working-class women, who have a double workload, paid and unpaid, at home and at work, precisely what they do is to sustain life. The economic dependence that this inequality supposes generates economic dependence and aggravates the situations of violence, and deepens in which it is known as the global chain of cures, since the women who provide services related to these healing jobs are mainly migrant women who have to endure situations of conflict and insecurity at work, where these situations are seen to be aggravated by their social and administrative situation. It is from this perspective that we propose measures to combat the feminization of the poor, to socialize the healing work and for the right of women to enjoy worthy lives. We propose the promotion of municipal services such as home care or clean municipal buildings, which are necessary for the reproduction and development of life. We also ask for a single network of ownership, managed and provided a hundred_per_cent public for the attention of victims of male rapes; the impulse of a social health park to care for large and dependent people, and we propose that the proposal of minimum wages, announced by the Government, of 1,239 euros per month, pass from the declared land and apply immediately on behalf of the Administration to all those workers who serve public services. We are also introducing measures to help women live in dignity in the rural world, because the progressive depopulation of the rural world and the abandonment of farms and branches has much to do with the lack of guarantees and the dignification of the conditions of women in the rural world. We are also taking steps to avoid segregation and elitism of education before conservative and mercantile policies. And finally, together with the Group of Catalonia in Communal, we have presented a proposal that deals with a broad issue, because today, two years after the entry into force of the Law of Universalization of Health Care, we find ourselves in a context where there are significant gaps and administrative obstacles in the health care system of primary care for migrant women without a health-care target. The current standard, starting with the Law of Foreign Affairs, which incorporates racist and ethnocentrist parameters or the requirement of fixed domicile control, or criteria closed to interpret the urgency or fact of not considering the voluntary interruption of pregnancy as an urgency that today, in Catalonia, is vulnerable to salvation. In this sense, we propose that universal health care be provided without exclusions and that it is transferred immediately, by means of an instruction that health care related to pregnancy, part, postpart or voluntary interruption of pregnancy is carried out independently of the administrative situation of the pregnant person. And lastly, and respect the proposal put forward by the Socialist Party respects to our traffic what we want to make manifest, which we want to make clear, that trafficking in persons and prostitution are different issues and have to be approached with concrete public policies for each phenomenon. Where these two phenomena have been enshrined in legislation, such as in Sweden, Northern Ireland or France, the consequences – I have ended up, President – have been harmful, have been harmful in all respects: "Trafficking has not been reduced, prostitution has not been reduced and it has been translated into worse conditions for the women who exercise it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.250.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia has the word Mrs Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.251.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... well, in five_minutes it's going to be very complicated to explain all our proposals. What I do want to launch is the meaning of our vote on the proposals of the other groups. We believed that we had to be generous, that we had to overcome and give the approval to that challenge that Montse Pineda presented to us the other day, and we will vote in about 75_per_cent in favour of the proposals of other groups, and the rest is that we cannot because they are too partisan and, therefore, what we said, if we are too partisan of this issue, if we try to patrimony it, we are wrong in the diagnosis and the measures are no longer effective. Having said that, we have based five basic proposals, one that was about women's policies in the twenty-first century, where we proposed to move forward on that challenge that women should not be superwomen and that the duplicate roles that we have now become shared, right? , and in that, because we have launched a kind of letter of commitment for all Members and all institutions since the Parliament, so to promote and to work for equality, non-discrimination, also to promote the creation of occupation, which is one of the fundamental bases, and to develop in a more complete way since the strategic plan of gender equality policies 2019-2022, which so far has a lot of budgetary indecretion and which makes them, logically not effective because without budget it is difficult for the measures to reach a good port. In a second place, what I put before you the other day, the fundamental axis for us is the first gap, isn't it? , which is the lack of women's independence, the lack of economic independence that prevents them from developing all their vital projects. For us it is to guarantee women's labour rights. We have done so in different blocks, on behalf of others, i.e. implementing the anonymous or blind curriculum, which sounds a little strange, but that we from the ministry promoted it, and the implementation data were magnificent, because 30_percent more women's recruitment was credited, and 30_percent more recruitment of people over 50 years of age; tax incentives for women's recruitment after maternity; aid for entrepreneurs and self-employed women, through the Institut Català de Finanzas; also urge the Government of Spain to extend to twelve months the flat rate for the autonomous or even those women who want to be self-employed but are also more vulnerable, as victims of gender violence; measures also for rural women, who suffer the triple gap, which is gender, poverty and very difficult access to the digital world. Then we have also focused on the second axis, which we understand also serves to build that new, freer, fairer and more equitable society, which is education in equality and free of stereotypes, not only for minors but also in other social spheres, equal, free and able to do all that and all the challenges we face, and goals. For this we have opted for a virtual school, for the promotion of STEM disciplines, which fail so much in women; for codes of self-regulation of the image of women, not only in advertising but also in the public media, and the administrations themselves when they carry out campaigns in this regard. We have also committed to improving and proposing measures on conciliation and co-responsibility, we will not, that is, the challenge of shared roles, if we do not implement measures of conciliation and co-responsibility, always with incentives, I repeat, always with incentives, our maximum brand of the house. A further recovery of investment in children's schools from zero to three years, which the Government of the Generalitat decided to withdraw and which, of course, is a difficulty. The bet on telework, which we started from the ministry in the public administration and it worked very well, and now I think the government has the opportunity to do it and implement it and expand it throughout the public administration. And measures against gender-based violence – which I believe we all agree on – which is the bitterest and cruelest face of inequality in women, right? Measures that are, and are, pending development, in particular the regulatory development of laws on the eradication of gender-based violence. Also the measures and forensic assessment units; in short, protocols, everything that helps to fight this scourge and that is currently the most important cancer of inequality that women live in. If we want a freer, better, fairer society, if it is not egalitarian it will not be.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.252.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. [[Naomi from Sifré Street asks to speak.]] Yeah, say'm, street lady.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.253.0	By contradictions of the deputy Silva.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.254.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.255.0	Look, Congresswoman Silva, regarding forensic assessment units in Madrid, you are very uninformed. The Community of Madrid has not one or two, but seventy-one psychosocial teams formed, among others, by psychologists and social workers attached to the courts of violence against women in order to assess the potential risks of the victims. And may the People's Party correct me if I'm wrong, because they were actually ruling them, in 2018, these specialists made a total of 2,500 reports. But if what concerns you is the name I will reassure you, because in 2020, when the Institute of Legal Medicine comes into operation, these units, which already exist, will be called forensic assessment units. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-19-4603.256.0	Thank you. We will begin by voting on the motions for resolutions submitted by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Crida Constituent. Let's start, so... [[Funnel veils]] – Member of the Commission – we shall begin by voting on the CUP's motion for a resolution No. 1. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 113 votes to 17, with 17 abstentions. And we're voting number two now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 126 votes to four, with no abstentions. And now we're voting number three. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 4 votes in favour, 83 against and 43 abstentions. And we vote at 4. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution number 4 was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 64 against, 53 abstentions, and one Member present who did not vote. We are now voting on resolution No. 5. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 5 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent was adopted by 89 votes to five, with 36 abstentions. And now we are voting on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Socialist and Unity Parliamentary Group to move forward, we are voting on number 1. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 67 votes to 62, with no abstentions. And we're voting number two now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously, with 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously, with 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're voting number four. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 4 was adopted by 69 votes in favour, against and 61 abstentions. And now we're voting number five. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 123 votes to 7, with 7 abstentions. And now we're voting number six. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 6 was adopted unanimously: 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we're voting number seven now. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 7 was rejected by 21 votes to 102, with 7 abstentions. And now we're voting at 8. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 89 votes to 40, with one Member not voting. We're voting number nine now. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 9 was adopted unanimously: 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we vote on number 10 and then on the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Let's start with the first motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we're voting number two now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 113 votes to 17, with 17 abstentions. And now we're voting number four. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 124 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And now we're voting number five. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 5 was adopted unanimously: 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we are now voting on Motion for a resolution No. 6. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 47 votes to 62, with 21 abstentions. And now we're voting number 7, with the built-in error correction. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 129 votes to none, with 1 abstention. And now we vote on number 8. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 129 votes to none, with 1 abstention. And now we're voting number 9. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 129 votes in favour, against, abstention and one Member present who did not vote. And we are now voting on resolution No. 10. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. Let's start with the first one. The vote begins. It was adopted by 114 votes to 16, with no abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 68 votes in favour, against and 62 abstentions. And we're voting number three now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 47 votes in favour, 79 against and 4 abstentions. And now we're voting number four. The vote begins. Number 4 was adopted by 74 votes to 39, with 17 abstentions. And now we're voting number five. The vote begins. Number 5 was adopted by 73 votes to 40, with 17 abstentions. And now we're voting number six. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 28 votes to 102, with no abstentions. And we're voting now at 6a– 6a. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 73 votes to 57, with no abstentions. And now we're voting number seven. The vote begins. Number 7_has been approved unanimously: 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we vote on number 8. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 102 against and 17 abstentions. And we now vote on the motion for a resolution presented jointly for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomão and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Crida Constituent. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 47 votes to 82, with no abstentions. And we are voting now on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. Let's start with the first one. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 122 votes to none, with 8 abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 66 votes to 57, with 7 abstentions. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. This resolution was adopted by 72 votes to 40, with 17 abstentions. And let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Let's start with the first one. The vote begins. This proposal was adopted by 126 votes to four, with no abstentions. And now we're voting number 2, with the built-in error correction. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 90 votes in favour, against and 40 abstentions. And we're voting number three now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 72 votes to 57, with no abstentions. We are now voting on the joint motion for a resolution for all parliamentary groups and sub-groups. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 130 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Perlongats applause.]] Thank you. Keep going. We shall continue to vote on the motions for resolutions submitted jointly by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà. We are voting for the proposal for a joint resolution of these two parliamentary groups number 1. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 128 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we're voting number two now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 126 votes to four, with no abstentions. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 122 votes to 7, with 7 abstentions. And now we're voting number four. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 112 votes to 16, with 16 abstentions. We're voting number four now. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He lost, the 5th – 5th. It was adopted by 126 votes to four, with no abstentions. And now we're voting number six. The vote begins. It was adopted by 90 votes to four, with 36 abstentions. We're voting number seven now. The vote begins. This resolution was adopted unanimously: 130 votes in favour, none against and no abstentions. We're voting number eight now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're voting number 9. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 123 votes to 7, with 7 abstentions. And now we vote on number 10. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 130 votes to none, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 11. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 123 votes to 7, with 7 abstentions. And now we vote on number 12. The vote begins. This resolution was adopted by 130 votes to none, with no abstentions. And we're voting now at 13. The vote begins. It has also been approved unanimously: 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We are voting now, finally, on the motions for resolutions submitted by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. We vote for the first resolution. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we're voting number two now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 48 votes to 65, with 17 abstentions. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 40 votes to 62, with 28 abstentions. And now we're voting number four. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 109 votes to 21, with 21 abstentions. And finally, we vote on Motion for a resolution No. 5. The vote begins. This resolution was adopted by 61 votes to 60, with 8 abstentions. There are no more proposals for a resolution; therefore, let me give the compliment... Say. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, It was already added..., the vote that we manually added this morning now is already incorporated into the system; therefore, it was recorded. Thanks to all the parliamentary groups for this plenary, and especially to the Members who have worked intensively on these motions for resolutions, and thanks also, above all, to the National Council of Donations for their pocket, their effort and their collaboration. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats. Crits of "Visca la lutta feminista!.]] Just falling to wish them good holidays, good year's entrance. The session's up.
