ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.1.0	Good afternoon. Deputies, deputies, please... let's start the session. The list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is enclosed in the folder. According to Article 164 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated tomorrow, to the gods of the morning, as according to the order of the day of this plenary session. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] I would also like to inform you that, as a compliment to what the Parliament's 111/XII motion establishes, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and policies for the gathering of migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization for Migration, 1,246 people have died in the Mediterranean since the month of their generation. [[General debate on the recognition and guarantee of the rights of women]] [[255-00009/12]] Let's move on to the first point of the order of the day, which is the general debate on the recognition and guarantee of the rights of women. In accordance with Article 156 of the Rules of Procedure, this debate will be governed by the provisions of Articles 154 and 155 of the Rules of Procedure and the sequence approved by the Board of Spokespersons. In accordance with Rule 201.1 of the Rules of Procedure and in agreement with the Board of Spokespersons, a representative of the National Council of Donations of Catalonia will speak in plenary, in accordance with the object of this general debate. For this reason, and in the first place, I give the word to Ms. Montse Pineda, vice president second to the National Council of the Dones of Catalonia. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.2.0	Thank you, President. Bona tarda, very honorable President Torrent, very honorable President Torra, honorable advisers, advisers, illustrious deputies, other workers of the Parliament of Catalonia and members of the Government and, finally, good tarda, esteemed companions of the National Council of Dones of Catalonia. It is an honor and a rep·lectu to present me in front of you to represent the National Council of the Dones of Catalonia and to open the monographic debate on the recognition and guarantee of the rights of women. It's an honor, but above all it's a privilege. On July 1, 2019, I entered the hemisphere a little before the five. I was just about to start the Parliament of the Dones. We wanted to greet Adriana, Naomi, Anna, Jenn, Bea, Susanna, Natalia, Hope ; were the deputies who had made it possible. I hugged the coordinators of the council's groups, who had worked with the entities, so much..., to be in that Parliament of the Dones, with documents worthy and full of demands. I looked at the hemicle, like the look now, I felt an infinite pride in seeing so many women rewrite the story. We've been affixing Beijing's replete, which in a few months is going to be twenty years. Twenty years full of history, twenty years full of demands and shared struggles, twenty years of institutional feminism. It was a symbolic ple, but at the same time tangible in its proposals. We were hundreds of subversive bodies in a space that is not our symbolically. The Nuria paraphrased in his intervention, remember, Virginia Woolf: that the Parliament was like a private room; a room, I would say, that every time we are less inhospitable, that we do not devote ourselves to professional politics, and that every time we are more our own. It is true that Parliament was not the most representative of the world. We were all very white, with little functional diversity, very determined social class and with many, many privileges. We didn't want to fool anyone; it reflects our society, which still feels racist, classy and male. So we have a lot of work to do. On July 1st they played five and a half, and my first words in this Faristol were: "Companies, we're already here. Where are the ladies? We often ask each other. The ladies are here to stay. Let's look at each other, 'cause we're not gonna take a step back. And now, four months later, I say again: we're back, we're back here, because we haven't left, we've been working to make this monogram possible with all of you. We've already told you: we've come to stay. And we'll tell you again, we won't take a step back. Because patriarchy discriminates against us, makes us cover less to do the same, makes us not be able to give birth or abort as we say, makes us not have the same possibilities, generates models of pairs and family that oppress us, rapes us, leaves us trapped in the poor, kills us. And that's why we're here. Because it is necessary to transform all institutions, and Parliament is one of the institutions that needs to be transformed, in order to be able to face patriarchy, to the heteropatriarchal system. The sociopolitical structure that surely generates the most patience, pain, inequality and discrimination is patriarchy. And Parliament needs to be transformed, because that will also transform the executive part. As you recall, in the preparation of the Parliament of the Donors we found ourselves often with various logics of functioning, of ways to relate us. Nor did the standards, nor the Rules, nor the desire of entities to be able to generate different participation logics. Even sometimes it seemed like they were counterpossible. We found a small excletxa of hope, which allowed us to work folds and create us interpretive marches to change patriarchal norms. We tried to create more colliding collectivities and from there came the institutional declaration approved for all of you on July 24 and which became a joint motion for a resolution and which, as it seems, will be approved unanimously for all of you. President Carme Forcadell wrote a message from the prison saying: "I warmly welcome this initiative of the Parliament of the Dones. I hope that it is not just an act of political opportunity and that it has continuity of decision and action, because at these times it is more necessary than never women with different ideologies, with different opinions and with different life plans together and work together, because, beyond differences, we share the condition of women, and I am convinced that at one time or another in our life we have suffered discrimination, and only and exclusively because of the fact that we are. I echo the words of Mrs.Carme Forcadell, because, indeed, there are many and many women we want to work on pleas to the Parliament of the Donations. And there are many, various, women and men, who are part of this different project and who are here to work on new proposals. That's why one of my main objectives or my messages today will be, just like I did on the Day of the Parliament of Women, to see that our differences..., to be able to build a few common minimums to make a more egalitarian world. Let the entities look at you, let the women on the street look at you, let the story look at you, and therefore do not use this monogram as the party currency. We understand that you want to mark the differences, but they do not; that they do a great policy, that they do not enter into dialectic battles of which is the most feminist policy. They make proposals. They don't need more headlines than they need to fail with society. They need real measures. We need to complete the law of effective equality of women and men once and for all. There are many measures that have not been deployed, we have four years waiting for it to be done. We need the Law of Rights of Women to be implemented to eradicate male violence at once. We are 11 years old waiting for a real deployment to be made and for you to be economically endowed with dignity and for an action to be taken on this, including institutional rapes. We need you to do a real coeducation, that we have so much time in the law and that we are not able to articulate in our schools. Now we're aware that climate emergence, aren't we? ...everybody's got it. That doesn't mean we're doing anything with her, does it? I mean... but everybody's got it. But not everyone has put what they have to put because I stopped being. My speech is political, it's not technical. If you want to collect technical questions, I know that you have already been working with your resolution positions, that you are debating today and that you are voting. They have all our material, which we have given them, with all our good will, to give the Parliament of Women; there they have everything, which we can technically say. President, President Torra, Councillors and Councillors, Lords and Lords of Deputies: we have an emergence, which is that of inequalities, provoked by patriarchy, and which affect most of us to women. I repeat it, or I don't say it, do I? We have an emergence, which is abolishing patriarchy. [[Greetings.]] Ladies and gentlemen, signify everything that is wrong, everything: don't leave anything, please, because, if not, we will remind you that you haven't done it. I don't leave anything to the present government, but neither to the future governments, because this is an emergence. Equality must be a political priority, it must be a strategic line of every action that I take from then on; I take the stones that are usually thrown into the debates between you and put them all together to make the way for the evolution of patriarchy, a way to equality. They don't do rhetoric, please; we don't need it. We won't forgive you. There's too much patience because they can be rhetorical. There are fears that they are very conflicting, there are fears that they are absolutely afraid that we can divide; face it from the dignity that you have as a party, which is why we voted for them. I am not asking them about naivety, but about political consciousness, landed on what feminist practice means, and feminists believe in equality not only as a value of the future but as a political practice. We need real measures, real changes; we need social assumptions that have a gender perspective. [[Addressing the Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History]] – I look directly at it –: we need real assumptions, which have a gender perspective. We need to build a premise that doesn't legitimize inequality. And that means we're on the run. Rather than a assumption that I changed history; we want a presumption that I changed the history of inequalities and discrimination. We need to increase spending on policies of equality; we need to increase policies of equality – I say it twice because it is well collected, okay? But look at it: we plant it like expense, when, in reality, when we talk about equality policies we are talking about the best gain we have, the gain that generates the benefit of the equality of our society. We want a presupposition that follows the reversal of the future, that the laws that accompany these presuppositions have a gender perspective. It is not a formal request, no, no: we demand that this formal request be converted into a tangible fact. A tangible fact necessarily means that these laws that accompany assumptions are truly assessed from the gender perspective. It's not a technical question: it's a political question. The parties you give or support to the future premise, ensure if you like this – guarantee if you like this. And those who don't guarantee it, if they don't, do it. You've got deures for everyone, haven't you? Therefore, we need a real thorough control of the measures. Because that's not by magic: that's by elements that can really guarantee that that's what we're doing. We cannot say that we will have a presupposition and that we will increase policies or that we are doing as best as possible when mechanisms are not then articulated so that we can follow up on this element. Look, feminism is plural, it's not a fake. The richness of feminism is that it is not one, big and free, but many, various and we pass bodily, and the one who wants feminism is not in what we give, but in how we make it possible. Look, the National Council of Donations of Catalonia is a consulting and participating organization that brings together women from all over the territory, bringing together more than 425 entities. Some are women's entities that have a more traditional character, that have contributed to the welfare of thousands of women for many years, and they follow it – the entities – where the social fabric is not above. He has changed the lives of many women into many small towns and cities. We have the oldest entities in Europe. We have young and more radical social movements of our present society that, although they do not believe in the institutionalization of feminism, we have common fronts, day by day. We have distinct entities that want a Catalan feminist republic; others that because of their association with parties, are also federalists, or belong to groups that want a Spanish state that is not indivisible. We've got anarchists. There are trade union entities, employers' representatives, self-governing women's entities, businesses, entities that want to break the heteronormal discourse of fighting LGBTI to fight for equality; rural cooperation entities, associations that have special attention to women, that accompany women day by day, that fight for sexual and reproductive rights; women of migrant entities, and women who are pressing for us to decolonize our speeches and who want their political participation: they want to vote. We want you to vote. Women who remind us that women do not have the least in their rights, great women, young women, anti-capitalists, liberal businesses, but, look, what we don't have – what we don't have – are entities that deny violence against women, because we don't want them, neither the Council nor the place. [[Greetings.]] And all this..., you can imagine: this is not easy, is it? Feminism isn't easy, okay? Changing patriarchal logic is not easy, no one said it was, was it? The National Council of Donors of Catalonia in these moments has, on its political agenda, become or become an autonomous organ of the Catalan Institute of Donors, because we believe in the need for more autonomy to become a true accountability organ. We are in full debate about how to do it, and we hope that – from you – I will support us to ensure that the voices of the women's entities are where the women's entities want them to be. Politics has changed, Parliament has changed; public policies must change. Fifty-two full monograms. Three people from civil society participated only when they were present in the popular legislative initiative; they have to change this. We are the only entity that is not among this brand; they must change this. You have to give us a voice. You have to recognize us in this space, in this window. A debate on the recognition and guarantee of women means generating proposals and implies recognizing the international mark of defence of the human rights of women, starting with Cedaw and ending with the Istanbul Convention, generating autonomous accountability mechanisms. Look, there's my mist Lucia. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I don't want any more police for her, because I can go home: I don't want that for her. I want her to have what many of us have not had: a world without masculinity, that masculinism is destroyed. And how can we do that? With education. With real education measures that end with stereotypes. Our education is a failure. Lucia needs to go to health services with the guarantee that its sexual and reproductive rights are guaranteed, that if it wants to be an autonomous woman we can do it and that the policies really guarantee it, right? Look at her, because I am you – you – who have to do it. The street will, but you have to legislate because that's possible. Beijing gave us an essential _framework to take back the essential questions, to recover the transversality of the genera, to have technical instruments like the ones we have. But I don't want to finish this speech – and thank you for the generosity of giving me more time – without explaining a small story, a story that says the following: "Patriarchy is a system that attacks our existence, and it's our gain. It's the rape you don't see. Patriarchy is a system that attacks our existence. Perhaps with a little singing she sounds more like: "And our gain is violence, you see, it's feminicide, impunity for murder, it's disappearance, it's rape. And it was not my fault, neither was it from where I was, nor from what I was wearing; and it was not my fault, nor from what I was from what I was wearing. And it wasn't my fault: the rapist is you. « The rapist is you. On your account. Thank you. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.3.0	Thank you, Mrs Pineda. We continue to debate the interventions of representatives of parliamentary groups and sub-groups. And, in the first place, has the word, to fix the position of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy lady Lorraine Roldán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.4.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon. We are lucky to live in a great country like Spain. A country that has given us women the opportunity to be the protagonists of many reforms and changes that have taken place throughout our recent history. Spain is, in short, one of the best countries in the world to be born a woman, and I am personally proud of it. The Spanish Constitution of 1978 established formal equality between women and men, and since then we have been taking steps forward with the aim of full equality. During these years, there have been legislative and social changes in our country that have undoubtedly improved the situation of women in our society. But let us not be fooled: there is still much to be done. It would be a mistake to fall into conformism. There are still many areas and situations where this equality is not real, and which has one of the most serious and dramatic consequences in macho violence. Still many women have to overcome a career of obstacles that for men appears almost always without fewer barriers. But, look, although some are constantly looking for what divides us, I am convinced that, if there is something that unites all Catalans, all the parliamentary groups, all the Members who are here today, it is the fight for equal opportunities between women and men. Therefore, in this very special and necessary plenary session, we reiterate all our commitment, with the urgency of changing the conditions that still produce inequalities between men and women in the various fields: in social, economic, cultural, educational... And go ahead, of course, our commitment to work tirelessly so that not one woman has less rights, less freedom or less opportunities simply because of being so. Today we also want to claim the key role of feminism in the fight for equality between women and men, for the same rights, opportunities and freedoms. But we also want to claim that there is not a single way of feeling feminist, and that the fight for equality does not go from slogans, from freedoms, from effective public policies, and from values such as respect, tolerance and freedom. Because we all have to wage the battle for equality, and effective feminism is needed, which really transforms women's lives. And this happens, first of all, by recognizing that there will never be equality without freedom. Freedom to be and freedom to do. Many times they have spoken for us. Too many times we have been told how to be a woman, how we have to dress, how we have to act, and now they also intend to tell us how we have to be feminists. For every time someone speaks for us, every time someone appropriates our voice, it does not make us more free, but quite the contrary. And the worst is that the horizon of real and effective equality moves a little further and further away, when this happens. And it's just that feminism... [[Greetings.]] Feminism is a cause of all, it is no one's heritage. Its defence is to be welcomed by all those who are committed to equality between women and men. In Spain there are parties that have worked conscientiously to try to make feminism an exclusive and exclusive flag, but we are not going to allow anyone to appropriate a cause that belongs to everyone. There are millions of women who are waiting for answers, and who want an inclusive, open and cross-cutting feminism; a feminism that sets out proposals so that all women can develop us on equal rights without demanding any card more than that of aspire to a better society. That is why we want a feminism that does not exclude men, because this is a battle of all; we cannot ignore half of society to wage the battle of equal rights and duties. That is why I want to show from here also all our commitment to incorporate men into this struggle instead of seeing them as insurmountable enemies. [[Greetings.]] In the fight for equality, the gender war is already part of the past. We need the whole of society to be involved by pooling the search for equal rights and opportunities. We are not going to allow this struggle that, I insist, is of everyone's heritage. We will not abandon the defense of feminism in the hands of those who believe they have the monopoly. In the struggle for our rights – women's rights – there is absolutely no one left. And we can't let anyone talk about us either. In the 21st century paternalism no, solidarity among women yes. Women have not shaken the tutelage of men to fall into the tutelage of other women who claim to speak on our behalf. [[Greetings.]] And, look, I'm convinced that our mothers, that our grandmothers, that the pioneers and the first feminists didn't become feminists for other women to speak on their behalf, did so to be free citizens. So we are not going to accept lessons of feminism from anyone, and even less from those who are pushing many women away from a struggle that concerns us all. Women do not need a change of guardianship, we need to be free from the prejudices of others, of all others, because feminism is not to say'speakers', it is to change policies. In Spain there are millions of women who do not feel represented by parties who believe that they are feminists, i.e. spokespersons, but rather by the concrete achievements achieved such as the various equality laws, or the increase in paternity permits, or the deduction, for example, in the IRPF of EUR 1 000 per year for working mothers who have children from zero to three years so that they can go to school. Because equality is not achieved by creating confrontation between citizens, it is achieved by effective public policies that remove the barriers that exist to equal opportunities between women and men; public policies that correct the structural problems that cause inequality, which are, therefore, problems in the labour market, reconciliation, inequality in health, the lack of children's schools from zero to three years, the impossibility of forming a family without affecting the professional career, or so many other issues, as we will see throughout this plenary session. Look, feminism is more necessary than ever in Catalonia, of course, in all of Spain and all of Europe, because we still have a long way to go until we achieve real equality. At first I said yes, that we have already made a lot of progress, but there is still a marked inequality in women's opportunities and evidence of a greater difficulty for women to achieve their goals. As long as full equality is not real, feminism will be the main weapon to give that battle. We must therefore address the inequalities that still exist in the various areas. For example, in the workplace, one of the areas where inequalities are most structural and where women suffer most precariously. In Catalonia, the unemployment rate remains higher for women: in women, a 12.7_per_cent, compared to 10.9_per_cent in men, according to data from the 2018 EPA. It also highlights the greater weight of part-time work in women: a rate of 23.2_per_cent compared to 7.9_per_cent in men, according to the report of the Workers' Committees « Les conditions de vida i travail de les dones( 2019). Not to mention the bloody gender pay gap that affects the vital development of so many women in Catalonia. This gap in Catalonia is 23.4_per_cent, which means that women charge an average of six_ thousand_ euros less than men. Thus, while men earn an average of EUR 27,500_ per year, women charge EUR 21,000_ per year, according to the latest figures in the equality report prepared by the Department of Labour. The gender gap is also perpetuated during old age, because, of course, pensions are a consequence of working life. We therefore have lower pensions for women. According to the study published by the Third Sector Table in January 2019 on the pension system in Spain, women earn an average of 34_per_cent less pension than men, mainly for this reason, because they have worked less than men and under worse paid conditions. Employment policies are therefore not enough if they are not accompanied by resources and social measures that allow and favour the reconciliation and care of children, such as the gratuitousness of children's schools, which is one of the outstanding subjects in Catalonia that the various governments of the Generalitat have not been able to prioritize in recent years. Another area where inequalities also persist in Catalonia is in health. According to the report « Les dones a Catalunya 2019 of the Institut Català de les Dones, 41_per_cent of women suffer from some chronic disease compared to 35_per_cent of men. Moreover, in many cases, the oversaturation of tasks and the responsibility to carry out the home have a direct relation to the worsening of mental health, which is more pronounced in women. This is also shown by the data of the Health Survey of Catalonia of 2018, of the Department of Health, which gives us worrying data: 11,2_per_cent of women aged 15 and over in Catalonia suffer from major or severe depression, compared to 3,9_per_cent of men. On the other hand, an alarming and worrying reality that we have already had the opportunity to debate in other sessions in this Chamber is poverty; the poverty that has been conquered in Catalonia, but more particularly in the case of women. According to the Idescat, according to data from the Generalitat, while for them the rate of the risk of poverty is 18.4_per_cent, that of them is 24.1_per_cent, or what is the same, almost one_of_each_four women is at risk of social exclusion. This year, on Mother's Day, Save the Children recalled that families made up of single mothers with dependent children face a greater risk of poverty and social exclusion. In addition to the difficulty of reconciling family and work, the lack of employment opportunities is a major condition for these households, which are made up of women only. We are talking about mothers who have to do what is impossible to cope with the responsibilities of the home, with a great deal of difficulty in finding a job, in reconciling family and working life. We also want no woman to have to choose between her career and her family. Women know what it's like to have to work harder to get the same opportunities as men. And many juggling to reconcile professional and family life. And no one escapes that it is mainly women who take on the tasks of family care. It is therefore urgent to put in place measures so that we do not have to give up taking steps in our professional career by wanting to form a family or to care for our relatives. Because many not only deliver much of their working life during pregnancy and maternity, but also care for dependents. This double effort has to be rewarded twice with measures that make it easier for those who have it more difficult; with effective public policies that allow us to exercise the co-responsibility that our society demands so much. In this struggle they will always find us, and precisely this was one of the first measures that Citizens presented when they arrived at Congress: to extend the duration of paternity permits. Another aspect that should also be highlighted in order to advance equality is to put education at the centre. In this sense, child education is key, it is when boys and girls begin to define how they relate to each other, and the examples that follow these ages can condition their adult relationships. Therefore, our duty is formal in terms of equal rights and duties, equal opportunities and aspirations, opportunities and goals. But education on equal terms is not only done through the family, but also through the educational system. For example, according to a 2017 UOC study on academic sexism..., it reveals that there are still girls who leave technology studies because they undervalue their abilities. That's why we need equal education, women's references in all fields, in science, in social, in sports... We can't tell our girls that they can't be everything they want to be. It is therefore also necessary to work to help girls and young women decide more freely about their future. On the other hand, it can also be said loud and clear that we will not take a step back in the fight against macho violence. This is one of the greatest scourges of our society and, as I said before, the greatest sign of inequality, which weighs like a slab. According to the latest data of the ministry, this year fifty-five women have been murdered in Spain, nine of them in Catalonia. This year in our country we have surpassed the dramatic number of more than a thousand women murdered by their partners or ex-partners since there were official records in 2003. We can't go on. Not one more and, above all, not one less. We will all work to ensure that there are no more victims, more murders, and we will do so with more resources, more prevention and also helping survivors to recover. In this matter... [[Greetings.]] On this issue we all have to go to one, and they're not worth the excuses. And, look, I'm setting you an example. For example, we, our group, have submitted a law, a proposal for a law. Catalonia is the community with the lowest percentage in granting protection orders to victims of male violence. The State Act against Gender Violence called for the establishment of forensic units to help judges decide on these protection orders, and it turns out that Catalonia is the only autonomous community that has not yet implemented these units. So from here we have introduced this law and we ask others not to block and to support us in order not to have that inequality in Catalonia. Finally, I insist that in order to advance on equality we must put at the centre of the political agenda what unites us: to end the inequalities that we still suffer from women and to fight against macho violence. And we have to do it so that we can all be free and equal. [[Greetings.]] The President Thank you, Congresswoman. Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mrs Anna Geli. When he wants to. Anna Geli and Spain Well, good delay to all, councillors, deputies, representatives of the Català de les Dones Institute, the National Council of Dones of Catalonia, guests, parliamentary workers, and good delay to all the women who followed us for television, radio or radio. And good afternoon to all, too, to all men. Good afternoon, President, President, Councillors, Members, to all the men who followed us for television, radio or radio. Let me say hello to men and women separately, not for discrimination, nor for gender segregation, nor for having anything against men, but let me explain it to you a little later, at the end of my intervention. I liked the snow, I liked the snow. When I still didn't raise a land floor, my parents would take me to the ski slopes that are at the side of the house, in the Val d'Aran. So I learned almost before skiing that to walk. Little Anna Geli liked the snow very much, but I would never have imagined that one day she could reach the top of the Alpine ski world. And so I completed a dream in 1996. A good glue of years later I was lucky, moreover, to devote myself to the sport of elite, an exception for the women of my generation. It was and is still very difficult for a woman to make a living with sport. But do you know what makes me like when I compete? That he didn't deserve it so much because it was easier to get to where he came from because he was a woman and not a man. The question I always asked them was the other way around: where did they get them if there were some women. This is just an example of how women have suffered discrimination for the mere fact that they are women. That is why today I will talk to you about three concrete measures or three things: the importance of making the problem visible; secondly, I will also talk to you about laws that do not help us achieve equality or full equality, and, thirdly, I will talk briefly about the hostile reality that still exists with women. Let's start with the principle, the importance of making the problem visible. Do you know the impostor's syndrome? This syndrome is pathetic for lack of self-esteem and confidence to develop tasks that have traditionally been in the hands of men. In my case, when I dedicated myself – as I said before and as an example – to skiing, or, now, acting as a representative of the citizens of the High Pyrenees and Aran and also of Lleida. Traditionally, both sportsmen and deputies eren men. So today fortunately women are also deputies, we are midwives, teachers, bus drivers, sportsmen, but they can't always be where we want to be, or we haven't always been where we wanted to be. Little by little, society has opened up and women have more opportunities, certainly. But, still having opportunities, many pathetic women this impostor syndrome, which generates an excess of pressure and a load of work. This syndrome is much more pronounced in women than men and manifests itself with the reason that it is not sufficiently capable to do what we do. Where do we find the origin? In patriarchy, which invisibleizes everyday struggles to reverse historical deficits. Fortunately, this Parliament is making an effort to make visible all these struggles or all these problems that women suffer. We were going to do it last July 1st, in the March of the Ple de las Dones, and we also did it today in this monographic Ple, which derives from the statement that we approved unanimously. In my intervention, of course, from abroad, I have already expressed my willingness to make this plenary a reality, because political action means real and not symbolic commitments. And we can do that from here, from Parliament, but we can also do that from many other places. This is why I want to thank the daily perseverance of the National Council of the Dones of Catalonia, but also the rest of the more than four hundred entities and I also want to thank the good predisposition, the work and the involvement of the Catalan Institute of the Dones, here present, and also the Government and the rest, also, of the deputies who worked on this 1st of July. Thanks to the efforts of all of us, we have been able to frame these proposals to work on the six axes for the Beijing Platform and the Istanbul Convention. In this effort to make visible the problems that we suffer from women, we cannot forget those women who have been raped by the macro-cause against the independence process that they suffer from exile, imprisonment and institutional violence. In fact, I want to send a hug to the families, to the friends and to the good people who defended with ideas and worked to make possible the referendum of October 1, 2017, a rights recognized for the United Nations. That is why, from this rostrum, I want to have a special record for all the reprisals that still suffer persecution and injustice in Spain today, especially for President Carme Forcadell and advisors Dolors Bassa and Clara Ponsatí, also for Marta Rovira, Meritxell Serrat [[applause]] , Anna Gabriel, Meritxell You'll clear all the cases. For all of them, today's plethora. And this special record links us to the second topic that I wanted to talk to you about, you know that they don't help us achieve equality. At the end and end, President Forcadell, the Lower and Ponsatí Councillors, and all the women who have been retaliated in this political conflict have suffered twice, as women and as independenceists. Because a part of society accuses them – accuses us – of breaking the law. Maybe they don't know that when a law is unfair it's just changing that law. All the laws have been won on the basis of men and brave women who have fought for the rights of all. Clara Campoamor led the struggle for universal suffrage; Rosa Parks did so for the struggle against racial discrimination and so many other women referents who have fought to win rights and freedoms for everyone. We all know that never, ever, ever in the history of right-wing humanity has been gifted. That is why, from Juntes to Catalunya, we cannot defend the right of women and not defend the right of self-determination. It's the same order of factors. For Juntes per Catalunya, a right is intrinsic to another right. For this reason, we believe that the preservation of human rights in its full extent is the key to maintaining a more democratic, equal, plural, participatory, equal, cross-sectoral, guaranteed and old society for children's rights. This must be the basis of all politics. That is why we will break with all the laws that are unjust and change them to improve our society, as Rosa Parks did, Clara Campoamor or as President Forcadell and the advisers to exile or prison, and as so many brave women who fight for the rights and freedoms of everyone. I'll give you three examples. The first one we have in this house. 2008 was the year when the Law of the Right of Women was approved to eradicate male-based violence, a law that was pioneering at that time, but now it has to be changed to incorporate concepts, for example, like "digital rapes or institutional rapes, because male-based violence goes beyond what is strictly produced in the pair, and this fact is not referred to, for example, in the 2004 State Organic Law, and that it does not only leave victims or survivors much revictimized, but also, more or less, is counted as such. Not only that, but the Constitutional Court has challenged some of the articles of the Catalan laws that refer to women. This is the case of Article 39 of the Law 17/2015, which refers to the trade union leader of Igualtat, a figure who is old enough for the Administration to have equal treatment and opportunities, but it seems that this does not matter to the Constitutional Court, for sure, a constitutional court full of men. But let's go back to what they call us. In order to advance to Catalonia it is necessary to update the law of 2008, certainly, and count on the work they do from the National Commission for a Coordinated Intervention against Masclist Violence; also count on the National Pact against Masclist Violence, and it is from here that the Working Group in Institutional Violence is stuck and that integrates, besides, institutions and specialized entities. This group aims, for example, to create and carry out a diagnosis and the inclusion of the concept of institutional violence, so the work is being done. In a way, as the Encarna Bodelón, an expert in institutional violence, points out in Law 5/2008, the concept of "secondary victimization" has already been incorporated into this law, so the responsibility of the State would already be recognised in a certain way. That would be a good example of the good work of the entities, as I said before. In this case, the work also collected for Iridia, in relation to institutional violence and directed for Carla Vall. One example that we find in the work of the Group in Institutional Violence is that in areas related to Justice or to the Police of the Generality, the Mossos d'Esquadra, it is given habitual situations of institutional violence. They're going, so we have to help each other, and we have to work with each other to fight it. And a third example is the biting law, which learns the discretion of agents at the time of imposing fines, holding them full presumption of veracity over citizens and citizens. I am convinced that common and PSC would call for the immediate repeal of this law, which restricts basic freedoms and leaves free institutional rapes. And this is not the only law, certainly, that leaves free institutional rapes, there is no more, also the Housing Law or the Foreign Law, for example, that engages women in mafia and exploitation with sexual ends, or the Law of labor reform, to put another example, that consolidates the wage bracket or feminizes the poor. And when was the reform of the Criminal Code? – for when the reform of the Criminal Code? That is why, from Juntas per Catalunya, we defend that some rights cannot be any more or less than others, the rights are the rights of all and absolutely everyone has to defend themselves. For this reason, when the laws do not help us to achieve equality, so what follows, they must change and, meanwhile, it means political action, which means real and not symbolic commitments. For this reason, it is necessary to put in value the political girls for the president of the Government Torra who implements at this time to eradicate male violence. I want to put into value the Second Comprehensive Intervention Programme, with a endowment of 32_million euros and more than one hundred actions taken by the Presidency Councillor, the Lady Budo, who must also allow to enhance many services, among which, the Service of Comprehensive Care to the Donation. Although the Government of Catalonia is making good public policies to fight against gender inequality and the masculinism that women still suffer, we still have a long way to go; certainly, we still have a long way to go. Hence the importance of the two points I have already explained to you, the importance of making the problem visible, changing the laws that do not help us achieve equality, but, still, the reality remains hostile to women. That is why we must continue to detect and eradicate practices such as female mutilation, forced marriages, clandestine abortions – there is still – and the sexual trafficking of women and children, of course. Sexual rape, for example, is a global pandemic – it is a global pandemic. One woman in every 20 years, across Europe, has been raped since she was fifteen years old. This means that around 9 million women have been raped throughout Europe, according to the European Union Agency on Fundamental Rights. Let's translate it into this Parliament. By statistics, three Members of Parliament, from this Parliament, would have been raped. All folded is just the tip of the iceberg that, every time, is bigger and is the front of the barbarism. That's why we have to fight against the cosification of the woman, the glass floor, the hooked land, the wage bracket and all the discriminations I've been enumerating in my speech. In short, we find ourselves faced with a world problem that questions the order of things – very important – and that shakes the powers established during seconds beyond society. And that's why the feminist struggle is criminalized, precisely because of this, because it shakes the powers established during seconds to our society. But it's not all lost. In 1789, the French National Constituent Assembly approved the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the City. Luckily, two years later, an Occitan woman, who I take as a feminist reference and who is Olympus de Gouges, wrote the Declaration of the Rights of the Woman and Citizenship, because it is seen that men had forgotten. For this reason, at first, I have given myself the request to greet them separately, not to commit discrimination, nor to secretate by sex, nor by gender, nor by reason of having anything against men, but, precisely, for all the contrary, because, today, we cannot make the mistakes that we have already made 230 years ago; because, today, you, President, Councillors, Members and all those who follow us from home, from the streets, television or radio are indispensable and, without your involvement, this fight will not win. Men and women are co-responsible; co-responsible to build a less hostile world for women, co-responsible to build a society that breaks with all the laws that make us unequal, co-responsible to build a country that makes visible all the problems that we suffer from women to day. We are jointly responsible, ultimately, for eradicating patriarchy and for having a society with women without and fully free of any male violence, and that, all this, will only be possible with a state that respects all rights equally. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.5.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Caula has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.6.0	Good afternoon to everyone, and that everyone feels included. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, those who still don't make it clear. We are here today to say that we have arrived, and that we have arrived to stay; the women and our travel companions, those who want to transform the world with a feminist look. And we didn't come to conquer the space, or much less, we came to share a different way of doing things. We are not against each other, but we welcome the difference, we welcome plurality and so much good that we never lose this wealth. But let us learn to be complementary, let us learn to enrich each other for this way that we must share, knowers, but that the rights and rights must be of all and equal, once and for all. And, yes, with the consciousness, on the part of all, that we do not start from the same line of exit; we could say that we come from much farther back and, therefore, we have much work left to do. And a big finding, that really men and women think we're still watching the world in a different way, that doesn't mean they're out. Today... – in ugly is my previous companion – I today do not wear this samarreta by chance, as many other days. We recognize all our exiled, retaliatory companies – Constellera Serret, Constellera Ponsatí, Compañeros Rovira, Ponsatí... But I would do this today – and so a PR from our parliamentary group will accompany me – from Dolors Bassa and Carme Forcadell ; from Constellera Bassa and President Forcadell. Because more than anything else that unites us, that is a thick thread, that unites us in many aspects to defend a land and a way of thinking, unites us, I think that still much stronger, a lilac thread. A thread which they have always woven, which they have built not since they were parliamentarians or part of the world of politics, but from the first moment they fought for social policies. And this is that indestriable thread and lila that we always try to convey, because social justice does not go from the indestriable hand of this feminist struggle. And I'm left with these two women, because of their vital bagatge, for which they transmit us, because, for me, it's the way I long for it to be that you do politics in women, politics with a feminist look. They have always fought from all quarters; perhaps this would give us an explanation of why the Law of Guaranteed Income, in other words, was approved by consensus; chance or consequence that there was a woman in the front? We have the same in Parliament's daily life: a president who pushed us to reorganize our times. A hourly reform because all that family reconciliation that we often talk about, not just in speaking but in the past. And breaking a lance in favor of this feminist flag not being a slogan for them, but this feminist flag is raucous and it's seen now. When you go to the prison now, the Carmel and the Pain, this feminist flag defends it all the time; they have mobilized, they have transformed the prisons. Some pressures that must also make us think: a 7_percent of the prison population are women, they stop at some pressures that have mainly been thought and designed for men. They find that they have to live with a lot of different people, but it's that they haven't stopped, and they arrive and... they've followed labor demands, claims of rights, along with all the women who have found themselves, probably, people who see very harsh situations. We are told that three out of four international women have suffered male violence; women who have suffered or who are likely to come from a socio-economically disadvantaged environment. They have dedicated themselves to providing resources for these women; half of them have already started studying school or taking out their driving license. That's bringing feminism integrated into DNA, that's political figures like President Carme Forcadell and Consteller Dolors Bassa, someone who's been busy with these ideas. And we're talking about this double victimization: when the first few months of fighting has to be that "She doesn't give in to oblivion...; this didn't happen to them. What's wrong with us? Why are we looking at each other differently? We'd also have another double victimization here. When we talk to companies like my group's Najat, we talk about more than a million migrant women living in Catalonia, black, indigenous women, Arabs, Amazonians, trans, lesbians, seas... and all that woman who at some point suffered from her daily oppression. Because Catalonia is a diverse country, our Parliament must be the exhibition of this diversity, because this representativeness – as we were asked before – of this Parliament is vital because we evolve as a society. Often we are not yet aware that we must be sensitive to all these realities. And feminism is to be sorority of these women before a patriarchal society, as they show many times where legislative power can perpetuate this oppression. Therefore, let us also launch against this double victimization of racialized or immigrant people. We also take the witness or observe this increase in ultra-rights, both in the international and Spanish spheres. It is based on building internal and external enemies to increase hate and por dynamics. These are their fonaments. And in this sense, the anti-feminist speech has ultra-conservative axes that are contrary to individual and collective freedoms. His speech of hatred is an opportunity to make a determined task of social cohesion and safeguarding all rights. Why this lock? Why is this pulling us back to what we know isn't right? And so much good also we do not forget that feminist struggle always has to go from the hand of the anti-racist. In the last legislature it was part of the Commission of Igualtat. In this commission many times what comes is to compare a multitude of entities, associations..., many, and many of them are from the feminist world or women's entities that group together in different senses. We had the filmmakers, the scientists, the women who came to us to talk about the world of sport; a common link. The first time he took me away, the third appearance he was listening to, because he thought: "I could have come here to talk about needs or shortcomings like a woman in the world of sports and you repeated the same thing that they told us at that time. And it was in areas where we didn't have any points of union between each other; therefore, something has to make us think. If here we have a urn of those that we all see usual when they split the bowls to make the lucky Champions, that we have a few, I think that here we would have an urn that probably there would be so many and so many tickets of those that we would open and stay together to work that we would not finish the seven minutes that remain. So I'll sweep them, and if I may, I'll have one. And this could tell us about firefighters, for example, a masculinized sector; a sector in which 2008 did not reach '1_per_cent of the women who were firefighters. And if we're talking about commands, let's say we could see a similar scene: for every twenty-four inspectors, two inspectors; for every fifty-one subinspectors, only five subinspectors. Are there any women interested in being firefighters? This could be answered by the Nuria Picas. Or are tests discriminatory for women? Let's look at these data: from volunteer firefighters, 154, we're already up to 6.5_per_cent. Why is there such a difference? Until recently, was the minimum height a physical requirement? Perhaps so, but I believe that the bombers and the firefighters must face many and many different tasks, some that can be done 1.90 favors you, but perhaps others, more specific, that doing 1.65 is perhaps a vantage point for getting to other spaces. So, is it probably the height that makes us better or worse firemen? The other day as the workshop we made a castle, we made castles; I assure you that at the moment he was beating and the Nuria Picas helped to stop him, her strength would be to trust his life. And I would recommend that, in this sense, everyone believes that in the future there can be a woman, who is so much more capable than a man. Any evidence that we're talking about physical resistance, could we also analyze that they're a direct application to the daily work that a firefighter will have to develop after that? And these proofs, that you pass them once and then they don't have to be revalidated, give us the measure that the men actually kept it? And all that we're talking about, how those masculine traditional office skills like mechanics, electricians or pallets give more points and, in change, only recently, have gone on to score health-related skills, when we would actually say, probably, it's one of the aspects that more often than not is found by a firefighter in the next few situations. 1989 entered the first dona: Cecilia Aegean. And he couldn't exercise as an initial guard, since the body wasn't ready because he's running a woman in a fire operation. We've got work to do, and that's the problem. Today I felt it, we talked about a thousand things that we could do, we talked about a thousand things that we have written; it already plays, because all this reality that we talked about Bombers, that at this time it's still like this, even though the paper sometimes holds up other positions, it surrounds us all to make it extendable to all areas that this isn't just a way to express itself, but to do it. It was the year of sports anecdotes. I remember the first year I started the women's league was the only woman I trained. If I didn't answer thirty or forty times in the interview that I feel the only woman in the league, I thought: "Home, then, I feel the same as my partner or other. We're developing a professional pocket. Never a selector of an absolute state selection, ever. And if we look for the regulation of the Woman Euroliga, that if this year you are in front of the team of the Uni Girona, when you look at the regulation, you force the coaches to wear a suit and tie. Therefore, I could be punished for going to a party and not wearing the relevant tie. And here we could talk about what happens in the rural world: 90 percent of the women from the rural world, 20 percent from the primary sectors, and 80 percent from the masculine world. And another thing that we have to break – we are here to do things differently –: I think we can't just talk about women as victims, that's a bit of a leave that sometimes when we talk here in Parliament was associated. We want to talk about urbanism, but we don't want to talk about urbanism just to light up the dark places because they're dangerous; we want to talk about urbanism to turn cities into a different thing, because they're not just planned for 50-year-old white men, but the feminine look at how we live in cities forces us to design and to live together in a different way in these cities. Masclist rapes are the consequence of this long journey that we are remembering, but we do not understand that we should only invest in this last season. If we transform before this society, it will not warm us; the last season, the finish will only be or should be residual, because there will arrive many fewer victims. And also break a lance because they, these abusers, often do not cease to be victims of this non-coeducation. And we don't just want our presence in masculine careers. Not that, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case, that there should not only be women in technology; that there should be men in other sectors, such as the care of infants. It cannot be that there are only women in the career of child education; it cannot be that there are only women in child education; it cannot be that in some area of education or cure there are only women. Therefore, we always face this balance of communicating vessels, because without improving one thing we will not improve the other. We also face fatherhood and motherhood. And we can't face it because we have different things; we can't match the mother and we don't seem to understand that the women are the same as the children and everything she's associated with them. We can work for a shared child, we can work trying to aggregate all these aspects. And as soon as we have another round of words, I will try to finish transmitting 'this which would please us women: that we get out of here with a breeze, have transformed a little more this society, that has already begun to walk with a feminist look. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Beatriz Silva has the word. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, so Eva Granados. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.8.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members, I would like to thank the interventions of Montse Pineda and the companies that preceded me. And of all the quotes that can be brought here today, that we have many, many references, many references, I wanted to remember in 1976, to Paranimf of the University of Barcelona, to the First Catalan Days of the Dona, and the Bride Bofill who told us: "It all starts with a woman who speaks to another woman and when this retreat her desire and gives her the confidence and the strength to make it come true. I think it's a good way to start, because that's how the changes start and so we've made all the women equal; that's how feminism was done. And in this monographic debate, the Socialist and Unitarian Parliamentary Group to move forward with two wishes and one objective. The first wish – and I believe that the year Caula also makes reference – is to take this inclusive look, because the women are all over the congregation. We're not a collection; we're half of humanity. And all that we agree on in this House will be for the benefit of the city council. It's not a ple..., it's a ple of women, but it's a ple for women and also for men. We don't want you to stare as a part or as a whole sector and our specificities. Because women's policies benefit everyone. That would be the first wish. The second is that for a long time people are more important than countries, that we don't make an identity debate once more, because the feminist agenda is planetary. And the goal, the goal is that we share the diagnosis. This late we are going out and there will be many issues, many debates, but from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units we want to highlight the importance of the fight against male violence. This is the priority for us. Against the male murderers, because they're killing us. And today it coincides, today 17th of December, two years ago from the assassination of Ana Orantes, that I think it was a turning point, because it was the one that allowed us to overcome this debate in the houses, in the private sphere, and take the abuse to public opinion. She went on TV, announced it, denounced her abuse, and then her ex-husband ended her life. And I think we need to name the statisticians today. The Lorraine was talking about the names of women who have been murdered, but I think it's good to pay tribute, and I think I can do it on behalf of everyone, if we remember in a moment the names and circumstances of the new women murdered in Catalonia at the hands of their pairs in which we carry from year. The Susana, of Sant Feliu de Llobregat, of forty-four years old, who leaves a son of thirty years old; the Eve, of Terrassa, of forty-eight years old, who leaves two sons, of twelve and fourteen years old; the Rita Nicole, of the Hospital of Llobregat, of twenty-one years old, with a son of one year old; the Mònica, of Terrassa, of fifty years old; the Evelyn, of Vic, of twenty-six years old, with a son of five years old; the Tamaria, of Rubí, of forty-one years old, of four years old, of come, of Tarua, of fifteen years old and of twelve; the Yulia, of Prat, of thirty years old, of three years old, of Kelly, of three years old, of three years old, of three years old, of three years old, of age, of age, of age, of age, of age, of fifteen and of age; the Yulia, of the Prat, of thirty years old, of three years old, of age, of age, of three years old, of age, of age, of age, of age, of age, of age, of age, of age, of age, of age, of age, of age, of age, of age, of age, of age, of age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age, age They're not numbers, they're empty, they're annihilated by male violence, and they're kids, and they're friends, and they're families that are also victims of this violence. We cannot allow these names, these blanks to be deleted from our collective memories. And, therefore, we have to agree that priority, that there is no feeling attached..., and that we want to say enough to the words, and we demand facts. And what we want to talk about is that Catalonia needs a pact against male violence, and there's no excuse for not keeping it. And I think today we need to replace all of us – all of us – but the government, too, together with parliamentary forces and women's entities, to make this possible among all of us. I would also like to thank the National Council of Donors and also the group of parliamentary groups that we have taken forward this initiative that brought us on July 1st to the adoption by all political forces of the declaration to which Montse Pineda referred earlier. It is very important to make this monographic debate about women today, because we will move from the declaration to the resolutions, and the resolutions are obligatory compliments for the Government of the Generality; a ple in which we will deepen the lives of Catalans, and therefore also of Catalans, because, as we know, dealing with the relationship between men and women means that it also impacts men. And here men and women we have to share the objective of fighting patriarchy, which has also been cited in all interventions, because patriarchy harms us all. But to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance we would like to see that, beyond this Parliament in which we see the different situations of discrimination that we suffer from women being women, this Ple meant something else, meaning the starting point to start changing the situation, starting from public policies, to achieve effective equality. This has to be compromised by everyone. Because we will not end the historical discrimination that we live with women only with good words and good intentions; to achieve effective and real equality between men and women we need to use politics as the transformative instrument of reality in its maximum expression. And for me here is where we have relevancy, because with this Plenary what we do is bring the demand and the feminist agenda to the heart of legislative power. And yes, and if women's rights are constantly controversial to society and politics, the women's agenda is to develop public programs and policies. And that's why I want to claim the role of politics. All feminist agenda triggers public policies of equality and generates women's rights to secure them. And that's where we have to agree, to make the demands come true, because we don't just party and proclaim the women; we need them to be effective policies. They want to put together five basic points from my parliamentary group; they could be many others, but we did not want to overtify five: access to education, access to power, access to wealth, sexual rights and the right to a life without violence. We want to put these headlines down. And the truth is, we have the laws and we have the rights, but we don't have the guarantee of your exercise. And here's where the government has to act, and also... not just the government, also the joint venture of society. This Ple, therefore, does not only claim laws, it claims the guarantee that it is complete and that the rights are effective. I'm starting with education. Education still in Catalonia today transmits curricular contents that continue to distinguish men and women. I've said it many times, coeducation has to be developed. Nor do we guarantee the right to a non-differentiated education. It also promotes emotional education in the school environment. And we have to remember college, we remember it many times: if 60_percent of students are women, why 13_percent of professors only..., are they women? The power, the second point. The right to power derives the right to parity. It should be an irreversible right, but we have no guarantee that it is an irrevocable right. Betrayal is the only guarantee that half of humanity is represented. And we have enough suspicions and shows that it's not like that. In fact, women are still more interchangeable than men in power structures. I think we need to make a positive balance in the evolution of the presence of women in this room. Just as I used to remember the murdered women and we did this tribute, now let me also make a little tribute. In 1980, in the first parliamentary term, seven women were chosen in this Parliament; they were only 5,2_per_cent of the parliamentarians, and I want to remind them: Maria Dolors Calvet i Puig and Teresa Eulàlia Calzada Isern, of the PSUC; Helena Ferrer and Mallol and Trinitat Neras i Plaja, of the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia; Conception Ferrer and Casals, of Unó Democrática, and our socialist companies, Rosa Barenys and Marta Mata. Thanks, guys, to keep us all going. [[Greetings.]] At these times we are fifty-eight; this is 43_per_cent. Therefore, I believe that we still have work to do, because, if parity is the only guarantee that half of humanity is represented, here too we have a way to resort, together, to Parliament, to the parties. We were working before yesterday, Sunday, the PSC Congress, and we said, "We are feminists, we have been the motto of our Congress, and we are also wearing it in our statutes. And, therefore, we must plant ourselves in front of the fact that some political party is going to question the quotas by stating the merit. We have the right to exercise with the same excellence and the same mediocrity that our fellow men do. Third place – because I'm running out of time – sexual rights. The vindication of sexual rights has to do with the fact that there has been no culture that has not exercised sexual control over women. At one extreme would be the right to abortion, which forces women to be mothers, and at the other the abolition of prostitution, a pattern of sexuality where women can be bought. The Spanish democracy has legislated on the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, and, as well as the attempts of the right to pull our rights back, the feminist movement and the lefts we have managed to hold onto these laws. We have an organic law of 2010 on sexual and reproductive health; Minister Gallardón tried to modify it, he did not, and we hope that from the government of Pedro Sánchez we can also recover the right of children under seven and said years to be able to abort without parental consent. In fourth place, the right to wealth; you have also commented on it before in your interventions. The right to wealth is concrete in the right to work and the right to autonomy, to the economic autonomy of women. And we have to say, and we say it all the time: there are two labour markets, the men's labour market and the women's labour market; there are still discriminations, both in quantitative terms and in qualitative terms. The majority of part-time contracts come from women, especially non-volgut part-time contracts. Wage has also been assigned, we have a 14_percent difference in wages at home and at home. And I want to point out – it hasn't come out – a report by Save the Children that talks about single-parent and single-marital families, where they are eight of each other, these women's capped families, where the poor exceed 50_per_cent. And lastly, the right to life without physical and coercive violence. It consists of those messages that attempt to model the behavior of men and women, the fact that there is a certain pattern of masculinity or femininity. Here we have the feminist struggle, but also the struggle of egalitarian men. When we talk about the Ple of the Dones, we also talk about the fight of equal men. And I'm done. The world situation at these times threatens a world regression in rights. We must fight what the patriarchal system does with the routing women of the planet. There is a patriarchal belief that it is possible to get close to the body of women, and before that it can improve the conditions of all women to any sphere of reality, starting with our body, and to all women all over the world. Feminism shows that solidarity is not only an ethical issue, but also a matter of survival, of politics. Our freedom is always in relation to others, all over the world. That is why the laws and policies must accompany the cry of autonomy and freedom of women who have been listening to the last night of March, in these seas that we have seen from the world. The agenda of the fourth feminist wave is supposed to go against symbolic rape against women and other exploitations, but we cannot fail to address the agenda of sexual and reproductive exploitation. The time has run out to make formal statements, but above all what it is to make ours, everyone, the feminist agenda. Accepting this agenda is putting pressure on neoliberalism, which has the idea that everything can be bought and that everything can be sold; that human beings can co-ordinate, and that they can be object of contractual transaction. This equalization could be effective. And when we hear this Ple, this Ple of Dones, it should be used to share the diagnosis, to set priorities, but above all to inge the actions that are in our abyss. And let's hope that between all of us, we'll still be able to do it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.9.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.10.0	Well, thank you very much. Hello everyone, hello everyone, compañeros MPs, compañeros de los organizacions y moviment feminista, del Consell Nacional de los Dones de Catalunya, compañeros del Governo, compañeros de la Mesa. I would like to begin by remembering that today is a commemoration, is celebrated the International Day against Violence against Sexual Workers, and I believe that it is a date that is important that we also celebrate, because it is precisely a commemoration of some serious murders that took place in Seattle in the eighty-eighth year, where prostitutes' drawings were murdered at the hands of a man. And I think it's important to remember why these days are like these, like the Vuit de Març, like the 20th and the 5th of November, those who really ask us and show us the importance that this Parliament is debating, that this Parliament is debating and adopting measures that go directly to guarantee the rights of women, to see how women can live with a life free of rape, how to progress in their career, how to be a mother or not, how to estimate how and who they want, how to decide about the body and the sex, how to care for themselves, how to be cities, how to have a home and some decent living conditions. We've got a lot to do; we've got a lot to do because we're far away, we're far away yet to achieve this equality. One day he tells us that feminism must be the struggle of all women, also of men, yes, but above all of women, because the protagonists in this we must be and we are the women: the women of the camp, the women of the city, the workers of the street, those who work on their own, those who are trans, queer, "inter, cis, lesbian, migrant, racialized women, vulnerable women, women with functional diversity, monomarentals, great women who want to live alone, young women, all. We have already told the House, that we have presented a motion on masculinist rapes, that feminicide is the tip of the iceberg of a patriarchal system that supports and justifies violence against women. This is why any fight and defense of the rights for feminism goes to combat masculinist rapes from an integral approach. Only in an equal society where all people can enjoy a minimum well-being can we say that women are free of rapes and can live, can they estimate, can they dance, can they walk and can go out without. That's why we were in the Women's Parliament six months ago, there's been a lot of talk. I want to thank above all the role of the Montse and the Companions of the National Council of the Dones of Catalonia, which, in fact, have mastered the debates of their experience, of their reflection of years and years in the struggle for feminism, and the institutions have always gone back, and I think it is important once more to recognize this work done by the entities of the National Council of the Dones of Catalonia. And that's why we believe that what we have in this House, as it has been said, is going from the statement to the motions for resolutions, that, as much as ever since..., the Montse we are following tomorrow..., we agree everything we can, to my knowledge hard, I think it won't be possible at all, because in reality feminism is political and feminism has an ideology, too, and not all of us agree that the causes of masclistic rapes or that the causes of the patriarchal system are the same. Therefore, between putting together and communing the will to do this Plea, which is the first time – for which I understand – that in the history of this Parliament there is a monographic plea on the rights of women – so, it was time, we also have to say among all pleas – this will be a joint one, but possibly identification and answers may not follow the same ones. We know that there are those who believe that there is room for feminism in the current economic and consumer model, in the neoliberal capital model; we do not believe that. We do not believe that it is possible to advance in the equal rights between men and women if we do not challenge the economic and productive system that doubles and triples the women to precariousness, vulnerability, male and structural violence. Since the beginning of the 2008 crisis, this neoliberal capitalist system has articulated a regressive offensive. Through austerity and basic right-wing detailing, we have directly impacted on the rights of women and the policies they are making to defend them; we have seen this at the Catalan Institute of Gifts, we have seen it with the details that have taken place in social rights, in education and in the fight against masculinist rapes, here in Catalonia and the rest of the State and in the rest of Europe. But it is that, moreover, this offensive is imposing new conservative values and sexist exclusions that have resulted in the strengthening of patriarchal and male culture and, if not, we just need to look at the outcome of the later state elections to see it. It's a real danger that we have here and we need to do it. At the same time, globalisation and the growth of the information society, with the emergence of violence and online settlement, suppose us to build free societies of violence and exploitation by reason of gender; we are far away, we are far away. Feminism has as its challenge to achieve the effective equality of the rights of women in all spheres and throughout its life cycle, giving response both to gender discrimination and to all other discriminations than many pathetic women. So we claim sovereignty over the propo as a fundamental sovereignty in the development of decent and just lives, as well as in the construction of a country that has as its central axes the dignity, freedom and equality of people. The women's body has historically been the camp of conquests, and has been the object of abuse, rape, exploitation and invisibility, but it has also been the protagonist of great historical transformations when it claimed to be a subject of social, economic and political full rights. The conquest of the sobrieties also depends – and above all – on the claim of the sobriety over our bodies, understood as the ability of women to decide free of impositions and protections, in a self-determined and emancipated manner. Our political proposal of feminism, diverse and for all, and based on sovereignty, is based on several axes that we want to share continuously: redistribution; the construction of equality and gender justice is directly related to the development of rights that guarantee the redistribution of wealth and common benefits, as well as the redistribution of the tasks necessary for life, whether these are paid or not. Ensure the presence of women in all spheres. In many areas: economics, academics, middlemen, also – and above all – in the political sphere, but we come from a model made exclusively for men and men. Where are the ladies? A model which, moreover, is based on the radical separation of work and family life; a competitive model, a model which first has more success, which shows more, and which has longer. We don't think this is the model that women can fit into. We believe that we need to establish a new model that is more collaborative and more flexible, focused on people, focused on cures. At the same time, the impulse of affirmative actions that guarantee the presence of women in all spheres and that affect male cultural patterns that assign a status inferior to women, that make our contributions to society invisible, that reduce our value and perpetuate gender mandates that stigmatize and are sexist is essential. This implies making education and co-education, access to culture and the development of critical thinking a central pillar of public policies to advance in consolidating rights and eradicating sexism. The healing pockets. It may put human life at the centre of political interests and make the production and reproduction necessary to sustain life sustainable. That's why we need to involve public powers, we need to involve businesses, we need to involve men in the tasks of the traditional women's cures. It ends with the invisibility of these tasks, with the unequal distribution that provokes a load of work above all on women, which, moreover, by not being remunerated, in most cases, further accentuates the feminization of the poor and precariousness. Moreover, this distribution and this invisibility leads us, effectively, to a social system that is unsustainable, because, moreover, it is based on consumption that does not respect cures and that does not respect nature, that does not respect the means that make life sustainable. We must fight this model and we must fight capitalism and neoliberalism if we really want to advance in equal rights between women and men. Sexual and emotional relationships. We have already said, we defend sovereignty over the right to live our sexual and affective relationships free of discrimination, rape and harm, also to be able to know our sexuality out of taboos and harm, to achieve a different and non-discriminatory sexual education that guarantees access to the contraceptive in a free way and that dignifies sexuality in the different moments of life. We also believe that it should be noted that the control and abuse exercised by the ultra-conservative sectors, many times through religions, of wanting to suppress and protect the sexuality of women is also male-based rape. I need to say it. Voluntary interruption of pregnancy. We call for the right of all women to decide freely on the interruption of pregnancy as an unappealable decision, and this right must be guaranteed for all women in Catalonia. And in this sense we will present a motion for a resolution jointly with the CUP group. Prostitution. We manifest our rebreed and the need to fight against the trafficking of people for sexual exploitation. We commit ourselves to coordinating all social and institutional actors to address violations of human rights in situations of exploitation, but we also show that we want to work to defend the rights of women who engage in prostitution, giving them a voice, as we believe that supporting their empowerment is the first step in defending their rights. Male violence. The masculinist rapes, we have said, are a structural element of patriarchal power, they are a difficult social and political problem that affects us all, they are the result of the domain and the abuse of power of men over women and they are exercised in all spheres: at school, at work, at the street, at communication media, at the street. These rapes are based on an androcentric view of language, relationships and work in a neutral way and are legitimate in not naming women and organizing economic and social structures..., – I forgive – from a male perspective. We normalize rapes when we accept discrimination as a natural thing and inherent in women. With the new technologies, with the social networks, there have also been new forms of male violence: cyberassembly or mobile control is also violence. Faced with this very serious reality, we want a country where women actually, but indeed, have right to live without male violence. That is why we have made a firm bet and we have put forward a number of proposals in this sense; we will re-present more, but we have made a clear political and resourceful bet for the fight against masculinist violence, for the development of the Law of 5/2018, for equality between men and women. And they're squandering resources. We insisted, and we would insist, once more. All that I've said to you, all that from our group we've wanted to get to them is how we understand that we have to fight and work for feminism; how we understand that we have to advance in the struggle for equality between men and women. And all this, indeed, and as has been said, must not be mere declarations, must be passed from words to facts, must be concrete measures. I always take advantage of it when there is a ple where we talk about feminisms or masculinist rapes, you know, I always talk about my daughter, because in the end we have as clear as we come, but we don't have clear people where we go, we move on with the future of our daughters. I've seen things in school that have worried me a lot and I've also seen things that have animated me a lot and that have made me think that, in fact, the present is feminist and the future must be feminist and cannot be male. That is why today, for our daughters and for our children, for our seas, for our ancestors, for our men and women, for our deputies, for our fellow social organizations, for all of us, let us take advantage of this plenary and get out of here making feminist politics, now. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, the Member of the House of Representatives, Nattalia Sánchez, has the following words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.12.0	Good afternoon, everyone. When I heard Mount Pineda saying "we have an emergence that is abolishing patriarchy, I felt the urge to say "it's not like we say anything else, right? At the end and end, this is the object of the feminist movement, this is also the object of the National Council of Women, of all the organizations that I am here today, of also breaking into Parliament to carry this objective, this feminist objective, which is to eradicate the patriarchy of institutions, which is probably one of the most ended places. So one more time, thanks for this break-in, thanks for adapting – I told you on the Day of the Parliament of the Donors – to dynamics that are used to being sometimes long-term to the forms that we also have from entities, from the collections of organizations to work. And so many thanks and thanks to all the parliamentary groups, especially all the companies we've been working with these days. You broke up, we broke up the feminists in Parliament, but the certain – and you know better than I – is not the first time you've done it. The feminist movement broke into these patriarchal dynamics of institutions, and an example of this eruption was how feminists and women's collections were essential in the passage of Law 5/2008; they were essential in naming things for their name, and I will try to entertain myself on this issue of the importance of naming things for their name. Today we are talking about rights, the rights of women historically violated in a structural way. Violations that are given in a given situation, are given in a given situation, in a social and historical context, and serve the interests of power and domination that pass through all social condition. The masculinist rapes, therefore, are the fundamental tool that patriarchy has to perpetuate inequality, hierarchical relations and the power of men over women, the relationship between all masculinist aggressions, which until we broke up, which you broke into in this Parliament to make this law, which also changed everything in a very concrete context, determined that these rapes were made winged, exist only on the margins of the system or as problems even private and domestic in themselves of the pair. The feminists broke this vision and we explained how, far from being punctual situations, male violence responds to a structural reality where women are and are systematically submissive to a system where women's rights – I insist – are violated. We have an emergence, which is abolishing patriarchy. And I still need to name things for his name. We went from naming him domestic violence to starting talking about gender-based violence to end up talking about male violence. The first concept duplicates the space; with gender-based violence it takes into account the differentiated socialization between men and women, and finally, male-based violence places the focus on the patriarchal structure as a source of violence. They finally get them out of the house, recognize that they can pass in any context, and also untie them from the pair, recognize that any man, collect or be able to exercise them. In a time of neo-feixisms, in a time of patriarchal dictatorships, in a time of negationists, before the abuses and patriarchal violence, in a time of Vox, it is important that we give things for his name. That's why we found it important to devote some time to questions that may be obvious, but that are important, when today's people in the institutions of the Spanish State intend to make a logical regression in denial of rights to women. It is important that we all recognize this patriarchal structure, which is the one that perpetuates violence against women; not only do you proclaim concepts and structures that make it very clear what we are fighting against. Emergence is abolishing patriarchy. And before that, we find public institutions with a judicial system that plays its part, that revictimizes us, blames us, and in no case protects us. And it's not just the justice system that's playing against us. Neither the State nor its legislation are taking steps to eradicate rape. Foreign law is institutional rape and leaves women in an irregular situation, in a situation of brutal defence in front of cases of male rape. Dismantling public services or labour reform are institutional violence that makes women vulnerable, in a situation of vulnerability that often does not allow us to escape from the situation of violence. Day by day, it's the feminist movement that marks the path and fights from the street to all these violins; it's the working women, the low ones, the ones we go out to the street every general slot and the ones we want to reverse an economic system that oppresses us to support the privileges of a few; the ones we want a feminism to change everything. Because yes, because if we don't get rid of this system we can never be free. You know, the UPC conceives feminism as a total challenge to these social and power relations that are established in patriarchal and racist capitalism. We imagine a feminism that avoids tinted myths, and that has the intention to address the capitalist hindrances of the problem. We do not sell a feminism that allows a few women or a few women to access power places, direct places, to allow them to climb, with their privileges, those working women who support life and who support the healing tasks that allow us to live. Faced with this reality, capitalist societies have built themselves from the schematic to the material bases that sustain life, from the schematic to the women; an economy that prioritizes economic growth and an accumulation that has declared war on the bodies and territories. Human life, like the rest of the one he saw, depends on the biosphere, its materials and its processes, and also on the great amount of work and energy he supposes to take care of the bodies. The finding between the ecological and feminist viewpoints can contribute – and better yet – to giving light to a new paradigm. Since the first quarter of 2012 – and I continue to name this precariousness that condemns women to have a face..., to have a face of poverty – productivity per hour worked has increased twice as much as wages. Deia: the poor have a face, and all the indicators, systematically, show a more unfavourable situation for women. Menys returns, more risk of exclusion and poorer. For us, in this economic system, bastit on our double exploitation, built on male violence against women, the most responsible is to do everything in our hands to change the conditions in which most women live, and we are not talking about an imaginary utopia, but of the least to draw a path to a just society, knowing that to do so we cannot count on a Spanish State – and I conclude, President – that it is not reformable, that it is of natural monarchic, hierarchical and patriarchal nature, and that it is the heritage of Francoism. I ended up quoting Maria Aurèlia Capmany, who wrote: "With the victory of the Francos, we could see how a society was organized where the penis would be absolutely necessary as the presentation board. The breakup also fem against this state. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.13.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs Esperanza García has the word now. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.14.0	Well, good afternoon, everyone. Look, last July we were celebrating here in this very Chamber the first Ple de les Dones, a day that was clearly historic; an initiative that was totally pioneering, I think very positive – we are very grateful to Montse and the Dones Council for that work and that momentum. And, with all due respect, I must say that this Chamber, this look of these men and women sitting in this Chamber, pleases me more. And it pleases me more because equality is not just a question of women. This is a maxim that we have always defended from the People's Party, because it is simply the realization of reality. In the end, all the concentric circles of society have to be interconnected, don't they? , and we are men and women who together, walking hand in hand, can achieve that effective equality between men and women. We, who are the fourth concentric circle, who are the ones who dedicate ourselves to this noble passion of politics, are the ones who have the responsibility to push the rest of the sectors of society, of those concentric circles, to facilitate that task on the path of equality. That the reality of women is very different depending on where they were born is obvious, isn't it? But we have an opportunity, as people who live in a fully developed and highly evolved world, much unlike other countries, we have grandmothers, mother women, sister women, working partners, women friends, couples and daughters who have more difficulty than others in achieving their goals. We have the opportunity to take that positive legacy of all the struggles and demands on equality of the 20th century, where many barriers were opened and where women could reach many places where previous generations could not do so, to overcome those divided roles that were in the past, which we already overcome, and start working for shared roles. In the end I always say..., and I set an example that is very simple, right? : four generations of women in my family have been autonomous – I before entering and being a Member of this Parliament – and what a different life we have come to. We have all lived with a lot of passion – this comes from a family character – but it is true that we have progressed over the years in balance between what were responsibilities, commitments and being able to realize our dreams. Now we find a generation where women have broken barriers, where women not only work, study, care, care, but also remain the family core. We seem to have duplicated tasks in the world of women. And I think it's time, the new challenge of the 21st century, to fight for equality to share, to share roles: to share with men. A great challenge, where men can exercise their paternity without being stigmatized; they can ask for permission without being pointed out entrepreneurship; where women choose to be mothers or not to be, and if they are not, they are no less women because they have decided not to be; where men and women, in short, can develop their life plan in freedom and equality. And how can we keep moving forward? Because a lot has been said here about neo-capitalism, in short, about the oppressive system..., and I believe that, from recognition to the diversity of opinions, to the diversity of instruments, to the diversity of visions that we have of the members of society – including women – about how to achieve that equality, we must respect plurality and move forward without displacing man. This is our maximum from the People's Party: to defend equality as a value, not as a label, not as a language resource, which we have heard a lot from this Faristol and from other atrils. A veritable backbone of a society that, in the end, is always going to be better, freer and fairer. That has been our commitment: that has been our commitment in the past, as we have demonstrated with the decisions of government that we have taken when we did so; that will also be our guide of present and future, and we also want to recognize especially those women of the PP who facilitated the task for us all, whether or not they voted for the People's Party, and who have been pioneers and are very proud of them, as was the first – the first – European Deputy Commissioner, Mrs Loyola de Palacio, whose anniversary of her death a few days ago was fulfilled, and who was so in the year... – let's see – 90. As was also our president Alicia Sánchez Camacho – express, Alejandro, with your permission –, who was the first president of a party in Catalonia woman. As were our first mayors, as they were simultaneously, in the year 99– and not this year – the first president of the Senate and the first president of Congress. Look, we are going to base all the proposals we have put forward in this plenary on four axes, which are ultimately the same four axes that have guided our entire history as a party. The first axis is growth and economic stability: the independence of women, the vital autonomy of women, is to have economic independence, i.e. more work, more women with more preparation, better jobs, women with their own business and better conditions, because it is the first gap that prevents them from developing their vital project on an equal footing. A second axis, which is to educate on equality, eliminating stereotypes that hinder, in the end, equal opportunities and encourage women's referents. I give an example: Margarita Salas, a scientist, died just a few months ago, and we have not yet paid tribute to all his scientific achievements as a society. A third axis, which is to move forward in conciliation and co-responsibility, is that maternity is indeed one of the gaps that widens the gender gap, not only with better wages but also with better working conditions so that being a woman with a family project does not penalize her present and her future. A_fourth, which is the fight against gender-based violence, which is ultimately the cruelest face of inequality, and which we have done since the impetus of the first State Pact against Gender-Based Violence. Women have an undoubted – an undoubted – capacity as leaders and agents of change. We just have to reach out to men to push them and walk together in achieving equality. I understand that perspectives and looks are different depending on which party they are produced, but if we work among all, generously, without short-term partisan strategies, we will be able to improve and ultimately turn equality into a social value.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.15.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We will continue with the intervention of the President of the Generality, once these first interventions have been completed by the parliamentary groups and sub-groups. President of the Generalitat, when vulgui.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.16.0	Too late for everyone. President... we celebrate today an extraordinary plethora of women's rights, at the request of all groups, to address everything that has been done and everything that remains to be done to us in equal policies. In fact, some of you, in your intervention, for example, of the Parliament of the Dones, celebrated last June, precursor of this monographic ple; it was mentioned above in Law 5/2008, of the right of women to eradicate male violence, a law much advanced in its moment, wide-eyed, which contemplates all forms and areas of violence against the woman only because of the fact of being a woman; Law 17/2015, of effective equality of women and men, which seeks to guarantee the effective equality between women and men in all social and personal spheres, and, if they permit me, the governance of this legislature, which specifically incorporates equality between women and men in all areas, a gender-based vision of health, of agriculture, of justice, of agriculture, of justice. I would also like to remind you that the Català de los Dones Institute doesn't do much for weeks..., we celebrated its thirtieth anniversary in Palau: thirty years of work continued to bring all these advances and to help social transformation with the aim of eliminating inequalities. March Eve, International Day of the Dona, in which we celebrate and remember the current struggle and the long history of many women in favor of equality and that each time goes more and more. Or, also, the institutional campaigns that remind us and assign us to male violence, a violence that is not generated for which women do, but by the sun done to be. All these initiatives have the objective of advancing in the right. The rights of women are human rights, a phrase that was popularized at the World Conference of Women in Beijing in 1995, and which, quite frankly, when we are about to commemorate the twenty-five years of that conference, has claimed full force. Moving forward on these rights is our obligation, it is our duty as the Government, and we can do it three ways: first, better lawmakers; second, better servants; third, changing perspective. Legislature better. Catalonia was a pioneer at the time of encouraging legal brands, such as Law 5/2008, of the right of women to eradicate male-based violence – approved, by no means, unanimously and which foresees all forms and scopes of male-based violence in coherence with international guidelines. Also the Law – as stated before – 17/2015, of effective equality of women and men, in full process of deployment and which, you see, counted articles affected by the Constitutional Court. It will detail them more in advance of the councillor, but with the will that the laws adapt to the needs of the people and not to the opposite, and that it is updated when necessary, we will propose to amend Law 5/2008 with the objective to include institutional violence, digital violence and a reform to define sexual consent in this law. According to the way I gave them before: giving you better service. Yesterday we presented the tax reform agreement, which attacks the share of the tickets, and now we will address the share of the expenses of the budget for the coming year. We're on our way, and I want to thank the good predisposition we find ourselves with. Let me give you some brushes of elements that may be useful in this specific debate that we are having today. For the ticket band, we bet on tax justice. We'll help those who don't have tickets and contribute more people than they do. And what impact does it have on women? It's a question. She has been alerted on various occasions in this chamber, the poor attack women more forcefully, and more continuously in time. For the expenditure band, I am just going to point out some of the details of the budget project in which we are working and which we will present to the chamber: 900_million euros more destined for salvation, a quarter of which will be for primary attention and which will, among many other things, allow us to increase more than six hundred places of health care at the ICS, at the time that we will continue to reinforce the focus of gender in salvation, as we have been doing since the beginning of the legislature, with a new pregnancy protocol or the Council Advisor on Gender and Health Policies, which we set out a few months ago. In education we will recover the levels of expenditure expected to the crisis, with current expenditure already 210_million euros over the value of 2010 and much over 2007, and that leads us to have 5,700 dozen more than 2017. We will recover funding from municipal children's homes with 30_million euros, by deploying the inclusive school decree, with an increase of 13_million euros or by increasing the number of scholarships with more than 11_million euros, without obliving at any time the stake for co-education and the commitment to end school segregation by gender. We also want to allocate 140_million euros more for the deployment of the quarter-trail of the Law of guaranteed income of citizens and services linked in the labor incorporation. As you know, precariousness, temporality and partiality affect women much more strongly, and in the long run, they will end up having an impact on pensions. We will also allocate an additional €57_million to reduce 30_percent of the tuition and master price equalization price, and we will incorporate an additional €12_million for gender equality and fight against the male violence that we are about to advance. There are only a few measures that accompany other initiatives that are driving all government departments oriented towards including the gender perspective in a cross-cutting way. The STEMcat plan to promote the incorporation of young people into technical careers, the inn to create of the Council Counsellor of Dones del Món Rural or the Observers Català de la Justicia en Violència Masclista, among many others. For a third focus it is necessary to change the perspective, now I could follow a purely institutional discourse that details the work done, the work that remains for us to do, and that finds that Catalonia is a country advanced in legislation, in social consciousness and in services related to the rights of women, but it would cite examples and results of a great work for the effective equality of women – examples and results – a work commendable and necessary, but badly insufficient. Insufficient because there is not enough lawmakers, structural changes, implement cross-cutting policies, but above all to shake consciences to question the status quo and subvert the role of dominant genera. Work, as we say, has been done a lot, and good, but the way that remains to end the fruit roles of patriarchy is still long and very important. It may be that we are fighting back-to-back approaches and rethinking our circle as a key to feminist transformation. With the words of the Nigerian writer Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie: "We want a world of men and women happier and more honest with themselves, and to get it we have to raise our daughters in another way, and also our children. It is essential to promote and develop proposals of ideas that they conceive, that they rethink, that reinvent another world to achieve real equality in all the spaces of our day to day. Men and women have to put their eyes on the slender, masculinated look that undervalues the half of the population. And this is the key, practically all groups have said it, it's the challenge: to fold it, men and women together. Talking about women's rights is talking about human rights, I insist, talking about equality between people, talking about fraternity and democracy, and talking about freedom. Carole Pateman says: "The patriarchal construction of the difference between masculinity and femininity is the political difference between freedom and subtitude. Therefore, men can not only not dishearten from the feminist struggle, but we have a key role, we have a decision to make, take action and participate actively in the struggle for the defense of gender equality. The feminist struggle must also form a part of our lives, and this must be the new turning point for our society. It's imperative that from this point of view, men ask themselves where we want to be. Do we want to be at the side of women in struggle for equal rights and opportunities? And then, what's our role to be in this fight? And here today in this chamber, which called upon the women deputies, call upon the seventy-seven deputies men. Are we available, are we as brave as all Monserdàs Dolors, Tereses Claramunts, Maria Aurèlies Capmanys, Montserrats Roigs or Maria Mercès Marçals to pull forward this change? Do we really believe that? The question is simple, but the answer is not so much, because the answer we do not have to do in our speeches, it is not enough with aesthetic changes or rhetoric, the answer must be introspective and sincere. It is what will mark our conduct, our contribution to change, to the real transformation of society, a point of inflection of central importance. We men have to lose the por to lose, we have to lose the por to lose the domain of genere. Let us reflect generously and demand fair and equitable masculinities, because without us, let us be clear, it is not possible for us to transform the roles of the genera. Now and here I would like to share this commitment: to bet on women; it is to say, to break paradigms, to bet to deconstruct the roles of imposed genera, from consciousness, which is not a easy task, so that you may learn to learn again, with constancy and perseverance, with dialogue, with consent and with determination. What? They recognize that masculinism forms part of our day-to-day life, that it forms part of us, of the education we have rejected, of art, of consumption. Ending with the adjectives and clixes that the man presents as calculator, rational, practical, savior of the helpless, non-emotional, competitive, lessor and dominant – these are some of the adjectives and clixes associated with the man. They also recognize that this image of masculinity corresponds to a forced image, created, inculcated along history, and sharing with more people, men and women, the will to truly transform this concept of masculinity. We can give free to all the potential of women, who flood us with all their energy, their strength, their ability, and only so, folded, equal, we will make a better country. Freeing this potential implies breaking schemes, shaking consciences, reshaping our way of hearing us. It gives the principle that there is not enough with all the laws, public policies or actions that we can do for effective equality, because while half of our people struggle to achieve their legitimate place, where is the other half? We are also at a time of rise of counterposed movements, action and reaction, and there is a bounce of those who do not want to change things, who want to impose the false relation that women already have the same possibilities or that they have to have a different role than the man; movements to which they move by, by losing privileges, use of privileges not deserved, not legitimate. In other historical moments the claims and conquests of feminism were also faced with counter-reactions. Just remember the demand for women's suffrage in the 19th and 20th centuries in all Western countries. Therefore, let us add ourselves to a new way of doing, of thinking, to say no to masculinism, to reject all pacts with masculinism and to distance ourselves from those who swallow it. Now as now the world is giving itself a new feminist impulse with movements that cross the borders, like the # MeToo or the song The rapist is you, but he still has to go further. She gave Woolf that she didn't want women to have power over men, but over themselves. Well, only with the firm commitment of men will we get a scene where equality will be a reality, so in the fight you are not alone, we are there. The participation of women is nuclear in all spheres, as we have here, the men alone will never get out with our social and country reptes. I'm done. From my position as President of the Government of Catalonia, and on behalf of the Government, we will continue to work because all policies remain equal, because the legislation we have worked on is not changed, because all public policies incorporate gender equality and come to all areas of our society, and to you, Members and Deputies, I pray that in all its areas of action they also fight for themselves, it is the political and social responsibility that we all have. The country needs to have this ambition and it needs this energy and, if it allows me, it has passed. Thank you very much. And then, the Presidency Counsellor will just disengage the government's policy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.17.0	Thank you, President. Next, therefore, has the word the President's Counsellor, Mrs. Meritxell Budó. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.18.0	Thank you, President. President, deputies, deputies, entities, friends and friends, good afternoon to everyone. I want to begin my intervention in this debate by filling out the importance, the need, the opportunity and the desire that our Parliament celebrates today this general debate on the recognition and the guarantee of the rights of women. A debate that was possible thanks to the impulse of the National Council of Dones of Catalonia, and in particular, I would like to thank its vice president, Montse Pineda, for his work and collaboration. The president, in the parliament with which he preceded me, was talking about the compromise of the whole government in the right of women, and it is that this compromise that we put into practice every day will help us on the way to becoming women, because as Simone de Beauvoir said: "It is not a woman, it becomes a woman. We are in a world that has been conceived as a male, sexist and patriarchal, where women have torn down all our rights for thousands of years and in a universal way. And it's true that many things have changed, but there's still a long way to go, and it's not any way because today there's no culture in the world that can solve global violence against women. And before this reality, the determination to transform it, and to transform it: the feminist revolution. Angela Davis said feminism is the radical idea that we give people. Imagine that feminism is the radical idea that we give people. Well, as the woman who works and as the councillor of the Government of Catalonia, I want to say that we need radical feminism and we need to be radically feminist. And if in principle the feminist idea was to create a world without exclusions for women, a world where women can develop all our projects with the same opportunities as men, this ideal has become rich with the idea of being able to change the very notion of rights and citizenship. We need to start from the reflection on citizenship and democracy so that we can build gender policies that eliminate gender inequalities, because the problem of discrimination against women is a structural problem, and we cannot approve gender discrimination of other discriminations to our society. We need to think and rethink public policies taking into account the gender inequality structure of our societies, because gender policies must be placed in a concept of citizenship and democracy, which takes account of the problems of oppression and sexism. We will not find the answer to this structural problem if we devote ourselves to making an equalization of women with those who already exist. The complete elimination of gender inequality and patriarchal relations cannot be built as a mere inclusion of women in our societies, but requires their change to create a real society of all and all, a democracy also for women, a world also for women. Because our societies have been structured according to an institutional sexism that causes problems of discrimination to be as much in our organizations as in our social, economic, political, cultural and family relations. And if it turns out that one of the main sources of gender inequality is in the configuration of relations between public and private space, then we need to rethink our economy, our culture and our policy of rebuilding public and private space. This is a task that starts the women of other secs, it's a task of the present and it's a task of the future. Feminist struggles have resulted in women moving from the personal sphere to the public sphere. And yes, we still have a glass floor, but we've managed to get more into public space, and we've brought our full potential. Sociology explains to us that while male leaders want to achieve triumph, female leaders want to achieve quality; that female leaders base management on compromise, responsibility, honesty and cooperation, together with a great dose of intuition and sensitivity. In short, from women's leadership, we work and contribute value management to the public sphere. We find ourselves in these moments on the fourth wave of feminism and we won't get a complete equality on this fourth wave if we don't get all the women and men involved in this fight. A while ago the president asked us some questions about men and said: "Where do we want to be? And who do you want our paper to be? And, in addition, he would raise the challenge of whether they were willing. So I say to them: "Coming forward, presiding; coming forward, counselors; coming forward, deputies. We need committed men in the feminist struggle, we need fighting men for a better society, we need fighting men for real equality, for feminism, that will serve us all and all. And to do that, it's essential that men do the process that we've done the women, but the other way around. Says sociologist Jokin Azpiazu that men must deconquer the work, withdraw too many from the cultural and symbolic domain and take away the political land, but above all men must enter the private space. Well, questioning remodeling or deconstructing the traditional form of being men is one of the greatest reptes of feminism. In fact, the new masculinities must be an ally of feminism, because they break the patriarchal structure. And we all know that while society is patriarchal, there can be no real equality. This will be the fourth revolution of the feminist wave: incorporating the new masculinities. And if he was talking about public and private space and the need for this step of man to the private sphere, I would like to highlight some of the public policies specifically aimed at transforming both the tasks and the relationships between men and women into that which is private. In concrete terms, I want to highlight policies in three areas: cures, the use of time and equal sexuality. Incorporating the cures into the role that men develop in their private space would suppose an authentic revolution. For this reason, one of the highlights of the Strategic Platform for Gender Equality Policies is those awareness campaigns about the gender distribution of the llary and curative tasks and their social and economic value. But to make this awareness effective in other structural reforms of our society, as a more rational distribution of time in our daily lives. And that's why at this point I want to put in value and fill the office for the hourly reform, because we want to consolidate the time factor as a new measure of freedom, of welfare, but also of gender equity, because without the hourly revolution it will be impossible to make the revolution of equality between women and men in private space effective. And as I said, I want to emphasize from this private realm the importance of achieving equal sexuality, the pleasure of you. And that's why we need real sex education at school. The strategic plan also works in this area. It must radically transform the sexual pattern of pornography. We know that it's the boss where a lot of young people look, we know that it's the boss that a lot of normalize, normalize this fiction and this violence. Therefore, not just the common sense, but the reality that we have in front of us urgently and would need a new sex education in the schools. And I'll come in and talk about violence, too. We have problems of violence, especially in the most private and intimate places. I'm talking about male violence and I'm thinking about a violence that women have long since made it clear that we want to eradicate. In fact, a few weeks ago we celebrated the International Day against Masclist Violence. In fact, that very week we had an ordinary plethora here in Parliament and we were going to be able to talk about those public policies against male violence. In fact, in this Parliament we all agree on saying things for his name: the attacks, rapes and murders of women are male rape. And, in fact, at the beginning of this month of December, the plenary of the National Commission against Masclist Violence has already taken place. And it's at this point that I want to put in value the Catalan Institute of Donations. From the government, from the institute, we work in a wide range of policies and strategies to make gender equality effective. And if what we want to achieve is the most effective, if what we want is the real impact of these policies, if what we want to achieve is the right outcome, then the Institute's task is essential to drive and coordinate the actions and projects of the different departments of the Generality. That is why, at this new stage that we have started from the ICD, the priority is the coordination of all the policies that we do from the government; our goal is not the name of initiatives, our goal is to achieve a real impact to transform those realities that we do not like. And, in this sense, we have reactivated and empowered the working group to the impulse and follow-up of the National Pact for the Eradication of Male Violence in Catalonia. This working group, which has already implemented the focus of the document and the working methodology, is already beginning to work on the drafting of a proposal for a basic document that will reduce the main commitments of this national pact, and that will seek the participation and support of the Parliament of Catalonia, the National Council of Dones of Catalonia, the National Commission for the Approach to Masclist Violence and of all the groups of specialized entities, social agents and civil society to facilitate the participation of a large social majority so that a real compromise can be achieved that transcends more than governments. And as the president said, this government has the will to propose reforms in Law 5/2008, of masculinist rapes, so as to include institutional rape, digital rape and a reform to define sexual consent. And if having a proper legal framework is an indispensable tool for women, today we also have a weapon that makes us powerful and empowers us, that is the Internet and social networks, that have made possible the exchange of experiences between women who have suffered, or not, violence, and thus strengthened and increased our freedom. Remember the year 2017? The year 2017 was a year of special empowerment for women; the year 2017 is the year that was officially included in the dictionary the term « sorority, with the definition of « close bond between women based on the compartment of experiences, interests and concerns. And it was precisely..., or perhaps as a result of this year of the # MeToo, the first great global movements to the networks where the allusion of sexual assaults that women from all over the world suffer in our day to day is visible. The Internet and social networks made possible a revolutionary turning point in visibility and struggle against male violence. And thanks to the internet and the networks, we find another one of these revolutions where together is denounces the lack of female presence in public spaces or power, with the movement where we are women, # OnSónLesDones, because this still today we have to ask on many occasions. Finally, I don't want to let go of the realm of politics, because unfortunately the women in politics still have a glass floor. Politics, from legislation and from the implementation of public policies for gender equality, also forms part of the patriarchal organization; however, from a principle, it is a structural problem. We need to improve the participation of women in politics. We can't deny the adventures, which have been many, but if we do think we've got it all done, we're deceiving ourselves. Finally, let me, and without wanting to argue..., today in Parliament, if we look at the Bureau – President, I have no intention of arguing – but it is obvious: the roles of the Presidency and the vice-Presidents of the Parliament are all for men, and the secretaries, the first ones, are also all for men. Ends here, a whole hierarchy. And we are left with the extremes, in different places: the women occupying the last secretariats. But it would not be just talking about this Parliament without remembering that it had two presidents: President De Gispert and President Forcadell, who today cannot be in this Parliament because, as you know, it is unfairly undertaken. And to speak precisely of President Forcadell, in this case, as the political grip also serves us to manifest the invisibility of women also in this area. There are differences between women and men when we talk about political prisoners and political prisoners and exiles and exiles. I ended up following the concept of sorority and adapting to the plural a phrase of journalist Oprah Winfrey: "Women are not our circumstances, we are possibilities. If we know that, we can do whatever it is. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.19.0	After the government's interventions, it is a new turn for the parliamentary groups and sub-groups. I, in the first place, have the word, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.20.0	Yes; thank you, President. They're going to allow me to use this replica not to replicate, but to delve deeper into my previous speech. I think today is not a day of reproach, it is not a day to look at us among ourselves, it is a day to look at those women who need us to agree. For all of them and for all of us. Simone de Beauvoir said feminism is a way of living individually and fighting collectively. And I think that is precisely what citizenship is asking of us, that we put at the heart of the political agenda what unites us, without raising borders in the immense plurality of what feminism is. Equality between men and women cannot focus, as we said, on changing words, but on changing policies and adopting improvements that bring us closer to real equality. I believe that we will all agree to continue to make progress in measures that favour, for example, equality in the field of work, in which, from our autonomous community, the State Pact against Macho Violence, adopted with consensus since the Congress of Deputies, is something vital and that we must do, and that we must also ensure an education that promotes the values of respect, co-responsibility and the overcoming of stereotypes in order to achieve and achieve that effective equality between women and men. But we have to go much further, we have to move, as I said, from the proposal to the protest... – sorry – from the protest to the proposal. [[remorse of the voice]] and from the proposal to specific and real measures. Let's see if you've never had a lapsus, which makes you so much fun. But, well, it's okay. He said that we must move from protest to proposal and not remain alone in the proposal. Because here we have seen many good declarations of intent, letters to the Kings, now that the time is coming, but what is needed are specific measures, real measures, and that is what we intend to do in this plenary. Because there are many women, for example, who continue to suffer the scourge of sexist violence. And that's why I explained before we put on the table the creation of comprehensive forensic assessment units. And we have urged the Government to launch them immediately after their approval. We believe, with all our conviction, that these units will help save lives, that they will help women. And we also believe that we need to reach agreements to ensure the budgetary allocation to combat this social scourge at all institutional levels, covering, for example, the increase in places in reception centres, with health care, with therapeutic assistance, with measures for socio-occupational integration, and also supporting the invisible victims of macho violence: those daughters and children who have been left without their mothers, the relatives, the friends of those direct victims. I say to you that in this monographic plenary we must set the start of these concrete measures, concrete measures for all women who suffer from problems of violence and discrimination. Violence and discrimination that is also increased when women belong to the LGTBI collective. This collective is still waiting for multiple resolutions of this Parliament to be implemented to ensure the freedom, effective equality and non-discrimination of women within the Parliament. In the same vein, I would like to refer in particular to the discrimination suffered by transgender people, very unfair discrimination both at social level and, for example, in the world of work. And that is why we, from Citizens, propose to develop a socio-laboral integration programme specifically for these people, as well as to launch campaigns against stigmatization and discrimination to promote their recruitment. I was also speaking in my previous speech, and I think we have shared it, about the importance of equal education as one of the fundamental axes for ending machismo. It is necessary to break the gender stereotypes among the youngest, and this is obviously due to the visibility of the role of women and to the recognition of their contribution to society. And speaking of the need to recognize relevant women in our history, I want to take advantage to announce to them one of our proposals that is a proposal to exalt the figure of Clara Campoamor, a pioneer who achieved a historic milestone: that Spanish women could vote. In a very turbulent time, in a difficult time, she never resigned and fought hard to defend women's equality, freedom and citizenship rights. So we hope that all the parliamentary groups will be able to support us in this proposal, which will undoubtedly help to make one of the most important women in our history visible. [[Greetings.]] We were talking about young people and we were also talking about sexist violence, and I think we need to insist on the idea and concern that we have because there are more and more victims and also young aggressors. We are experiencing alarming cases of sexual assault among young people, and in the face of such barbarity we cannot stand idly by. To this end, we believe that it is key to develop a strategy for the prevention of macho violence in educational institutions, as well as for the prevention of gender-based school harassment, as well as in educational leisure spaces and youth spaces. Another aspect that I have also referred to earlier is combating poverty, and in particular the feminization of poverty. And this is done with real policies of reconciliation, with policies of co-responsibility between women and men, with policies for the reduction of the wage gap, unemployment and the precarious work of women. For us it is a priority to refinance children's education from zero to three years in the budgets of the Generalitat, and also to increase the number of places. In this case Mr Torra, the President of the Generalitat..., seems to have intended to allocate resources to education from zero to three years, and the truth, that would be quite a novelty that we would appreciate, because during the last few years you have not dedicated a single euro to education from zero to three years. We hope that this time that promise will be fulfilled, Mr Torra. We also need to talk about women with disabilities, who also suffer from double discrimination: first, because they are women, and second, because they are disabled. And that is why we must put everything in our hands to ensure the right of women and girls with disabilities to full and equal participation in our society and, of course, also in the labour market, with specific measures for their inclusion in the world of work. He also told them that inequalities must be addressed from the different spheres of life that affect women, such as that career of obstacles that we suffer many in the world of work. From Citizens we have always had very clear this reality that as a society we cannot allow ourselves. That is why we believe that incentives should be put in place for those companies that facilitate the reconciliation of their workers, be they men or women, for the care of their children or also for the care of dependent family members. We also believe that it would be important to open a line of subsidies to self-employed women over 50 years of age whose income does not reach the inter-professional minimum wage, so that they can either finance the minimum quota or increase their contribution. And also promote the creation of an entrepreneurial women's council to provide solutions to women's problems in the business world. But also in the rural world. The activity of women in the primary sector and in rural areas has always been intense, but has often remained invisible, as it was considered to be a further extension of household tasks. In 2011, a State law was passed to promote shared ownership of land, but eight years later in Catalonia only five women have registered in this shared ownership registry. I therefore believe that we also have an obligation to make this law known through information campaigns, as well as to carry out specific campaigns to promote women's entrepreneurship in rural areas. Another area where inequalities persist is in sport. According to data from the report « Les dones a Catalunya 2019, of the Institut Català de les Dones, women represented 24_per_cent of the federal licenses in Catalonia during 2017. Regrettably, there are still a lot of stereotypes, which mean that women do not practice certain sports because they have traditionally been practiced by men. We also believe that it is important to make visible the presence of women in certain sports-related professions, such as the profession of referee, which, for the most part, has traditionally been exercised by men. That is why we want to carry out awareness-raising actions for the fight against sexism in sport, for example, by collaborating with sports federations, also proposing campaigns to promote basic sport that highlight female figures in sports mostly practiced by men, and also vice versa, male figures in sports mostly practiced by women, in order to put an end to prejudices. In short, I believe that we must all make a greater effort, look to the future and provide weighty solutions for all women. I believe that we must be ambitious and not conform and continue to make progress in this struggle, until we achieve effective equality between women and men. I used to quote Clara Campoamor and I want to end one of her dates. Clara Campoamor said freedom is learned by exercising it. So, ladies, let's be free to be equal. [[Greetings.]] The President On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mrs Elsa Artadi has the word. Elsa Artadi and Villa Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies and deputies... Thanks to Montse Pineda for the brave, consistent speech, and I didn't think of any better way to start this monogram ple today than with the speech you've made. Thank you also for the tireless work you always do and for all the help you give us from the entities, from the National Council of the Dones of Catalonia, to whom we also welcome, and also to Lucia. Certainly, and before we remembered the same Montse, in a few months we would celebrate the twenty-five years of the Fourth World Conference on the Dona de Beijing, which achieved an unpublished declaration, signed unanimously for the 198 countries, and a work plan that allowed us to consolidate significant advances in the equality of women and men in the world. Twenty-five years later, the women see that they are in peril right which we have already conquered. Instead of continuing to advance in our rights, in some areas, in some territories, we are more on the defensive of not losing what we have won than not continuing to advance. And it is that in full 21st century the most radical right, fascism, has settled again among us, the European territory, the United States and the Latin America. A fascism, an ultrathreat that has different forms but shares an authoritarian character, a preference for homogeneity before diversity, for hierarchy and order before equality, above all with homophobic and masculist discourses. Today on the European continent there are only four national parliaments where there is no presence of ultrathreaty, and up to eight countries have seen how ultrathreaty has been present in their central governments in the last two years. In this way, reactionary and threatening positions are progressing towards women's rights in different materials in later decades. In matters of equality within the pair, of the right, but also from access to avotation, to decide on our own, of the struggle against male violence and for a real and effective equality. They are threatening feminist entities and questioning elements as basic and as elementary as quotas, which allow us today to try to achieve parity in parliaments, governments and, in general, in power spaces. That's why today's monogram ple is so important. July 1st we made a plethora of women – before I made reference to it too – and it certainly served to strengthen the relationship of Members with women's entities, which also makes us question whether we need to make a plethora of women only to make this happen. But I need to take measures that are real, that have a real impact, and not symbolic acts that may seem more like time. We understand that the moment is difficult and that this is why we work together, because this affects us all, because no woman has achieved the rights of what we enjoy today for herself, because all the rights of what we all enjoy and the rest of the women have been conquered before by other women who have struggled and who have been risking their lives. That's why they also get strange at times speeches of the nameless liberal feminism, which we find profoundly individualistic, before a struggle that is collective. Because we can't be free one by one and because the fight is everyone's. That's why we call slogans like "If you touch one, you touch all of us, because more than games, more than acronyms, we have to keep working forward, because it's everyone's life, the life that's in danger. The threats are multiple, and the fascism that penetrates through speeches by political leaders and referents also enters into behaviors of daily life. The political correction, which has therefore served to maintain policies and measures that avoid offending vulnerable groups, language and discriminatory behaviour, today is also threatened by the ultra-right, which I want to mask as a lack of freedom and even the so-called 'censorship'. To talk about these positions of hatred, maintaining hate speech as it can be "feminism is cancer, it is to exercise hatred. Denialism, which we also have here, which is basically denying an evidence to escape from a reality that is uncomfortable, even if it is verifiable, that is empirical, it is also an exercise of hatred. And when negationism is ideology, when it's used to make politics, then it allows us to continue watching without anything. Let's go back to talking and normalizing concepts like domestic violence, that what you want to do is to love a reality, and reality is that violence does have a genera. If it wasn't that way, if the violence doesn't have a genera, let someone explain to us where are the more than a thousand men who in theory have been killed at the hands of their peers or their exparencies. To describe man as a real victim is a form of colonization of the human rights of women, to approach the language of the feminist movement. To demand the effective persecution of false complaints, where the Attorney General of the State, an organ that is precisely not a feminist mass – you say that practically never happens – is to make a constant question of the victim of male violence. There are no other crimes in which the victim is questioned. Only male rape, and above all sexual assault. This is putting into danger the fight against institutional violence, a fight that is very hard to get into the judiciary, the police, the care systems. And that's why they don't fire all the alarms. Speeches of hatred where they pretend to make believe that inequality is a natural state of things; discourses where feminism is intended to present as a victim, or worse, discourses using words like feminizers, which, in band of being banalizing the horrors of Nazism and the Holocaust, is a strategy of the very ones who want to maintain the masculist system of which they are taking advantage. The reality is another. In three centuries of feminist movement, there is no person who has been assaulted, killed, executed, tortured, kidnapped or disappeared. It never happened, nothing about it happened in the name of feminism. The neoclassists, the demand for masculinity that resorts to insult easy, verbal aggressiveness, are also making it happen that we call the "Overton window", which is the rank of ideas on which we believe it is acceptable to be discussing in public. And it's that today, in the Twitter era, where insults and threats are the easy resource of certain sectors, it's very difficult to deal with it in an effective and serene way. So, a few days ago, he celebrated COP25, where Greta Thunberg was one of the most media characters of this finding; if we analyze Spain's Twitter of what happened, he got up to fourteen thousand disqualifications. Men call her the bitch, the hysterical, the stupid and the lame. And what they do, the band inviting her to the bulls, obviously, is put audios of erotic twins on her veil. The wedding is seventeen years old – seventeen years old. And some, who feel threatened by women's power, by the young power and by the power that denounces the current climate emergency, find that the best way is to make sexual intimidation and insult. Karl Popper defines the paradox of tolerance as that a society that is unlimitedly tolerant will end up being destroyed precisely by the intolerants it wants to protect. That is why we believe that there are speeches that cannot be allowed, those speeches that precisely legitimize structural rapes, because they are the ones that have generated as a consequence inequality, oppression and the death of women, hate speech against women that are reproducing the hatred of those who have already suffered. The democratic principle is certainly based on pluralism, but ultra-rights and fascism are not a more political option among the others, but a form of anti-political iron. Their ideas and their programs are neither respectable nor legitimate. Today's presence in politics, institutions, is not residual, has a disturbingly high electoral support. And, as she said the other day, a few weeks ago, Congresswoman Susana Segovia, we must ask ourselves what we do before this happens to the Parliament of Catalonia, as we prepare ourselves, as we can shield our rights, not only from women, but from all vulnerable collectivities. And they certainly call for clear policy proposals, and they certainly call for sufficient resources, because, if not, we may find that one day this is too late. This plethora of us, from Junts to Catalonia, who also serve as an alarm, an alarm to redouble our efforts, because we find that in a number every time major, including in the same international organizations, is creating a circle every time least secure, untenable for those entities, for those activists who defend the rights of women; a concern that some of us were able to see included in the UN Women of the year passed, where, with horror, many of the participants, explained that there was a space of protection, a space where we could speak of everything, they were threatened, they were being coerced for the first time. Let's take advantage of this monogram ple because it's a great feminist action, of sorority, and no one's holding us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.21.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Congresswoman Anna Caula, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.22.0	Thank you, Vice President. I wanted to start with a point that may seem contradictory to which Artadi has now exposed us, talking about symbolism. We got these days an article from Tània Verge's companion, who had previously accompanied us, and we would perhaps make ourselves our own that Oriol Junqueras phrase that tells us that everything is true now, and that symbolism sometimes is also a tool that I must accompany us. I think that from feminism what we can't disapprove of is any ingredient that makes us stronger, and symbolism was powerful, it was a full parliament of only female and feminist cares at the same time. And at the same time, things so, sometimes, trivial as this, a lilac-colored pen, that the Forcadell Carmel brought us all the women by, simply, validating or knowing that this lilac must accompany us in any intervention, the lilac that has signed this joint PR that has brought us to the National Council of the Women. I think that a joint PR, which is only one of the gods that we have each parliamentary group, but I think it brings together a little bit of the whole fan of which after the different groups we have matise. And you'll let me stay with a little rat that you wrote about. God: "Let us identify the different axes of discrimination and address the causes instead of addressing the effects. I think this is hardly the main degree of what we want to prevent, because these effects we know, we know that these effects are that they kill us, that there is a wage, that there is a glass floor, that there is a land of fang, that the poor have a name as a woman, so let us make ourselves not arrive late, that the solutions are found in advance and we attack the causes. From here, therefore, as tools it has served..., as at least part of a parliamentary group that bets on the zip lists: for every woman, a man; for every man, a woman. Therefore, to our parliamentary group, the gaze, 50_percent of the visions we bring is with a feminine gaze. Because we arrive late, in a way we have to recognize that after forty years, that is the celebration that will make the year that sees this Parliament, is the first Ple where the center of this conversation are the women. I'd love for us to hold our eyes for a moment and imagine a different world, a world lila, a world where, when the tales were born, the protagonists were always women, that they were heroes, that they were the ones who made use of their way of being; a world lila on the books of text we found..., 90, 95_percent of the names that have marked our way there are women. What would this world be like at this moment? And let's not aspire to that much, let's hope that this world really identifies us all, fifty-five, that's the reality of our way of doing it. And I've left for this last intervention the fact of talking about co-education and affective education, because I understand that it's one of the most powerful things we have; they're instrumental in building the pillars of just society, free and feminist that we want. The school, and, in general, the educational community – they understand how the educational community all – are the essential tool for working from childhood to respect diversity, equal opportunities and the elimination of stigmatization of roles in the classroom and in the playground, these great powerful tools that make us learn to be and think. And segregation, in general, that generate post-compulsory studies by genera. Educational centres and editorials must also be offered guidance to develop educational materials with an inclusive perspective, and which is a basis for co-education, with a gender-balanced perspective and gender-neutral, ethnocentric and gender-based binarisms. It is necessary to review and evaluate the increase in school curriculum contents so as to give knowledge of the figures of the women of history, science, philosophy, sport, the history of literature and the history of art. When I saw the film The silence of the lambs – that's a long time ago – there was a moment that Hannibal Lecter, with his gaze so penetrating that we all remember, said: "We can only long to be what we know. It's very hard sometimes to join or yearn for assembling what you don't know. Therefore, we offer our children, we offer our society this wonder where to find these references and also to break stereotypes and condition in position future studies and vocations that strictly arise for the will of our students, and beyond the current roles that have derived in studies mostly decanted to cures and to humanistic and social careers, for girls, and technology, for boys. Unfortunately, we can never know of the women that we are here who should have lived if we were educated from co-education, from emotional equality, without the gender roles that they determined to reproduce without just being aware of the role of caregivers and at the same time giving up many things or finding ourselves with that glass floor or mud land that limits our dreams, projects, and, at last, badly, many cases the phonenal rights of having a free and dignified life. And we also come to say here that we are tired, I am tired of having to fight because many times we are caught up; we are tired and tired of feeling for when we come home alone; we are tired of having to prove that they can, that they do not overlap; we are tired of the thousand micromasclisms that accompany us, of this patriarchate that is the cross-sectional and structural mass. And a demand: we've come up with women, and we want to be 100_per_cent women. We no longer want to store ourselves or hear how feverish tenderness, empathy, teamwork skills, demand it and put it at your disposal. We come to offer you another way of hearing the world and relationships, another way of thinking and feeling. I believe that the highest expression is that which gives the 8th of March to the streets, women who are claimed, are no longer women who ask permission, they are no longer women who speak in low vision, but they are women who demand very clearly their rights and commitments. And speaking of compromises, I'm asking you for one, a repte, a repte like women: that when we arrive at different places of power, as we talked to before the company Granados, let's not fail to be who we are. It's difficult, it's very difficult, and it's very complicated, because we get there a little bit, we get there one at a time, and how to turn a gear that's done a lot at its mid. The challenge is difficult, but it is at their hands that when we incorporate ourselves, we do not incorporate ourselves as a woman who assembles into a man, but we incorporate ourselves with gifts to the cent_per_cent. And I'd end up with two quotes that made me think of a little something that reflects what we've all said today since the Faristol. One is from Zhuangzi; he tells us: "The heaven and the earth feed all creatures equally; for much higher than one, he should not believe'supper'; for much lower than one, he should not believe 'lost of value. And finally, Hannah Arendt said to us: "We are not born equal, we become equal as members of a group by the strength of the decision to guarantee each other equal rights. And I would add that we must also claim equal opportunities. So, let's replace ourselves..., this look that today we're converting into a companion with who's left of our legislature, day by day, moment by moment, and second by second. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.23.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of Congresswoman Eva Granados, Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.24.0	Thank you, President. Well, taking the words of Anna Caula, who also quoted me, Michelle Bachelet said that – she says – when a woman enters politics, she changes the woman, but when many women enter politics, she changes politics, right? So I think it's also the challenge that we have, as far as we're concerned, which we're devoting ourselves to politics. In my intervention, you see that we need bold and strategic measures, that the time has run out to ask and to wish, that we want and demand a perspective of gender in the globality of public policies, and also in the promotions of the Generality. President Tora said that he wanted Beijing to be made a reality; I add that we want it to be about us and to be understood, but, of course, we need to see what has been done and what has been done. And to me who likes to talk about the feminism of public power, we must remember that the government's balance in this matter is very weak. If we remember the decisions taken in the past few years on this subject, talking about the feminism of public power, we saw the parties disappear for the schools in Bressol, we saw how the parties were spreading to the attention of dependent people, and that is the antepox of this feminism of public power. And, therefore, what we call them, in this House and we will also convey it to our resolutions, is that works are love and not good reasons, and that, therefore, beyond the words, beyond the statements, it is possible to reach agreements of resolutions that are then also translated into reality. I think of some situations in which women are in a situation of discrimination with respect to men, and I always think of a question that I ask when we are dealing with women from the territory, with companies and with different entities, and I always ask in which situation the woman is better than the man for whom she is doing the labour market and social protection, and when I ask this question is a silence, because, of course, you were thinking and all the variables the women are in a worse situation than the men. But there's not one we're better at, which is when we talk about widowhood pensions. And, of course, that's why we're better off because the widow's pensions depend on the contribution that men have made, and therefore, it's the only space where women have better widow's pensions than men. And, therefore, it is obvious that not only the brettxa of gender in wages, but also the brettxa to pensions, in this case it is a 37_per_cent, we still have much left to reform laws and improve the situation. And the same happens when we talk about reproduction, about the will and the desire to be adults and also to be couples. And I always remember, I who come from the union, remember the businessmen tell us, tell me: "Well, what guilt do I have, right? , if..., of course, if they have to give birth, so, listen'm, it's not my fault, is it? I mean, that's not... And of course, you say, well, at the end of the story is that we have the same permissions, that women do not continue to discriminate because because they are mothers the entrepreneurs and businesses see us as a force, if you want, with less capacity, or that they assume a pass for the company. But I also want to claim the right of the parents to take care of, to have the pleasure of caring for their children, and therefore, both for one and the other as for the joint production system of our social model, we also need to make it possible for the parents to take care of their infants and their co-responsibility. And another example that I also want to put in full has to see... could put a lot of it, huh? : sports, culture, the rural world, have not come out much, but the subject of communication. I remember not doing an act that was done at the Journalists' College; the act is said, "Where are the women? , a series of compromises that we continue to make possible because the women have the presence that touches us, which is 50_per_cent, in the communication media. And do the rest of the CAC data, and, well, so, to all the televisions, but, for the part that we play here in this hemisphere, on TV3, the women are only 30_percent of the information. Therefore, for the part that touches us here – and this is no longer Beijing, it is no longer Europe, we are talking about the ability we have –, "our only teaches us 30_per_cent and, therefore, we are not yet represented. And the same happens when we talk about the right not to be raped. Montse spoke before her neboda, other companies also said: the right to go out to the streets, to the parks, to run, to party and to come home without anyone having to watch you or to have to go home. So that's all we've got going. But I gave them before what works are love, and not good reasons, and, of course, I want to put in full what remains to do to the Government of the Generality. And I'll do it with a construction, but we're also undermining and we're still aware that if there's a lot left to do, for the part that it's on the first bench, that's our government, the executive council, it's also working. The government at these times makes the joints decide whether or not they are promoting gender equality policies or caring for women with male violence; this is the situation we have when Councilwoman Budo negotiates with the Catalan joints. At these times, all that we do about the importance of the response to male violence... we only have eight women's services in this situation, we only have fifty-nine professionals in Catalonia who are attending... and these services, she advises, some cannot even get there with public transport. I think we have a right... we will have to agree, but in any case, these announcements that have been made, and my company, the Bea Silva, that have asked more than once, and that we have approved..., we need the SIADs, the SIES, to be more and more accessible in order to be able to attend to the combination of women who receive male violence and who are threatened in our country. In fact, we can't apologize, we have a government that can act and doesn't. I wanted to take a date... well, it's not a date, because it's a comment that Marcela Lagarde made to us at the last find made by the feminist women of the Lower Llobregat, the socialist women, and she spoke of "insistential" feminism, because we carry signs insisting. So they will find the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance the dialogue, but also perseverance and insistence because the Government of the Generality does everything possible – I said earlier – for the Pact against Masclist Violence. There will be a lot of headlines in this House, but I would like to see the Pact against Masclist Violence as a fact, and as soon as possible. Because the counselor told us she'd make a commission of impulse and reflection. No, it's already pushing, it's already thinking; what we need is to put black on white and put parties and start hard to finish. Because, look, 2017 signed the State Pact against General Violence in Spain, and the whole parliamentary arch agreed to it – all of it. And the socialist government, without any presuppositions, has been making and has been legislating, something in which its government, in the years it carries, has not done what it played. I'll be all right. When the PSOE arrived, everything was about to be done. It was approved during a government of the People's Party, that is, but the first law that the socialist government brought to the Courts was the formation of legal operators, in specific formation, and that was pulled forward. Then there was the return of competitions to the gatherings, which had been treasuries, and also went forward. Also, to object that victims may be without complaints, or that consent of the abusive father is not necessary for infants who are victims to be assisted. It's all on the way. We have also made it possible to activate inter-institutional dialogue and coordination between the autonomous communities; three sectoral equality conferences have been held. And we have guaranteed the stable funding of autonomous communities and joint ventures to develop these skills. All this could have been done from the state government. What we ask of him is that the government of the generality does the part that he plays. And that's why we want to move it is if they think about reversing the assumption of 31_per_cent in 2010; what kind of money, what kind of resources they want to spend on fighting gender violence; where are the units of value – I think it was Lorraine Roldán who said it before – a forensic integral... The only one in Catalonia did it by President Montilla, he didn't go back to doing anything else. We need these units, which come out of the State Pact against Masclist Violence and which the Government of the Generality has not done, and they know that its landing on the Catalonian traurial march of the head of the autonomous communities that less orders of expansion are dictating. My company Bea Silva will present the motions for resolutions. I have talked a lot about male violence, I have talked a lot about assumptions, in many others: about housing emergence; about single-parent families; about women who are sleeping in the street, who are the weakest of all; about caregivers; about workers in the street... I think we have a lot of work, that we must be able to agree, but – I said to the beginning – it is not only a matter of agreeing on resolutions; it is a matter of the government then complimenting the effect of what Parliament agrees. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.25.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.26.0	Thank you very much. Members, President, Counsellor, have been, the truth, very nice, very interesting to feel the President's intervention in a plethora like this; we think it is a gesture that is important. For our part, of all the things that have been said, even though some of us have already heard them, we do want to highlight one in concrete terms, and it is that, for which we have understood, they have announced that they are willing to make the reform of the Law of Masclist Violences to incorporate in it the institutional, digital, and consent issues. We understand that what you mean is that you are willing, the groups that support the government, to give support to the handling of the proposal of the law that we presented about fifteen days ago and that I just include these three aspects, right? We have already said in the question that we did to the councillor before, a year ago this House approved a motion that was just said to have changed the law for this subject. We waited one year; after one year there was no initiative on the part of the Government, so we worked with experts who worked on Law 5/2008 and who worked every day with victims of male violence to present this bill proposal, which, as you know, has been registered a little more than a week ago, and we understand that it is the space and it is the time for this Parliament to be able to debate the amendment of this law, precisely in these three aspects that you were commenting on. So, really, what we understand is that as soon as all the periods pass we can prioritize it and that we can have the debate about this proposal of law as before better here in Parliament. So, in any case, thank you for supporting this initiative. We have not had an answer until now, but we understand that they have taken advantage of this moment to actually accompany the need to do this debate here in Parliament. We have told you many times that we believe that, indeed, we can agree on many issues with the groups of the Government, with the interventions made by the Councillor, with the one made today by the President, but also that – and we have said it many times – we need to move from words to facts and that, when one is to the Government, moving from words to facts is moving from words to resources. And the counselor laughs, and so am I, because we're... like we've repeated it many times. That is why I want to make an act of trust and believe that in this case, taking into account the issue we are talking about, the Government will effectively listen to and implement the motions for resolutions that we will adopt in the debate of the Dieus, because life is going on with us, because it must be valuable because our lives are going on and because many of these measures that we will present to the different groups, both from opposition as well as from the Government, are right to do so: to save the lives of many women, to put up masculist rapes and to guarantee equality between men and women. But I think it's also worth urging the government groups to be brave, and I also told the previous motion that we voted, re, it doesn't really do, a week ago, and that it actually made it possible for many of the agreements that were in the motion to be drawn forward, because we believe that it is precisely the government groups, together for Cat and Esquerra Republicana, that can take advantage of the proposals that are presented here to be brave and to support the Parliament that requires, among its functions of monitoring government action, that the government responds with concrete measures and policies. We're talking about assumptions, we've been talking about assumptions now, too. We will insist very much... yesterday we presented an agreement for a tax reform which we believe is moving towards a fairer, more redistributive society and, above all, which is also facing the climate emergency through green taxation, and we need to keep talking about spending. And with this we will continue to work and to see who are the priorities that the country requires to get out of this social emergence and that should go to the presuppositions of 2020. And we've said it a number of times: the resources for the fight of male violence are claus, they're phonative. They're not an anecdote, they're not what they're talking about at the end, they're not at the "total," we'll hear from each other. I believe that this message is important, it is important that we make it clear that in these assumptions there must be a clear, specific and visible bet for the fight against masculinist violence, a clear bet to increase the territorial presence of SIES, to increase territorial activity, to ensure that SIADs function as they function and that professionals who provide coverage do so on condition, that they do not do so with these criteria of despair and anxiety and impotence that bring the entities and people who work with the victims, for the inability they have to give an answer when the victims of violence come, when they come with children and children, when they do not have an allocation to give, when they do not have the necessary psychological support. This will, therefore, indeed be a key issue to which the 2020 proposal for assumptions will have to respond. It will also be that there is finally a firm commitment that the Generality's assumptions are in perspective and have a gender impact. This is a key thing to be able to advance in feminist policies and equality policies. We need to know what is spent, but not just to say: "In this department we spend so much and so much, but what is the impact that has been made of what has been spent so far, what is the prospect of a generation with which it has been done and how to continue working because of what we do has a positive impact and, above all, does not have a negative impact. Therefore, making assumptions with a gender impact perspective goes much further than just a report that says, each department, what it will spend on equality policies. We have spoken many times and will insist again that we believe that there are many things to be done with resources but that they also need to be done with political will and coordination. And we've spoken many times... before you, you'll advise her in concrete terms, you've defended the Catalan Institute of Donations. We agree that the Català de los Dones Institute must be, as it is gathered into the law, the pioneer, rector and cross-cutting space of the equality policies of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. We have doubts that it is, we have doubts that it is, because this is what we also see and we get the entities. And probably that's also because you don't have the resources to do it, because you don't have the human engineering team specialized to be able to work well, deeply, this coordination and this cross-cutting. And I'm pretty sure that if we talk to the president of the Català de los Dones Institute she'll tell us that they need resources, that they need to invest more in the Català de los Dones Institute, with concrete parties, with concrete proposals, in order to be able to develop everything that we're giving them. Because it's a very big charge, or so on, it's a very big responsibility, the one that the Catalan Institute of Donations has; that you're in the Presidency is precisely with this intention, with this objective. Therefore, we cannot hold a Català de los Dones Institute which continues to have the same resources from two years ago practically; that during years of implementation of the law it has been explained in 4_million euros this assumption. How can the Catalan Institute of Donations give answers to everything that needs to be done to ensure fairness policies without the necessary resources? Hard. Look, just that the Generalitat for a 1_percent of the entries it has to the finalist policies for equality, it's about 340_million; and that's what the international guidelines say, that at least there should be a 1_percent of the proper entries. We... it's very hard to know how much the Generality is targeting equality policies, and that's what we've been talking about a lot of times, too, it's not new. It costs a lot, because effectively there is no such assumption with a gender impact perspective. Bussing, knocking, knocking for departments, looking at what the plan says, we have come to see that we believe that the assumption does not rise to 0.01_percent of the entrances that the Generality has. It would be interesting to have these data and to be able to work on these data, because what is being asked is that there is a finalist game, that there is a finalist game for equality policies, a finalist game that goes back to everything that all departments do, as they coordinate between them, what is the follow-up to the state pact, what are the actions that are financed by the state pact complement the actions that make the different departments. This, we understand, has also been asked by the National Council of Donations. It's not so hard to see: "This is what we're doing, this is going to the state pact, we're planning, what they've spent 2018, 2019, what we're spending 2020. Because surely this will help to have more efficiency and help to have more impact on the policies we do. And we may even get that once and for all we give a clear signal to victims and organizations that effectively from Parliament and government are facing male rape. Because, I insist, counselor, president, there's our life. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.27.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the paragraph of the MP Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.28.0	Nice late, again. President, I must confess that you have preferred that, as a man, you have done so that from feminism we ask men, that when we speak of feminism, in these contexts, unfortunately, obviously there is a paper on men, you have given up the word and you have given up the space exclusively to the councillor. I can't be saying it there I'm saying it with as much cordiality as I can. Also, when I was listening to them, I wandered into the profound capacity of transformation that feminism has, when I saw a councillor of Junts for Catalonia, of convergent space, citing Angela Davis, a communist revolutionary. And, therefore, faith in the capacity of transformation that feminism has. Even so, from our perspective, and I have already said this in the first intervention, we cannot help the will to achieve equity for what it does to the women of the material conditions in which they live and in the responsibility of the public administrations in relation to the material conditions of life of the women and how they affect all the violences of which we carry late speaking and all the inequalities that pass through them. I've already commented, we don't want a feminism that allows some women to explode under the same conditions that men do. And I will quote another socialist feminist, we would if he also acquired this transformative capacity, Aleksandra Kollontaj, who said: "The woman worker is indifferent to whether her employer is a man or a woman. Abolishing all kinds of privileges is what we seek, rather than having been born in one place or another, or having one material condition or another. And, in this sense, it is obvious, and some of the questions have already been raised by previous Members, from the government there are gaps, there are gaps in intervention and in support of women from different perspectives. One has already landed on the table, and some of the PRs that we will present from the CUP - Creed Constituent are going in this sense: the need to have a network of attention to the surviving women of male violence who are on the rise, who are not precaritated, who are not outsourced and, more importantly, with workers who suffer and often act..., and generate a job of..., by militancy, because they are in a lot of pressure in their places of work – in reference to the women they tend to serve and work in SIADs and SIES. A direct management network, deiem. Moreover, the President, as the Councillor, and some of the Members have spoken about the need to put the cures at the centre, focus on the cures, make the cures sustainable. Therefore, we cannot disapprove of this faristol to ask – and one of our PRs also contemplates – the parliamentary groups that support the Government, Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana, and Catalunya in Comú. We can, in its negotiation work that these days are explaining to us, demand and stop the withdrawal of the Bill from contracts of service to people; therefore, that the Aragonese law is withdrawn, because it continues to deepen in the privatization of services that deal with the work of aging care and dependence necessary for life. If we lay down life in the center, we cannot overlook what is the situation in which public services are found, and public services are outsourced, pre-characterized, with workers who say they are at the limit and pre-characterized. And so, if we're talking about putting the cures in the center, it's imperative to talk about this issue and how this Aragonese law weakens and feminizes the poor even more and harms us and leaves us with this fairness that we are claiming today. There's been talk of sanitation, too. And today and together with the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Communal We can highlight a fundamental question. There's no sanitation counselor, but we'd love to. Before we talked about how the Foreign Law exerts institutional violence against migrant people. Today, the public health system, both primary and hospital care, does not guarantee universal access to health, despite the fact that we have a law that you demand of all people. Today, there are migrant women who, in order not to have a health card, cannot access the right to voluntarily interrupt their barbarism. It is urgent to make an instruction from the Health Council to indicate that we must skip all the barriers that lay a simple health net for us, because the right to decide on our body is a fundamental right and the day of today's Catalonia this right is not guaranteed. I just end up with another question that also refers to the President's speech, and I'm done. You said you wanted to be next to the feminists. We remind them, today, a day later, that the Government of the Generalitat, concretely Railways of the Generalitat, is a particular accusation that it asks 26,000 euros of fine and an entrance arrested young feminists to cut a way of the train. If they want to be next to the feminists...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.29.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.30.0	...it's not coherent people who do it posing as a private accusation. Retired from a time, which already looks like 2018. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.31.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word, finally, the deputy Mrs Esperanza García. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.32.0	Well, the truth is, I didn't expect to have a reply in this specific plenary, because I understand that the positions of the different groups through the use of continued reproaches don't help the persecuted cause, do they? , which is to foster and cooperate and find places of consensus to achieve that equality. Among other things, because I have heard many things from this Faristol and I have always thought that fear does not strengthen, quite the contrary, does not drive, does not liberate, does not help; it is precisely the opposite, paralyzes, and it is also the excuse not to do certain things, not to face certain debates. Fear, exactly. And I've heard a lot of fear from here. I think one of the bases for managing reality well is respect for it, right? , and when much is segmented, when much is partisand, analysis, diagnosis is often not correct, because, since it does not encompass the whole of reality, it cannot face the most complex, varied and extensive challenges it has. In other words, a partisan view, in the end, what it does is that, if the diagnosis is wrong, the instruments for the struggle are not the right ones and the result is not successful. And I've heard a lot of that here, a lot of diagnoses, so, based on fears, right? , sometimes unfounded fears, many prejudices and a few distortions. And what do I mean, in this? Well, I mean, anyway, we don't all believe in equality. Oh, isn't it? In other words, is that the heritage of some parties and the others it turns out that, in the end, we are here almost a bit, so, by some kind of party bull? Or how's it going? That some even give up moving forward. I have not heard of any of the speeches by any of the parliamentary groups, no renunciation, yes possibility, but no renunciation. I have also heard, at last, that we are going backwards in rights. Well, surely, if I ask my great-grandmother she'll tell me no, if I ask my grandmother she'll tell me no; my mother, neither, and I believe that my daughter, in the future, will have better chances than me. Does that mean it's enough? No, no, Does that mean more work is needed? Yeah. But that does not mean, either, in the end, to focus life with this non-denialism, but negativity that does not help at all to face our challenges. Therefore, from the People's Party, of course, we are not going to base ourselves on the discourse of fear or a certain voraciousness of negativity, but on positivism, realistic positivism, positivism that drives and possible realities, are we not? And, in fact, the Government has said..., well, that is, it has made a very formal and very certain commitment to the fight for equality, but it is true that we have been reviewing many actions of the Government and, among other things, one of the things that most hinders that commitment is the lack of budgets. We find ourselves in many actions, precisely, of the Government in the plan of equality without a budget or with such indeterminate concreteness and at the same time so unrealistic and possible of action as structural cost; cost foreseen for a concrete action, structural cost. So what we want is precisely to put the thread in the needle hole, right? , and that is to say, to establish measures which are possible, with budgetary concretion and which, finally, with a full diagnosis of reality, can be successful in terms of progress towards equality. I have said before that our base and vertebrate axis are four points, but it is true that one of them is going to be the most important, you will see it on Thursday, with the proposals, and it is employment. Why? Because we think it's the main, the first gap of generic dysfunction between men and women. Without autonomy, it is difficult to gain access to all other vital circumstances, which are very complicated for women. And, therefore, support for entrepreneurship, which has not been done by the Generalitat during these years, we believe is essential. Technical support, precisely, for women who want to be entrepreneurs is important. Rural women, who face many difficulties and continue to be doubly discriminated against for having fewer opportunities than urban women. But it is true that we also have to move forward in education. And, in education, we have proposed many measures, including online training programmes, which help create what I have told you before, those referents, those female referents, not only in the field of science, but also in politics, but also in sport, and which serve as a guide for women of the future. Also improve conditions; already said: emergency houses and assistance, Barnahus for women victims of gender-based violence... Finally, make reality a possibility and positive speech a tool to improve.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-12-17-4601.33.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The debate is over here, we'll suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Before, however, let me'remember the procedure for the debate and vote on the motions for resolutions of this House. The deadline for submitting motions for resolutions is tomorrow at 9.30 a.m., as at the latest. The qualification and communication of these resolution proposals will be done in a _table that will be fifteen minutes later. And the deadline for submitting the compromise proposals will be until tomorrow, roughly, at six o'clock. The presentation and voting of the motions for resolutions will be said late. Now, let's raise the session. Thank you.
