ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into male rapes]] [[302-00164/12]] The eighth point of the order of the day is the motion following the inquiry to the government on the masculinist rapes, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word MP Jenn Díaz. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone; good morning, counselor. Well, as we did during the interrogation we did with Councilman El Homrani, during the past plenary, we continue to denounce that male violence has multiple forms, and that violence against women, if anything, is structural. We refuse to let go of all the masculinist rapes for the road. We are well aware that feminicides deserve our full attention, and it is obvious that it is urgent. It's not us who deny it and always make it clear. But it's urgent, as I said, that feminicides end, that women stop being murdered, but we don't want to – good morning, counselor – stop naming the rest of the rapes, because it's a structural violence against women and because, somehow, if we get to the feminicides it's because socially and structurally they support themselves with the rest of the rapes may be more subtle and more everyday. The feminicide and sexual violence are also the two peaks, but with the inquiry and the motion that we present today we want to put at the center of the debate that violence, as I said, is structural, and that feminicide and rape are possible thanks to the system, thanks to patriarchy and thanks to normalized violence, the most daily masculinism. With this young man we also want to make a list of complaints to the State, and it is not just our complaint, but they want to collect the requests of the feminist entities of our country. During the Women's Parliament we were aware that all these intersections of feminisms and that, therefore, many of these organic laws of the State that they do are rounding up and chronizing all these rapes. And, therefore, this young man, beyond the work that we do to the commissions, that we do in this faristol on male violence or on public policies that favor the life of women, that make them more equal, the intention of this young man went for another band, that is to make this complaint to the State. We have worked, as I said, on consensus, recognizing that some state laws chronicle discrimination and inequality by reason of gender such as "the law bites or the law of foreign affairs, and therefore we ask again in this deroguing chamber. What we want to denounce, therefore, is that the feminist struggle, without intersectionality, does not arise, and we cannot obviate all the specificities of discrimination, and we cannot forget that the combination of gender with other intersections always results in loss. We talked to Councilman Chakir the Homrani. Gender more racism, gender poorer, gender more than any other social and class discrimination that we skate with society, are increased when it comes to women. They're reporting me again today. This young man is the only one who wants to do this, to put it back together that violence is structural, that violence when it comes to women has this double victimization. And to finish, because precisely now, and we also talked about it at the inquiry. So, I'm not saying anything that we don't announce to the inquiry, the height of the extreme right is to put another shot at the women's point of view, denialism is something that has been institutionalized. Vox has 52 escons from which to make an incendiary speech and at all perils. And we'd like to end up with a name, which just says a lot of things: Nadia Otmani; I don't know if they know her, but she's the woman who put her in the face of the most masculistic and institutionalized fascism the other day. Nadia Otmani, a survivor of male violence, the German from whom she was murdered, stood face-to-face and looked at Ortega Smith face-to-face to tell him what we don't have to forget any day: that Vox has entered the institutions and that he should shame us all who follow him. Nadia Otmani represents many of us, and that's why we want to finish this intervention with her name, and remember, as was recalled the other day by her companion Naomi López Trujillo, that Nadia survived the assassination attempt of her sister-in-law and saved her life, and that if she hadn't done so, she would not count on the official account of a victim of male violence, because the person who tried to murder her was neither her partner nor her exparel, and therefore also claim there and to think there, that if Nadia Otmani was dead she wouldn't count as a victim of male violence. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented to the motion, the first word is on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Beatriz Silva. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.4.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. On 8 March, this Parliament discussed three motions which raised some of the main problems affecting women in Catalonia. The three motions contained necessary and complementary proposals, and in the discussion prevailed the spirit of reaching agreements on a cross-cutting issue in our society: inequality affecting men and women. Unlike last March 8, today we are discussing a motion that, instead of moving towards consensus on male-based violence, tries to focus on other issues, some of which are related, but which are not at the core of a problem as serious as the violence women suffer from simply being women. Focusing on the gag law, which, by the way, the Socialist Party has committed itself to repeal, without proposing a single measure to improve a network of care that in Catalonia reaches only one_of_each_ten women who are estimated to be victims of gender-based violence, is not the best way to contribute to the solution of a problem that 64_per_cent of women in Catalonia have suffered at some point in their lives. The existence of gender-based violence is not the fault of the laws to which this motion refers or at least not in the way it raises it, it is the fault of a patriarchal system that has been in force for centuries. Institutional violence is not its main cause, it is one of its manifestations, which must undoubtedly be eradicated. But it would be good to acknowledge that our institutions are also working on it. For example, most of the political formations in the Congress of Deputies have committed themselves to reforming the Criminal Code in order to prevent the continued production of sentences such as those of La Manada. Over the past year, the Government of Spain has devoted great efforts, with budgets inherited from the People's Party, to allocating resources to enable the deployment of the state pact against gender-based violence. A pact that seeks to eradicate part of the institutional violence to which this motion refers. In the meantime, what do Catalan institutions that have the competence to combat gender-based violence do? We have a law, 5/2008, which aims to eradicate macho violence, but which has been waiting for more than ten years for its regulatory deployment. What has been done in this legislature to advance its deployment? I myself asked the Councilwoman of the Presidency at the last plenary session, and nothing has been done. In 2010, investment in women's policies was already cut by 31_per_cent. However, since the start of the legislature, all the proposals that have been brought to this Parliament to increase investment in equality policies and in combating gender-based violence have been voted against by the parties that support the Government, including the one that presents this motion today. In September, during the general policy debate, it was impossible to start a commitment to the 2020 budgets that would even increase by 10_per_cent the resources devoted to combating macho violence. The two motions for resolutions that came forward were against Junts per Catalunya and the Grup Republicà. Throughout Catalonia there are only eight specialized care services to care for and recover affected women. In these eight services, 59 professionals work, 59 professionals for all of Catalonia. Waiting lists for a psychologist's attention are for months. In 2018, only 103 homes were allocated to women who needed to stay away from their attacker. What would these women think if they read that what this motion proposes, on November 25, is the repeal of the « law of gallows, without making any reference to their urgent needs, if they knew that despite Catalonia has received 12,8_million_de_euro in 2018 and 13,7_million_de_euro in 2019 to deploy the state pact against gender violence, the comprehensive forensic assessment units, which are an indispensable tool for assessing the risk of victims and establishing protection measures, are still not implemented. Catalonia is the community that dictates less restraining orders. Why? If we have the money to start them up. Nothing's been done. This is also institutional violence and it is on the part of Catalan institutions. I do not say this, says the 1993 United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women, which states in Article 4 that "institutional violence is also not to allocate budgets that guarantee the protection of victims and their care. From my group, we have tabled some amendments to move forward on these issues, but we have not even been proposed a compromise because they involve compromising resources. Resources to improve a network, and I would like to repeat once again, which reaches only one_of_each_ten women who are estimated to be victims of violence in Catalonia and who depend on our institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.5.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Mrs Naomi De la Calle's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.6.0	Good morning. Violence against women is the highest expression of inequality and sadly we have started the week with the murder of a woman allegedly at the hands of her partner, reaching the number of fifty and two women murdered in what we have been doing for the year. To eradicate macho violence, public representatives must show unity to end the inequalities that women still suffer and to activate all resources to eradicate this social scourge. In the motion put to us by Esquerra, we find precisely that missing, concrete policies that have a positive effect on the fight against inequalities and macho violence. Victims need concrete measures and the necessary economic and human resources. And I remind you that it is you government, and therefore those who have the ability to do things. At the first point, we already find a misconception and we welcome the fact that they have realized that mistake and accepted our amendment, since we cannot but say that there are certain groups that are more likely to suffer from this violence, such as women with disabilities or women without a home. And the Assisi Centre already warned last Monday at the demonstration, that 52_per_cent of homeless women have suffered physical assaults, 32_per_cent sexual assaults and 56_per_cent violence within the couple. We share, of course, that education is an indispensable tool for promoting the values of equality and we also condemn the growth of the extreme right, and we are surprised that you too do so by putting it in writing when you are ruling with it and because you have invested a president who claims that we run the risk of dissolving ourselves in the face of the immigration avalanche. [[Greetings.]] I do not know whether it is more a question of a lack of coherence between what they do and what they are putting to the vote or an excess of cynicism. They tell us about institutional violence and demand the repeal of the Aliens Act, the Labour Reform Act, the 'gag law', the Housing Act, and mix barbecues with merinas, claiming that these laws are the cause of inequality between women and men. Institutional violence is to violate the rights of all Catalans, as you did on September 6 and 7, 2017, or even sit in this Parliament who wanted to choose "consellers for the size of their breasts. They say that the Aliens Act pushes women towards exploitative mafias for sexual purposes. We believe that in any case what is institutional violence is to refuse to regulate sex work so that anyone who wants to exercise his or her freedom can do so safely and, on the other hand, to pursue pimping firmly. We believe that what is institutional violence is to refuse to combat sexual harassment at work, by relying on articles suspended by the Constitutional Court. And feeble favor you do to women who suffer harassment at work when you lie about it. Article 33 of the Catalan Equality Act was suspended by the Constitutional Court because it was in favour of article 7 and article 48 of the Spanish Equality Act; a law which obliges, inter alia, the Generalitat to implement specific measures to prevent sexual harassment and harassment on the grounds of sex at work. And you, in order not to do so, hide that you have annulled articles of Catalan law, and omit that Spanish law is already forcing you to implement those measures. They have to do it, but they don't. This is institutional violence. Not to mention the Catalan Housing Act of 2007, which obliges them to create a public park of social housing that is equal to the European average. They have to do it, but they don't. Yes, it is institutional violence. And, finally, they intend to demand a modification of the judicial elements so that there are experts in the trials of male violence. But this amendment is not necessary, because the Spanish Gender Violence Act of 2004 – fourteen years ago – already includes it in an additional provision; but Catalonia is the only Spanish community that fails to comply. This motion does not include a single specific measure to combat macho violence. And, look, this is an evolution in the budgets of programme 322. [[the speaker shows a graph]] therefore, it is the programme that includes women's policies and the fight against macho violence since 2008. And, look, as you can see, all the governments that have paraded through the Generalitat have cut this game, already since the time of the tripartite, because nobody is saved here. This is the budget line that hangs, for example, on telephone 900 900 120, which, by the way, leaves no trace on the phone bill, is a telephone for the victims of male violence, or the service for the care of women. This is the departure of these services, and this departure has been cut. We made them an amendment that called for the reversal of precisely these cuts that have suffered from this programme, and they have not accepted it. What good is it to the victims you give great speeches, if you then cut down the policies that would have an effect on the eradication of this scourge? Because you are the first to take photos and the last to make politics, and the victims need less words and more facts. They're ruling. Leave speeches and please do something. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.7.0	To fix his position he has the word, in the first place and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.8.0	Good morning, everybody. Perhaps the ones that should be left with words and speeches are those that whiten Vox; but, of course, this is an obvious fact that we have repeated many times... [[Greetings.]] I didn't think I'd start like this, did I? But there's no way – there's no way. I thought I'd start by talking about the young man we're talking about, who's a young man from the Republican Group, who we really have to say that he's got a little bit of a crush on us, too. In fact, we were already surprised by the inquiry, where the reply of Councillor Homrani seemed earlier to be the institutional clond of an activity of masculinist rapes than an answer to an inquiry, where the government is supposed to talk about what the government does and what the government should do to fight masculinist rapes. Because yes, actually, they were speeches, they were words, they weren't proposals, they weren't actions. But, come on, we were hoping the lady, so it was a little more purposeful and more forceful in that sense. Mrs Diaz told us that the only one she intended was to reaffirm a series of consensus..., I mean that she is fine, but that she is still curious that in this Parliament of Catalonia, in a motion about male-based rapes, we are not talking about what Catalonia and the Government of the Government of Catalonia have to do to combat male-based rapes; it is, as a minimum, curious. Because in this Parliament we need to be able to talk about everything, but also about what the Government of the Government of Catalonia does and does not do, and that seems to be what this young man doesn't want to do. I don't know if it's because maybe we don't have a law in Catalonia that you don't do institutional rape to women, because it's asking that some people go ahead, that we actually vote for it, but I think that here, for example, the details in assumptions, that has also been commented on, is a way of institutional violence, and that we carry two years on the Catalan Institute of Women, for example, it follows with the same 8_millions that it had four years ago, when it was approved the Law of Masclist Violations, and this is also institutional rape. Don't put resources in it, too, is institutional rape. So it's okay to look at what we can do more than Catalonia, but maybe we should also take advantage of it to talk about what we can do in Catalonia. Of course, we will give support to the movement, because yes, because they are consensus, because they are things that we have found many times, that we have rejected many times... What is happening is that, unfortunately, it is certain that we need to repeat it once and for all; we need to insist and be repeated, because it seems to be lying that these very things are being blocked in order to deny these evidences and these obviations. Because there are actually those who are trying to deny them; there are those who have accessed institutional places and who are supporting governments and who use the fact of being in these institutions to prevent institutional declarations and institutional acts from being made on the day of the struggle against masclistic rapes. And I won't mention them, but we all know who they are and why they are and who favored them to be where they are and who does. And, said that, I would also like to make a call to this Parliament, because they are not there now, but they may soon be there; then it would also be good for us to start thinking as we do because their presence in this Parliament does not prevent this Parliament from making institutional statements and institutional acts on the day of male violence. And that's what I think is a challenge that we have all parliamentary groups now; not when they're already there, but now. Start working on it and start thinking about it. But I did want to insist on telling the Republican Group that it would be good if we talked about everything that could be done from here; that it would be good if we talked about the Critical report that said that the reversal of the Department of Justice in the courts of male violence had been spread over €1 million; that it would be good if we talked about the pilot project for education, that it had started now, that it was up late, that it had just gone up and that it had gone up badly, and that at the last encounter of feminist schools there was a lot of criticism on the part of peers, seas, teachers and centre staff, that they said it was a project but that they were not yet seeing the resources, the training, or the orientation that they needed to apply it to the classes. And we have said it many times: it is patriarchy, which causes male violence; it is patriarchy, and it is capitalism. And either we start fighting these things from little ones, from zero to three, from our childhood, with our children and children, or we'll spend all our lives repairing male victims, and that's when we do it, because many times we don't. So, we either have resources and we volunteer and we give the tools and we give the answers or we don't get out of this male-violation situation. The women who carry mesos, spend mesos waiting for a habitation to stay 'heels and their creatures; yesterday we felt a few examples of the act that there was here in Parliament. This can't make you see that it doesn't exist, can't make you see that it doesn't happen. And I'd like to take advantage of these last few seconds to make a call to all the groups, those who are in the Government especially, those who are in the Government of the Government of Catalonia and those who are trying to make a progressive government and a government of change to the State. From there we follow, from there we are, please, whenever we talk about the struggle against masculinist violence, we think and say what we can do; not only what the others have to do, but what we have to do. This is the responsibility in the fight against masculinist rapes. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.9.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, of the MP Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.10.0	Good morning, all of you. A timely motion, with the obvious coincidence with November 25th, the international day against masculinist rapes. Yesterday, he left this intervention prepared with the terrible 30-two dead women to the Catalan countries in which we are carrying a year, and this morning we took with us the news that a man put a woman on fire in a park. Therefore, thirty-three dead women to the Catalan Countries, a tip of the iceberg that is explained in this motion and all of the questions that we obviously share; a motion that we can obviously give more as a manifesto, as a consensus, as Mrs Jenn Díaz welcomed, but that we cannot be sure that there are no concrete questions, especially from a young man who sees part of a party that supports the Government. We obviously agree that in this context, in this tip of the iceberg where the Catalan Countries already count thirty-three dead women, there is a conjunct of rapes, also the institutional, as has already been said, that make women's lives at risk. We find public institutions with a judicial system that plays its part, that revictimizes, that blames us and that in no case protects us. The cases are numerous and some, the most media, have made you see that everyone in the state's judicial system doesn't give any guarantees. But we also find ourselves in the public policies that we do from the Generality..., which we possess of dignity the public policies of the Generality in order to be able to move and to give support and care for the lives of women. We are convinced that the dismantling of public services or labour reform, as also indicated by the motion, will precarize and place women in a situation of vulnerability which often does not allow us to escape situations of violence, which are important, and which we can do from here. We fight from this perspective what we call, don't we? , this capitalist system« patriarchy as an enemy to fight, and we must look and see in this sense... And we're missing a lot of concrete questions that I'm not going to talk about, and especially linked... from the information service and attention to women, the lack of fairness in the territory, that we could put in there... and, obviously, the investments that there would be. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And I'm done, President. Also we ask ourselves or ask ourselves, in this concern, that we add ourselves, about the rise of the extreme right..., as if the lefts– and here we also make a special inquiry to the Republican Left – we ask ourselves what we do to change the material conditions of the popular classes to avoid this increase of the extreme right. And here...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.11.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.12.0	...from a gender perspective we have a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.13.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs Esperanza García has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.14.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Well, macho violence encompasses all those actions that contribute to the systematic impairment of the dignity, esteem and integrity, both physical and mental, of women and girls. It is true that it begins in education, establishing roles that do not allow the totally free development of girls and, therefore, education on equal terms; and one point is referred to in this motion in this respect, since it is fundamental. But it also exists in our society in expressions that are tolerated, when not applauded, when not ignored, that occur both in civil society and in public offices. And these expressions are of maximum gravity and have not yet been condemned. Expressions such as: « To which I had the thickest nipples give the carrec, « I am not clear that Mrs. Cospedal knows how to pass the vacuum cleaner, « I would beat her to bleeding. I have not yet seen a single word of condemnation, no assumption of responsibility for these phrases. It is also true that policies can help or tarnish that right to equality of women, and those policies cannot consist in reducing the productivity gains of civil guards who become pregnant or ill-treated, and that is currently being done by the Government of Spain. Therefore, cross-cutting policies, recognition of reality, improvements in public resources in those policies, improvements in a state pact that we drive by being in government and that, indeed, after its review and implementation, must be evaluated and improved. That's our DNA, that's our commitment, that's what we've done and what we're going to continue to do. We will not, therefore, support all those manipulations and deformations of laws that have little to do with strict and differentiated application between men and women, that is, Aliens Act, Labour Reform Act and, of course, not Citizen Security Act, because one of the things that has to do with the Citizen Security Act is the prohibition of offering and enjoying sexual services on the public street; at best it seems to you, to us, of course, not. Therefore, responsibility, government, improved policies and, gentlemen of the Government, begin, at least, in the public service to have a protocol against sexual harassment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.15.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mrs Aurora Madaula has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.16.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, Councillors, Well, today we're back in defense of a motion on male-based rapes, and we're talking about multiple male-based rapes because, unfortunately, there are many, there are multiple male-based rapes and it's true, as you tell the young man, that there's a long way to get to feminicide, which is the tip of the iceberg, but there's no other kind of psychological, physical, sexual rapes. And I want to make an incis, in this case, a special mention of the rape there is in the world of teenagers, especially the asexual rape there is against teenagers. Sexual violence that, in 22_percent of cases, is donated in the pair or in the sex-affective relationship and, in 63_percent, in the public spaces and the spaces of the oci, these teenagers who can't get out alone and we want them alive, we don't want them brave, we want them free. And for this reason, I welcome the motion that we approved in Parliament to ensure that emotional education entered the compulsory curriculum from childhood education and also the program that was made from the Interior, the Department of the Interior, the « Don't miss one, from protection to the space of the eye. But today, we are talking about institutional violence. The institutional violence that I am surprised that some groups in this House, this Parliament, do not agree. I'm sorry, but this society is unequal, we have an unequal society, and institutions don't protect us as they should protect us in women's rights. And, above all, we have a problem in the Spanish judicial system, because, forgive me, but until we have a state, the judicial system is the Spanish judicial system. And, yes, it's true, in Catalonia it's where there are fewer orders to go, but it turns out that the system is the Spanish judicial system, that's why [[Funnel veils]] Some of us want a Catalan judicial system, so some of us want a Catalan state... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.17.0	Quiet. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.18.0	...because this Spanish judicial system is deeply patriarchal, masculinist, and injustice generator... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.19.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.20.0	And yes, it's unfair. Why won't they tell me that the feelings of La Manada or of the feeling of (removal of the voice persists) "La Manada de Manresa? They won't deny me that these feelings are unfair. (Applause.) Will they deny that to me? No, hello? So it's a system that doesn't protect us, that doesn't protect women. And it's true, there's also a proposal in this case, because it involves the formation of judges and staff of institutions in the field of gender-based violence, we can't agree more that this formation should be introduced. But, yes, we have a problem with institutional violence, but we also have a problem with the rise of the extreme right. And what's the problem? Oh! The whiteness of the extreme right that you and your people do when they rule, you and your people... [[Widow's remorse.]] If they want, another day, I'll give them a lesson on what the extreme right is. [[strong remorse of the eyes]] But for now, it's you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.21.0	Quiet. Quiet. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] You've got to wait. You've got to wait. [[Pause.]] Quiet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.22.0	It's not nervous, who rules with the extreme right is you, but it's not pathetic. Who whitens the extreme right is you and is not just Vox, whitener either CitizenGO or Make You Hear. Remember when they got very nervous because from the government of the generality it was forbidden the circulation of buses of the shame of Hazte Oir. [[Widow's remorse.]] I didn't interrupt them. Give me a little respect. Little shame is to rule with the extreme right, lords of Ciutadans; this is of little shame. [[Widow's remorse.]] But, well... look, as if they won't let me talk, I'll just give them an anecdote about what happened last week. They invited us to a debate in ESADE, we talked about women and politics, and it turns out that the students who had organized the debate were facing threats for not having invited Vox to this debate. This is what makes the extreme right, the fascism and the rule with the extreme right and the fascism, which wants to end with human rights, which are the rights of women, and with the rights of the LGTBI collectivities. That's what you do when you whiten the extreme right and when you rule with them. Not only that, but now they want to move from male to intrafamily violence. Oh, with the record, right? The domestic violence that came from the franchise, eh? Yes, they're Francos, they're Francos, and you're ruling with them. And that's the problem we have, which is why it increases the extreme right and that's why they're increasing the cases of violence against the woman, because these gentlemen – if you can say ‘sirs' – of Vox, with whom you rule, deny male violence. And to continue fighting for the rights of women, we must continue fighting with feminist policies. Hence, from here: "Visca, visca, visca la luita feminista! Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.23.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Widow's remorse.]] To pronounce on the papers, has the word, again, Mrs Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.24.0	Thank you, President. Well, it's still symptomatic that when it comes to the Spanish judicial system or whitening the extreme right, they're just nervous about a bench. I understand that we have not made the motion that you expected, on the part of the opposition. I also think that this is not the only space we are debating on male violence and that, therefore, this motion had a line, it had an intention, I understand that, as I say, it was not the one you expected, but I do not think that there is a motion on consensus and that there is not an adequate motion, above all, taking into account the current situation in which we live, with this peak of the extreme right, that we give for sabudes some things that are not so much; therefore, this motion, while it is aimed at the State, and at the Women's Parliament, there was a phrase that bothered many of this chamber, many of this chamber, but that said: "The states are unprotecting us. So this young man was on this line. The papers submitted, most of them were not accepted because, as I say, there was no intention with this young man. And the only thing I wanted to say to you, is, yes, more specific, to Mrs. Hope, which is that the application of laws is not what makes a law male or not, but this system as a twist and as these laws end up perverting the original law. And I'd like to end by saying that..., noting the shame that she supposes that Queen Letizia is rewarded for her commitment to male violence, probably the only woman who, if you suffer male violence in the realm of the pair, could not divorce her assailant. Thank you very much. [[Crits of "Very good! Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.25.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Mrs. Granados, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.26.0	Yeah. Good morning. To ask for separate vote from point 1.b and 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.27.0	What can they vote together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.28.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.29.0	Yeah. [[Marina Bravo Sobrino asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.30.0	The 1.b and the 3, but separately and, besides, the 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.31.0	All right. Any more requests? [[Naomi from Sifré Street asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. De la Calle.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.32.0	President, for contradictions by Mrs Madaula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.33.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.34.0	Yeah. Mrs Madaula has mentioned a transfobo bus that came, a few years ago, was in the last legislature and says that there were people who got nervous. Here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, the only ones that got nervous were your parliamentary group, before an institutional statement that could not be read in this Parliament, which was because of the homophobic talks by Mr Philippe Ariño, which I drafted with my own hand and which you, well, the Parliamentary Group of Junts pel Yes did not want to sign in its entirety and therefore could not be read in this Chamber and we had to do whatever the parliamentary groups we did support him. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.35.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Esperanza García González and Aurora Madaula and Giménez ask to speak.]] Tell me, Mrs. García and Mrs. Madaula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.36.0	I'm sorry, President. I don't know if you've been asked to vote separately from point 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.37.0	From the point?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.38.0	Two.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.39.0	Two? No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.40.0	Okay. So that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.41.0	All right. Say, Mrs. Madaula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.42.0	For allusions. Well, as a matter of contradiction, if you will. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.43.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.44.0	Well, yes, Mrs. De la Calle. It's just that I wasn't a member of the previous legislature. I was talking about the bus from last year... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] I meant the bus from the past year... if they let me talk... it's just... it's a little... [[Someone says, "It's the whole intervention that's been going on, too.]] They're nervous. I was talking about the bus from Hazte Hear that finances the Vox party, with which you govern in Andalusia and Madrid. Thank you. [[Crits of "Very good!]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.45.0	Thank you. We'll vote point 1.b, to start. The vote on point 1b begins. Point 1.b_has been approved by 74 votes to 4, with 53 abstentions. We're voting, now, point 2. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 127 votes in favour, against and 4 abstentions. And we're voting, now, point 3. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 73 votes to 40, with 17 abstentions. And we're voting, now, point 4. The vote begins. The quarter was approved by 91 votes to 40. We will now vote on the remaining sub-points to vote on point 1. The vote begins. These points have been approved by 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions, that is, unanimously. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the rise of ultra-rights to Europe and the impact of the Spanish State's repressive drift on European construction as a democratic community of shared rights]] [[302-00162/12]] And let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into the rise of ultra-rights to Europe and the impact of the Spanish State's repressive drift on European construction as a democratic community of shared rights. Presented for the Republican Parliamentary Group, to expose it has the word the deputy Adriana Delgado.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.46.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselors, deputies, deputies. Well, the motion we are presenting reaffirms the commitment of independence to the European construction project, but not to any Europe: we are talking about building a democratic community, a community of civil and political rights. It is also a matter of concern and re-emerging, of course, at the height of the extreme right – and, yes, we are also talking about whitening the extreme right – and about denouncing the Spanish State's instrumentation of European institutions, which puts at risk precisely this construction of this Europe of shared rights and freedoms. As Vice President Junqueras said, we have been unjustly locked up in prison, we are independent of the Spanish State but European federalists, who are betting on more democratic community institutions. And this responds to a political project that connects with the republican political tradition of building an international order to fight political and economic domination beyond the state of birth. It is what the philosopher Philip Pettit calls "the republican law of people, a project that allows the creation of spaces of dialects and transnational alliances beyond the borders of the states. With this hope, many understand the European project as a solution to the famous trilem of Rodrik's globalisation. Faced with the impossibility of maintaining globalisation, democracy or being born as the main political mark, we make a bet to globalize democracy beyond being born. Nevertheless, in the day-to-day period of European construction, it is clear that new asymmetries have been created between southern and northern states, but also between sub-state groups. The European project has strengthened the pre-legislative executions, the state-run camels to the detriment of sub-states, the large political parties to the detriment of the small, etcetera, nine asymmetries that have not solved ancient dilemmas and, on the contrary, have not created us. At the heart of these dilemmas is the instrumentalization and political appropriation of the institutions by the states and major European parties, as we say at first, the great coalition which, in fact, rules the institutions of the European Union in a perpetual way and does everything possible to avoid turning the European space into a political debate area and maintaining it, as it is now, as a space for negotiation between states. If we want the European project to survive the assault of the new extreme right taking hold, this compromise must be a firm compromise, a compromise to ensure the free exercise of civil and political rights by citizens. Precisely what Salvini, Le Pen, Farache, Orbán, Abascal wants, is that if Europe exists it is a Europe subordinate to the state, a community subordinate to the state, and that these have the last word on determining the rights and responsibilities of the citizenry. It is the same message given by the Supreme Court when it does not await the opinion of the Court of Justice of the European Union before condemning Junqueras. It is what the Spanish institutions have done when they invite, for a band, President Puigdemont and Councillor Comín to go to Madrid to swear the Constitution, while they keep Junqueras in prison and prevent them from completing the procedures to become an MEP. It has been precisely six months since the election with the Euro MPs, precisely. Let's go back to the dilemma. The Spanish State and the European institutions must decide between making a strong bet for dialogue and democracy or feeding the extreme right on the basis of not everything, on the basis of repression and on the basis of justice. And, if the Spanish State makes the European institutions complicit in this action, it will make them weaker before the extreme right, if the political parties do not filter the extreme right, whitening and validating it. And they'll tell me how to practice filter when it systematically starts the legitimacy of accusing democrats of political crimes. The unit of action before the fascism is not compatible when we have Ortega Smith of particular accusation and democrats like Forcadell, Bassa, Junqueras, Romeva, Forn, Turull, Rull, Sánchez and Cuixart in prison; it is incompatible. The solution to political conflicts goes through dialogue and democracy, abandon repression and work for political solutions. The solution also goes so far as to understand that this is a European problem and that the solution is also in Europe, to democratise the distribution of internal competences, to find deliberative mechanisms to modify internal borders, etc. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And I'm done, President. The Catalan political conflict is not a problem for Europe, it is an opportunity to face present and future challenges and to build precisely a Europe that is stronger and more democratic. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.47.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented has the word, in first place and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.48.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning. Today the Republican Parliamentary Group presents a more in-depth motion, trying to draw a picture of a repressive, non-democratic Spanish state, where they are vulnerable to rights, and then looking for a European mediation menu before a supposed injustice. The report they are presenting today is not new: they speak of democratic timing, of the Supreme's disrespect to European institutions, of rights of representation violated in an arbitrary manner or of disrespect for the will expressed in the ballot box, of expressions and of what they need before their own, but reality is coughed up and imposed. In fact, from the events of 2017 and as a consequence of these, there have been ongoing judicial proceedings, hearings, judicial proceedings that may be more or less pleasing but in the wake of a state of law and a community of rights and freedoms such as the European Union must take place and which, at the same time, can also be used for the proceedings envisaged by the same state of law. But what you are doing in this text is making a presumption of non-democratic functioning of the Spanish judicial system, and also prejudging: you are talking about the opinion of the Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Union as if it were the pronouncement of the same court, and you know that it is not true, that it is an opinion that does not bind the court, that the judgments are still just now beginning the deliberations for such a decision at a later time, and that moreover this Advocate General has separated himself from the consolidated jurisprudence of the court, which has clearly established that the national law is applicable to the proclamation of the European Parliament's elections. But in this case they also criticise a supposed instrumentation by the Spanish State of the European institutions. And you say that you are talking about the United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention, a working group, as if it were the same General Assembly of the United Nations. And, on the other hand, they do not mention the European Court of Human Rights, which unanimously endorsed the suspension of the 9 October plenary session, saying that the suspension was necessary for a democratic society, which prevailed in the interest of public security, the prevention of disorder and the protection of rights and freedoms. This is what is relevant to the international community and to the community of rights represented by the European Union. And Spain is sure that it can have a better democratic quality, just as Catalonia can have it, but it is certain that we have higher standards than the Catalan Republic would have of the laws of disconnection, as we recall that today the supreme defenders of freedom turn out to be the judges elected by the same president. Please! But I'm going back to talking about reality. And Spain is a democratic state; they recognize it – you know – the lawyers of the process, they recognize it the same Joan Tardà. Spain is one of the countries with few complaints and convictions to European courts, with a mid-range similar to that of Germany, Holland or the United Kingdom. But as the text advances, the great excuse appears: its supposed concern for the rise of the extreme right to Europe and, in particular, to Spain. And they make it clear that their partners – their partners – have sought and all of you have found the support of Europe's extreme right of arrest: the Flemish, the North League, Salvini..., so many others. Not to speak of the unfortunate attempt to intersperse the recognition of Catalonia as being independent for that of Crimea; regrettable and painful. And they also do so without any self-criticism of their responsibility in the ascent of the extreme right, without any reflection on whether their unilateral drift from the 6th and 7th days did not awaken a beast, a beast that surely existed camouflaged in other options but which has been dealt with with with xenophobic, racist, masculinist, Francoist expressions, which we condemn and which we consider totally out of constitutionalism and which, in effect, some have laundered mass quickly, until today they are in institutions, while in France and many other countries what they have done is to articulate sanitary cords and political strategies of winging these extremisms. Here, in change, PP and Ciutadans quickly gave them the condition of normality. That is why we will vote in favour of points 2a, 2.b and 2.f, where the main political institutions and actors are called upon not to normalize fascism or whitewash their policies, where they are asked to work hard with the extreme right. And, however, I would like to warn you that I hope that you do not have to hang on to your seat, that you do not end up voting like Vox, against a government presided over by Pedro Sánchez. Let's hope you don't think about it. To say, of all kinds, that we have presented a message to them, that we regret that it has not been accepted, that we have highlighted the urgency of a policy of dialogue in the framework of respect for legality and that we have also urged the Government to start a permanent dialogue with the political forces to find a solution. Therefore, beyond the points I have mentioned, we would vote against this text for its propagandistic character, based on an interested report, supported in lies, that it is only necessary to justify its cause, a cause that has already proved to be sterile and unsuccessful. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.49.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the word Mr Josep Costa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.50.0	Thank you, President. Today is a good day to talk about Europe, democracy and the extreme right. From Europe, to contrast it with the Spanish State, when we once again, repeatedly, have our fellow citizens who are free throughout Europe and have our fellow citizens who are committed to the Spanish courts. Democracy, because yesterday it took six months of the European elections and because the vote of the majority of Catalans has not yet been recognised, it has not yet been allowed for the Supreme Court, the Electoral Board or the European Parliament to take possession of the deputies representing the majority of Catalans in the European Parliament. And on the extreme right, because every time it is more obvious that it is the fact that this party, Vox, leads the political agenda of the Spanish State the fact that it is extending the Spanish State of Europe. This is why this young man wants to give a touch of attention to the European institutions. Europe has a problem, the authoritarian drift of the Spanish State is watering them too far, it has watered them already to do things that should never have happened. There is an example in which Tajani did not allow MEPs elected to enter Catalonia in an absolutely arbitrary manner, as if he were a discotheque wearer. But also a more recent example, and I think it still means more, which was given in view of the Junquera case last month. We thought that the European institutions were designed to defend the general European interest, to defend the rights and freedoms of all citizens as European citizens. What was our surprise when we saw that at the Court's hearing in Luxembourg the European Parliament and the European Commission were represented by Spanish lawyers who defended Spain's interest and did not defend Europe's interest. This is not our Europe. Our Europe is a Europe of rights and freedoms. But that, fortunately, is not the whole of Europe. The attorney general left them in evidence that day, the same day in view of the Junqueras case, to these Spanish lawyers who spoke on behalf of Europe. And he left them as evidence, above all, when he published his report, his conclusions, to gather as appropriate, to make his own the arguments of the defense of Junqueras and the defense of Puigdemont and Comín. The Spanish repressive response is compromising the European Union. The attempt to retaliate democracy in Catalonia and the Spanish State is already putting European democracy at risk. Fortunately, as I said, this is already getting more and more evident every day. The fact that Vox is defending the National Audience in the European Parliament, as happened yesterday, and making the ridiculous, this is opening eyes to many people. Yesterday, the Spanish State was in evidence three times in Europe: with this vote of the European Parliament, where Vox was left alone defending the National Court and repression against the CDRs, but also when the general lawyer disallowed the use of the envelope, the use of the Euroorders to prosecute political dissidents, and also when the European Court of Human Rights, which was quoted a moment ago in the Faristol, re-condemned the Spanish State for not processing resources from people working in the Spanish State. Therefore, it is every day more the attention that comes from Europe. Europe would be well advised to join the far-right agenda that has been imposed on the Spanish State. We also need the Spanish State to stand out from this far-right agenda, we need it to respect the election results, we need it to respect the Catalan vote, and we are convinced that ultimately Europe will do so. We have not failed, we have not surrendered and we are about to win this battle of rights and freedoms, of rights to the European Union. This is a young man, as I said, who is a touch of attention to the European institutions of Europeanism. We're not Eurosceptics, we've never been. But we want to be demanding, we want to be Euro-demanding, if we allow ourselves: we want to demand that Europe return to the origins of democracy, of rights and freedoms, and that it once and for all is untapped by the authoritarian drift of the Spanish State, that I do not allow a day more than the European institutions to be instrumental in persecuting dissidents, in blocking the step of the representatives of the people and in giving cover to an authoritarian drift that has been, from before you exist Vox, led by this extreme right that does not exist, that does not exist for a year, but does exist for a lifetime. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.51.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is the turn of Mr Marc Parés. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.52.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, well, with this motion you have three concerns on the table that we share: the rise of the extreme right, the fracture of Europe as a political project in democratic and human rights, and a justice system that is acute and that makes arbitrary and profoundly unjust decisions. And that's not just what we say, but what the United Nations Arbitrary Detention Working Group says or Amnesty International says. I must tell you, though, that with this young man they also do a cocktail between these three elements, with a language at times a few curos, and this leads to some excessively strong constructions and that, in our opinion, they do not conform to reality. And we think it's a mistake, because it contributes to the banalization of this extreme right, and also to the banalization of injustices to which the motion refers. I must also tell you, therefore, Mrs Delgado, that in the intervention you have made, I believe that they have resolved these three elements far better than in the House. And in this sense, there were two points that we have presented, and I would like to thank you for your willingness to accept them and trade them. First one, point 2.c. Look, not all justice is unfair and not all police use abusive practices or connivance with the extreme right, and, when we have seen it– because we have actually seen it– has happened both in the bodies and security forces of the State as well as in the General Police - Squad Moisos. The speech that Spain is all bad and that Spain is irreformable and that when I change here in Catalonia we do everything well is a speech that to begin with is not true, but that it is more and more dangerous. The second issue was presented at point 2.e. It is true that the rise of the extreme right in Spain has displaced the speech of PP and Ciutadan and that we have once seen the Socialist Party applying recent policies and, in this later electoral campaign, making the speech of Ciutadans. Now, from here on out, it's the same as governments, isn't it? I mean, they're all the same and put them all in the bag of the extreme right, man, so it doesn't seem like it. In fact, we believe that the way to stop the extreme right today in Spain is precisely to constitute a progressive and plurinational government, as proposed by the PSOE, United We Can and In Common We Can, a government that drives social policies, which are the main antidote against the extreme right. An extreme right here, and it has its basis in nationalism, in this association between state and birth, as you have said very well in your intervention, an association that has been overwhelmingly dominant since the 17th century and which has unfortunately also been imposed in most federal states. That's the reality. And that is exactly what we must be able to fight, with innovative proposals and to adjust to our times. There's a new model of territorial organization for Spain, which broke with this association between state and nation. And that means recognizing that Spain is a country of countries, a state where there are various nations, and Catalonia is one of them. And it also means recognizing that these nations, in the framework of a multi-national state, are political subjects, not just cultural ones, and as such have sovereignty. But in the 21st century, in my opinion, we have another great challenge, which is to articulate these sobrieties between different levels of government. Let us bring sovereignty closer to the citizenry, because we follow the citizens and the citizens who can decide everything, and not the great economic, political or financial powers. And at the same time we have to understand that, in a world with global natural problems but with causes and consequences that are manifested at local level, as well as that we are able to share these sobrieties, share sobrieties with the rest of the people of the State, share sobrieties with the conjunction of the European Union, in order to face problems that are common, that we share and that therefore require shared responses from solidarity. In short, in the face of the extreme right, in the face of nationalism, we believe that the best answer goes through freedom, equality and fraternity. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.53.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Susana Beltrán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.54.0	Thank you. The European project rests and is built from the citizenry, for one band, and from the member states, like Spain, for another, and rests on values that are fundamental values for all European citizens, to which we do not want to renounce: human dignity, respect for human dignity, respect for freedom, respect for democracy, respect for equality, respect for the state of law, respect for the human rights of everyone. All these are the values of the European Union on which this project rests. You, separatist parties, on 6 and 7 September 2017 did not respect these values that build the European Union, did not respect them. When they used the majority, the majority of them in parliament, to push the right of opposition, of the Members of the opposition, who were defending the positions of millions of Catalans, did not respect democracy, did not respect the state of law, did not respect the human rights of millions of Catalans who did not meet the positions of the separatist parties, did not respect the European values. And you don't get it, from that 6th and 7th..., from 2017, where you did complete counteractions to the European construction project, this project of pau. And it's that they don't... or I sometimes ask that you don't, that with your actions and your writings you are deeply anti-European. Have you read Mr. Torra's writings, Mr. Torra's supremacist writings? I will read them a trosset; there are many but I will read them a trosset: « Today we realize, stupid, that we are there where we were. Worse still, that the sense of national urgency has multiplied and that there is a risk that the nation will be torn apart like a sugar in a glass of milk, intertwined between the immigration avalanche, the monstrous fiscal expoliation and globalization. Have you read these supremeist writings, which have been condemned for the main parties of the European family? If these writings are the maximum expression of the extreme right to Europe! [[Greetings.]] They are the maximum expression of the extreme right! That they don't get it? Don't they get it? Who is concerned about European citizenship? Is this European project a project between Member States and European citizens? Who cares? Does Mr. Torra care, with his writings? Does the Government of Torra care, that it is unable to guarantee the European freedoms of movement of goods and people, for example, to Jonquera? Is the Government of Torra concerned about European citizenship? Is the Socialist Party or Catalonia concerned in Comú Can we guarantee the equality between citizens, who are more likely to share even more Spain, in account of guaranteeing the equality of rights between citizens? Or separatist parties, which are more pending than self-determination? Who is concerned about European citizens? Without going further, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union is clearly aimed at the 21st century, clearly for a citizenry or for a Europe of states; of states, and for a Europe of citizens, not for a Europe of peoples, which is a concept of the 19th century. The Charter of Fundamental Rights does not diminish self-determination, it is thinking of guaranteeing the equal rights of all European citizens. Why? Because to be European is to build a future in which any citizen can gain. And that is why, before the death of the attacks of nationalisms and populisms, at the heart of the European Union, at the heart of the European project, which is also our heart – it is also our heart, European citizens – we, European citizens, will defend freedom here: here in the Parliament of Catalonia, in the Congress, in the European Parliament, and also in the world. We defended freedom, European citizens! Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.55.0	To fix his position he has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.56.0	Thank you, President; from the escó. Well, we'll give support to most of the points of this young man, but we'll also abstain in some of them, and I'd like to point out the reason for this abstention with four basic references. First of all, we consider that this young man has a problem, and it is that he expresses an idealism and a European utopianism that respects the European Union that does not correspond in absolute terms to the real European Union known. This still sounds a little bit like that old idea of the first phase of the independence process of 'Europe is the ideal and idealized democratic reference, 'Europe looks at us, 'Europe expects us... And, listen, vagrantly insist on this thesis, which I see they're still insisting on, because that generates a lot of frustration in a lot of citizenry. Because people believe it, that Europe is democratic and Europe is looking at us and waiting for us, and that is not true. Therefore, you are insisting on generating a very hard frustration. Vagina counts. If you look at the economic, social, military and foreign policies of the European Union, there will be no real reference to this Europeanism that you profess at these times. Secondly, it is very good to criticize tolerance and connivance with the extreme right in the Spanish State, but we were very pleased that you spoke of the connivance of the Interior Council with the actions of the extreme right in public space in Catalonia. Many of us suffer and, unfortunately, we will surely continue to paint, this protection to the public expression of the extreme right and this repression continued to anti-fessism. Therefore, we were very pleased that you made reference to this. And lastly, you also refer to the fact that the inaction of the European Union in relation to the anti-democratic excesses of the Spanish State undermines confidence in European foreign policy. Listen, European foreign policy is continually self-destructing. You are told an example of European foreign policy that is democraticly defendable. Not one. I look at the effects of European foreign policy on the world: an absolute disaster. We do not understand how you still want to defend European foreign policy. And lastly, what you are proposing is that Europe must have a neutral and mediating position. Mirin, this is not going to happen – this is not going to happen – more than at some point some judicial or legal institution of the European Union, due to strict legal rationality or liberal democracy, gives the right to our anti-repressive aspirations and censures the Spanish State. But the European Union is a club of states, a club of financial oligopolises and multinational companies that, today, will be at the side of the status quo. Therefore, we will only assume that the European Union will change its position if we win our political battle for self-determination here. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.57.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Daniel Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.58.0	Thank you, President. The truth is that the proposing group sees extreme right everywhere: it sees extreme right in the European institutions, it sees extreme right in the Kingdom of Spain, it sees extreme right, obviously also in the Spanish justice... Now, it seems to me, it has given me the feeling that it did not seem to see the extreme right in the Spanish justice before the sentence only five years from the scoundrel who killed a person in Zaragoza for wearing straps from Spain, and that it had also left tetraplegic to an urban guard in Barcelona. There you haven't seen extreme right. Besides, I see some smile slipping between this bench. There you don't see extreme right. Do you know what's going on? That we don't believe them. We do not believe them, because the proponent group is the old Republican Left, always couptist, always, and whose highest leader, yes, whose highest leader, has been condemned for sedition for seriously attacking Spanish democracy. We do not believe your concern, because you, the old Republican Left always, governs with the extreme right, whose maximum responsibility in the government, whose maximum responsibility, has left pearls in writing that make you a leading student of Le Pen and leave Salvini, that European friend of yours who gets fucked with the stellate for Europe, leave you as a mere amateur. And we do not believe that, either, because you, that circus of extremes that are the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, in the absence of parliamentary variety, have to beg in each plenary the support of the phylobatsun party of the CUP. (Laughter.) That's why we don't believe it – that's why we don't believe it. You know that if you really have concerns about the extreme right, what you have to do at once is call elections. Call for elections, put real ballot boxes so that Catalans can put an end to the genuine democratic anomaly that this government of Catalonia represents in Spain and in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.59.0	To pronounce on the exams, has the new word the deputy Adriana Delgado.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.60.0	You see, there's been a lot of talk. From the outset, we must insist that legitimizing the extreme right is sharing spaces with demonstrations. What strengthens it is that there are parties that depend on their votes to rule or to form majorities. Legitimate, whitewash, when you understand part of your speech. And I repeat it again, as I said in the first intervention, and as it appears explicitly in the motion: it is with Vox that the PSOE shares accusations in the court, and this does legitimize the ultrathreat, that it does awaken the fascism. [[Greetings.]] It is clear that the influence of the extreme right is, there is and they say, because, for example, at the Madrid City Council, in which PP and Ciutadans governs with the support of Vox, three_ thousand plates are removed from people who are fused for the franchise. They denounced this, but then they showed impassive when the Madrid Assembly voted to illegalize the independence parties. We see the ultrathreat, but we have to see it all the way, huh? So, who awakens the fascism? And, in any case, thank President Sanchez, to make a few second choices and allow Vox to swallow these spectacular results. [[Greetings.]] In Ciutadans, to the PP: what made the Spanish State late in 2017 was to impose the rule by law on the accounts of the rule of law that you would call yours in 2017, when it was only said that people participated in a democracy act, and it denounces a lot of people, because the repressive drift has not done more than grow, from then on. I ask: why have they translated to the castle the writing of President Torra, who was obviously in Catalan? Why did they denounce yesterday that the Barcelona Assembly, in its announcements, put in castle those people who theoretically do this negative role? Why, this, today? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.61.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. [[Josep Costa and Rossello ask to speak.]] Yes, say'm, Mr. Costa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.62.0	Mr President, to ask for the reading of paragraph g of paragraph 1, before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.63.0	Thank you. [[Daniel Serrano Coronado asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.64.0	Yes, President. To request a separate vote on items 2a, b and c. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.65.0	Mrs. Granados? Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.66.0	Yes, for a separate vote on sub-items 2a, 2.b and 2.f, which may go together. [[Marina Bravo Sobrino asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.67.0	Yes, ma'am Bravo?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.68.0	Yes, to vote separately on 2a and 2.b, which can go together but not with the others that have been said.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.69.0	All right. So, if there's no separate vote request more, we'll vote in the first place on points 2.a and 2.b. The vote begins. These two points have been approved by 127 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. We're voting now on point 2.c. The vote begins. This point was approved by 71 votes to 57, with 4 abstentions. We're voting now on point 2.f. The vote begins. The 2.f_point was approved by 92 votes in favour, 40 against and no abstentions. Now we'll vote for the rest of the vote. Before, however, we read, as requested, point 2.g. Ask the secretary Mr. Campdepadrós to read it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.70.0	"Requests the exercise and the safeguarding of all human rights and fundamental freedoms before those Spanish institutions and entities of the extreme right that claim to violate us, in particular the rights of freedom of expression, gathers, manifests and self-determination, as well as equality between women and men and non-discrimination for reasons of any kind.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.71.0	Well, we'll vote on this point and the rest of the remaining points of the motion to be voted on. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 75 votes to 57, with no abstentions. [[Ask the Government about the encouragement of the gender perspective in vocational training studies]] [[310-00257/12]] Let's move now to the next point of the order of the day, which are the questions with oral answer to the Government. And the first question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà, the deputy Mònica Palacín, and it is about encouraging the gender perspective in vocational training studies. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.72.0	Thank you, President, good morning. Counselor, the current legislation in force talks about combating gender stereotypes in what affects format studies and labour markets. It is established that the department competent in the field of educational policy, in the field of non-university education, must encourage, from a gender perspective, the knowledge, dissemination, interest and access of women and men to all vocational training specialties. The presence of women in all professions is one of the priority objectives of the policy for equality applied to all Member States of the European Union. It may break the topic that there are professions more suitable for men than for women, and thus facilitate the integration of women into the labour market, not only in terms of quantity but also quality. The only limit that a girl or girl must have at the time of choosing a profession is her own motivation, ability and ability to develop it, as well as a knowledge, as real as possible, of the labour market, outside the gender stereotypes that condition and determine the role that women and men occupy professionally and socially. The real and effective equality between women and men has not yet sunk. And not just that, but the percentage of women in mostly male studies is laughable. There is segregation in segregation in the election of studies. There is segregation in certain occupations. Cal, therefore, has a hard time in terms of actions that accrue to absolvement. For all this, counselor, what actions has the department developed to encourage the gender perspective in vocational training studies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.73.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word has the advisor of Education, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.74.0	Thank you, President. Member, really from the Department of Education we want to promote gender equity in vocational training studies, which are key to the employment and vocational training of our young person. The data tells us that you have studied there with a very high underrepresentation of genes. This is the case for the formatting cycles, for example, of industrial, electrical and electronic families, energy and water, mechanical manufacturing and installation and maintenance, in which, in course 17-18, the percentage of registered women was of a mean of only 3_per_cent. This mean is lower, and even lower, than the mean of male presence in studies with greater presence of women, such as those serving the person or personal image, where men represent only 7_per_cent of the enrolled. These industrial formative cycles, in which women are much underrepresented, offer qualifications for which there are gaps in the world of work, and which, more than that, are higher than other economic sectors. All in all, since the Education Department we have promoted the registration of women in the format cycles linked to the industrial sector, with a new policy of orientation, and especially with the 50_per_cent bonus of the public registration fee. This is the first time that a similar measure from the government has been promoted, and we do so with the full conviction that it is necessary to combat gender inequality in these sectors, so that there may be more female presence and that this becomes a reference for the youngest. In this line, we are also a student implementing similar measures in areas where there is a lack of male referents, such as the degrees they have to deal with cures. By this measure we want to contribute to making visible also that cures are not just about women, but they are all responsible, and this is basic to achieve full and real co-education, which is the department's goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.75.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about Amnesty International's report on the Supreme Court's ruling against independence leaders]] [[310-00258/12]] The next question is about Amnesty International's report on the Supreme Court's ruling against the independence leaders, and the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Ernest Maragall. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.76.0	Yes, thank you, President. He would advise, I wanted to ask him, after all we have experienced in the last few years, in the last few months, and especially in the last few weeks, what we have to hear from Justice, with capitals, but also as we have to interpret the most recent facts of the flagrant injustice in which we are still installed. Last November 11th, we met with Amnesty International's report on the Supreme's feeling, which condemned almost a hundred years of our new political prisoners and prisoners, a valuable report, from an entity always cautious at the time of positioning. A report that we may not share at all, that might not have all the strength we want, but precisely because of that it has a substantial value in its criticisms. Amnesty says it was a fair trial. We, honestly, disagree. We do not understand how an unfair feeling, as the report acknowledges, can be the consequence of a just judgment. We also understand that it goes from points for the violation of guarantees, which are not minor, such as the right to judicial guardianship, to a case that is now being tried for the same four different courts: the National Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia and the Court of Instruction number 13. In any case, they are differences that give even more value to the conflict with which Amnesty International disallows the sentence, the time to demand the immediate release of Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart, the time to qualify the definition of the crime of siege that the Supreme Court makes as contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. Amnesty International's report is just the last setback that various international organizations have made in the last few days: Human Rights Watch, which denounced the excess of police violence; the PEN Club International, which claimed the freedom of prisoners; the United Nations Human Rights Committee, which claimed the freedom of Jordi Sánchez so that he could not be invested; the British Parliament Speaker, who claimed the Speaker of Parliament, Carme Forcadell; the United Nations Arbitrary Detention Working Group, which claims the freedom, also, of prisoners, in terms that is precisely this week. Now it is Amnesty International; tomorrow, according to the position of the Advocate General of the European Union, it could well be the Court of European Justice. In front of this, the State only takes the accelerator of repression; the prosecution asks to sue our company Bernat Solé, mayor of Agramunt and deputy spokesman of our group; the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia chases President Torra and the companies Lluís Salvado and Josep Maria Jové; repatriate young people penalized for protesting and being immigrants; ask years of prison for academics and lawyers who were part of the electoral union. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] In front of this panorama, she advises Capella, we ask her how...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.77.0	Congressman, time's up. [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]] Thank you, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] To answer the word "Justice Counsel".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.78.0	Thank you. Good morning. Thank you, Mr Maragall. I will not talk to him about justice, in any case I will speak and value what Amnesty International has said. That Amnesty International demands the immediate inn in freedom of Cuixart and Sánchez, therefore, proves the injustice of the sentence. It is one of the non-governmental organisations of reference in the field of fighting for the defence of human rights, civil rights and political rights of the world, and, therefore, it is not only to be listened to, but to be taken into account. When Amnesty International makes the report with respect to the judgment of the trial, we have to put into value what it says with regard to the sentence by siege, and it says that it is a threat to the fundamental rights of speech, to the fundamental rights of speech, to freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, right to protest, and, therefore, when it says that Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez should be free. We will not tire of saying it, today we are the independenceists, tomorrow will be, therefore, the feminists, the pensioners, Greenpeace, Femen, the animalists, all those people who work and struggle to change the world and to change what we do not like. That Amnesty International demands the immediate release of Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez is evidence of the injustice of the sentence, but it is also a problem for the Spanish State and its international reputation. Amnesty International's report, which we hope will be accompanied by a good campaign of denunciation and solidarity, as it has done on other occasions, must be added to what the United Nations Arbitrary Detention Working Group, the International Federation of Human Rights, EuroMed Rights, International Trial Watch have done, as you pointed out. All this adds up to more with the different opposites that Spanish justice is coming upon, as is now the decision of the Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Union when he considers that Vice-President Oriol Junqueras should be recognised as an MEP. Yesterday, we knew of another position of the Advocate General; last week, in relation to some of the judgments also of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and so a long etcetera. We trust in international justice, we trust it very much, because there we do have the same weapons, unlike what happens to us here. International justice is a long and long way forward that will obviously still coexist with arrests. So more politics and less penal code. That Amnesty International...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.79.0	Counselor, time has run out...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.80.0	...requesting the immediate inn in freedom is a necessity. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.81.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the situation of industrial workers]] [[310-00251/1]] On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, he asked a question about the situation of industrial workers, Mr Pol Gibert. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.82.0	Thank you, President. In the past few weeks we have known a report from the UGT union where there are worrying signs of industrial employment data. Councillor El Homrani, what steps do you intend to take your government to address the increase in EROs that Catalonia has seen?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.83.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the advisor of Work, Social Affairs and Families; it is the Lord The Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.84.0	Thank you, President. Member, Members... Member, excuse me, I did not quite understand the question: "What measures will the Government take for...? And I lost it, I'm sorry, absolutely. If I can ask you again... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.85.0	I'll leave you a few seconds, Congressman, to clarify the first question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.86.0	The question is what measure does he intend to take you to address the increase of EROs in Catalonia. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.87.0	Thank you, President. I'm sorry, Congressman, I suppose we were deafening a mike, and I didn't understand the question. Look, respectfully, there are many; there are some that you know perfectly well: we have called for the return of administrative authority; we are strengthening all the mediation teams; we are strengthening all the monitoring teams, and, most importantly, working hand-in-hand from the various departments of the Generality to detect situations that are likely to occur in a regulatory expedition and to be able to address them in a previous way, because when there is a regulatory expedition, the issue is already much more complex. And it's in this line that we have to work on, at a point that we share with all the industrial societies in Europe, which is industrial conversion at a time when all countries are working with respect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.88.0	Thank you, Counselor. Deputy, you have the word to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.89.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, the later EPA shows us how the Catalan industry has destroyed fifteen_ thousand job places in one year, fifteen_ thousand; all the contrary of what passes to the rest of the State, we have created ninety_ thousand job places in the same industry. Catalonia is leading the destruction of industrial occupation in Spain, and not to go to the EPA to see it, just to go to my region, in the West Valley, where more than a thousand workers have been threatened in the last fifteen days for different EROs. And this destruction is especially concentrated in the automotive sector, a key sector that sends us signals by land, sea and air. The statements of the president of SEAT say that the context in Catalonia hinders new investments and points out how the alternative to divert production to other plants is a sign that should be alarmed, and much. But while his government preaches to give support to the industry, it does the opposite: while the sector is now off, the president takes part in roadblocks and sets up CDRs that literally seek to generate economic losses; while the sector is asking for a support plan, his government has the Pact for the abandoned industry in a covetous and with economic and social agents asking for it to be reactive; while the automotive cluster announces that 75_percent of businesses will have disappeared by 2030 if there is no clear bet for training, you are absolutely unable to set aside the automotive FP centre. One more time we have to denounce this shame, and there are many times we have denounced it. It is unheard of to have a sector in full transformation and to have a center that can recycle more than fourteen thousand workers every year. They are not yet aware of how we regret this situation in a proper future, so, counselor, if they are not able to do their job, they do not at least put the work of thousands of Catalans at risk. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.90.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, again, the word has the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.91.0	Thank you, President. Look, Congressman, I'm the one who's a little more careful, because... I feel like I'm saying this so vehemently, but every time there's a regulatory expediency that leaves family names and surnames on the street, those who haven't done anything to absolve labor reforms should have their eyes lowered. And I think that's the first thing we need to find. [[Greetings.]] Second of all, I think it is important to place it: it is a repte, Catalonia is an industrial engine, and it is a repte that this principle of the week we share with another territory where there is a strong industrial fabric, which is Baden-Württemberg, the repte of the automotive industry and of the conversion of this automotive industry. Last week they presented the basis for the development of the strategic plan of the automotive sector to the Government; we are working hand in hand with all the agents. This is also why there is the SOC's Decree of Territorial Strategies, so that we can work specifically on each territory: in the West Valley, in the East Valley, in the Lower Llobregat and also in the Lands of the Ebre. Importance of the industrial sector. We'll keep working, we're doing a specific follow-up around the industrial field and we'll keep doing it. Now, let's face it: the first problem that industrial enterprises are facing in this country is the price of energy; let's also remember it, because if there is no institutional loyalty among all to face this challenge...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.92.0	Counselor, your time is up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.93.0	...we won't get out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.94.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the ICT Social Health Foundation]] [[310-00252/1]] The next question is about the Social Health ICT Foundation. And the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.95.0	Thank you, President. In 2006 the Government of the Generalitat took the decision to create the Health ICT Foundation with the aim of facilitating the digital transformation of the health and social care model of our country. In those moments he decided not to locate the foundation in Barcelona, but to do so outside, in this concrete case to the city of Mataró, which at that time also worked to set up the TecnoCampus project, a technological and innovation park that enhanced the health sector and the engineering sector. They've shared thirteen years of missions, objectives and projects, and now, a few days ago, we've learned that the Government of the Generality has decided to leave that city, leave the Techfield and go to the health department's offices. Counselor, we wanted to know what this decision is for.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.96.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, you have the word Salut's advisor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.97.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... MP, so yes, it's been twelve years since that decision to put the Social Health ICT Foundation in Mataró, in the space of TecnoCampus. Technology has strongly entered our society, has changed our ways of connecting us, but it also obviously impacts and has to impact – and that is why it created the same foundation – in our health system. [[Pause.]] Hello... [[You laugh and you see.]] We have reptes; reptes, social and demographic changes, that we have experienced, that we are living and that we are living in a very accentuated way, like the aging of the population, like new models of families, new relationships with the system on the part of people, more non-volunteer loneliness, increase of chronic diseases, and repte of the way our professionals work in the system. And this is an unstoppable process in which the Salut ICT Foundation will have a phone book. It's worth saying that we're working on this and we'll keep working on it. Therefore, because the foundation can work from now on towards the future in a more efficient way, we still need the foundation to be with the rest of the units of our department with which it works today rapeseed, which the foundation can grow, and cannot do so at present in the Field Technology, and in order to alleviate these costs that we need to put into our country's innovation projects.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.98.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.99.0	Counselor, a government is not a company that seeks economic benefits. I've said a lot about Vice President Aragones' team. A government must promote social justice, economic progress and territorial cohesion, the territorial balance that we are talking about and so little practice. Look, I think at times, at a time of technology, I'm saying that they need to move some servers because they're more like it seems pretty illogical. I would like to say one thing, before you advanced me: the mayor of Mataró, who was opposed to this decision, offered free space to the city because you did not leave, but the decision was already taken and had been taken unilaterally. I remind you that between 2004 and 2010 Esquerra Republicana was part of a government that bet for the decentralisation of services and delegations, creating, for example, that of the Ebre or the Pirineu, and also locating country institutions outside Barcelona, and placed, for example, the Cesicate to Reus, the ITCat to Vilanova or the ICT Foundation Hi to Mataró. Of these three_1 of disembarkation there will no longer be any. Is this the country you want? , a country that is not territorially cohesive or has territorial balance? Because betting to locate some institutions outside Barcelona is good for the territorial, local and economic dynamics it generates. And, on the other hand, you're doing all the opposite, you're doing a process of clear re-centralisation of delegations, of services... I'll give you an example of the children's oncology service of the Tauli Park that they moved to Barcelona, and now they're also doing it with the ICT Salut Foundation. We don't want this model of country, counsel, we want a model of country where everyone can enjoy and have the opportunities to work closer to home, and also to enjoy institutions that don't need to be in Barcelona to relate to the department that they spend or with other institutions. Please advise, correct. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.100.0	To answer, again, the word has the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.101.0	Thank you, President. Miri, Member of Parliament, has an office of the Foundation ICT Salut a Mataró or Barcelona has nothing to do with how the health system works, obviously, for the territorial fairness of our country. The system of salvation, which has as its fundamental pillar the universalization of salvation, to serve everyone, absolutely everyone and to leave no one behind, with this vocation, obviously, of territorial equity, because it is a basic pillar of the social cohesion of our country, it is that tool that we have as the system of salvation of Catalonia for the social cohesion of our country. So I explained the reasons. And that does not mean to stop working specifically with the city of Mataró. And I'll give you some examples. We're still working, not just with the city, with Mataró, but also with TecnoCampus. Example of this: u, we have presented ourselves to the PECT call, which promotes territorial innovation at the local level, with a project that is led by the assembly and that the foundation is sound, and brings its knowledge and expertise; the foundation continues to bring together students in practices of the TechnologyCampus, and third, we are working colza with the assembly to make Mataró city caregiver, that city that takes care of.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.102.0	Counselor, time is up. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about Climate Emergency]] [[310-00253/12]] The next question is about the climate emergency, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Josep Puig. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.103.0	Good morning. Counselor, we know that from the department that you're captivating you are meeting with various sectors facing the climate summit that is planned for the year you see. Before, however, I ask you the question, which I will make shortly, let me comment on two very fresh news. Three days ago, the World Meteorological Organization released the 2018 xifra of the concentration of winter-effect gases in the atmosphere, and we have once again struck the record: 407.8 shares per million CO2 and increasing, with increases higher than the mid-point of the last two years. It also passes the same with half and nitrous oxide. The same secretary general of this organization makes it clear: "There is no evidence that there is any slowdown or even reduction in order to meet the Paris commitments. Therefore, energetic actions are required in order to be able to resume the situation. Just remember that the last time we had such high concentrations of CO2 in the atmosphere was between 3 and 5 million years ago, where the temperature was between two and three degrees higher, and more so, the sea level between god and twenty meters above current. The second news I wanted to comment on is that today the United Nations Environment Programme Gap was published, which is what compares the emissions we have with what we should have in order to meet the Paris commitments, and it is seen that we are very derailed. Since it's not the job that should be done..., if we want to fulfill Paris's commitments right now we need to reduce emissions by 8_per_cent annually. Reducing a cup like this is a huge challenge, and the more we take action to do it, the greater the reductions we will have to do to honour the Paris compromise. In order to face this enormous challenge, the complicity, obviously, of all society is needed. Can you explain to us what steps the department is taking to involve the various sectors of society in this future climate summit? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.104.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question has the word the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. The Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability ( Damia Calvet and Valera ) Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... MPs, yes, we're actually on a climate emergency. The Government of the Generality made the formal declaration of climate emergency a few months ago, at the first opportunity it had. And beyond this statement, he has also approved a package of urgent measures to deal with this climate emergency. And there is not only this package of specific measures, but in the daily action of the Government, all that we do is not just the Department of Territory and Sustainability, but I am going to say all the departments..., direct their action to combat this climate emergency. And I want to put three examples too recently, they're from yesterday. Yesterday we approved a decree that helps to rehabilitate buildings, but whenever this vague rehabilitation oriented to the energy efficiency of buildings. Or the energy transition decree, to stimulate the deployment of photovoltaic and wind farms. Or the toll subsidies, toll subsidies, which also focused on the climate action of who uses the pay and who pollutes the pay. So, it's a continuous action. And it's in this brand that we have to match the Government of the Generality's will, and I'd say from all over the country, to face the emergence. It's not a question of the government, it's a question of the whole society, it's a question of generational responsibility. And, therefore, it is no longer just to face up to these recent news, it is also to go much further – you quoted Paris – from Paris. The Paris data, therefore, gave us some horizons of temperature increase that are clearly insufficient. It has been shown that scientific evidence makes it necessary to go below and, therefore, to multiply climate action by a lot. It is about exponential action, which means, therefore, much more accelerated, to go under those Paris commitments. That's why the government committed to convene a first Catalan summit before the climate emergency, we'll do it on the 17th. We have started preparing sessions with all sectors, very oriented to the three major pillars: the energy transition, the decarbonization of mobility and the circular economy. We also want to have a preparatory session with representatives of the parliamentary groups in the Parliament of Catalonia. But this first climate summit will not be a starting point or an end point, it is a continuous action that will have to be evaluated, it will have to be corrected, surely, and there will be a second climate summit, sure, and a third. Because the compromise has to be global and sustained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.105.0	Counselor, thank you. Your time's up. [[Ask the Government about renewable energy]] [[310-00254/12]] Let's move on to the next question, which is about renewable energies. And the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the deputy Mr Antoni Morral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.106.0	Thank you, President. Consellera Ángels Chacón, Catalunya has been an innovative country and a pioneer in renewable energy. Despite this, since the year 2010, the wind and photovoltaic power installation has suffered from a power failure in Catalonia. We know that Catalonia's energy future can only be renewable. The generation of fossil fuel-based energy generates significant environmental costs and puts the planet's viability and sustainability at risk. If Catalonia has seen its implementation of renewables reduced, it has been provoked to have a very restrictive standard_framework and to the legal insecurity created by the State in the different wage and standard changes, which have drastically curbed the impulse of renewables. We need to work to establish new models that respond to the energy challenges of the time we live, as mentioned a while ago, and also boost the economic activity of the net energy sector. Institutions need to generate stable brands that include legal certainty so that the implementation of alternative auctions is done with guarantee and on a continuous basis. Climate Emergency is a recognized and approved reality for this government. And in this sense, we need to develop good strategies and programs to reduce CO2 emissions in the medium and long term. The National Energy Transition Pact, agreed with civil society and economic agents, together with the Climate Change Law, have defined the horizons that the country needs to embrace in the medium and long term. Now it is possible to create scenes that effectively allow its compliment, reduce the emission of fossil fuels and that nuclear energy tends to its disappearance, so that renewables take on the absolute role of the new energy model of Catalonia. The whole country has to contribute. And the Administration has to promote it with mechanisms and reforms that, at the same time, allow the people to participate actively in this new, more democratic model, more disconcentrated and giving the protagonistship that corresponds to the territory. In this sense, Counselor, what is the strategy of the Government of the Generality to implement this new energy model in the country, which basically focuses on renewable energies and concretely on their department? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.107.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question has the word "Consellera d'Empresa i Coneixement", the lady Maria Àngels Chacón. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.108.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Congressman. Indeed, the foundations of the National Energy Transition Pact, the Climate Change Law, and the Climate Emergencies Decree and the different motions in this Parliament urged us to implement legal changes to reduce the emission of gases and winter-effects and also to focus a new economic and energy model based on the total independence of fossil and nuclear fuels by 2050. What do we do as a department, as a government? As a government we are fully determined to combat this climate change by fostering this new energy model, as you thought, renewable, democratic, consumer-based, and need to do two things: increase renewable energies and improve energy efficiency. With what? Through three axes. The first, the law for the energy transition that has to establish new models of governance, new strategies and new concrete measures so that all this is possible. Also with the creation of the Catalan Energy Agency. And yesterday we approved this decree of urgent measures for climate change and the boost to renewable energies, a decree demanded for the sectors, which repealed the decree 147/2009, a decree that made compatible the promotion of the installation of photovoltaic and wind farms compatible with the urban regulations and minimizing the environmental and landscape impact. And we also understand that these modifications to the Law of Urbanism, in this very decree, are in this direction. Miri, the government has complied, with this decree, with certain debts that have been devolved from the sector, from the company to the company. This end of the energy transition is asking us all. The government has completed and I hope that by now, when we bring this decree to pass, all the lights of that panel are green and this Parliament will support a path that is decided to foster renewables and this energy transition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.109.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the government about the black lists of the Mossos d'Esquadra]] [[310-00255/12]] The next question is about the black lists of the Mossos d'Esquadra, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.110.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, do you intend to end the ideological classification of the agents of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra? You think you're gonna end up with the black lists in your department?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.111.0	To answer, the word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.112.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, all of you. Congressman, there are neither black lists nor ideological lists in the Squad Mosos Cos.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.113.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.114.0	Miri, counselor, you, the Convergence of your whole life, have classified the maximum commands of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra as a function of your commitment to the separatist process. I don't say you personally, but if your president of reference, the rebel profuge, the one who left you stuck to the half of your separatist government that at this hour, then, is condemned for sedition and misrepresentation. Do you think it's legitimate to classify the Commands of the Squad Cross for your ideology, as it has been from around Mr. Puigdemont? Do you think it's lawful to discriminate against any agent for his ideology? Maybe you'll tell me no, but you know or should know that there are complaints based on the performance of the DAI and the penalties imposed for the return director general. An anti-fouling move has been sanctioned to remind a Generality official, as a popular revolt, that the republic does not exist. But you've also reduced the penalty for a hard offense recommended by the DAI against Sergeant Escolà, to whom you later filed as a personal advisor to Puigdemont's service. Yes, Counselor, the sergeant accompanying you in the proceedings of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office of Catalonia for alleged crimes of prevarication and misappropriation. You, Counselor, continue to allow the use and abuse of the DAI and the resolutions of the Director General of the Police to discriminate ideologically against the agents of the Squadron's Cosos de Mossos contrary to the separatist process. Even though he denies it, and even though they want to rent the face of the DAI with smaller expedients against separatist agents, they should not even continue to act in a democratic police force that has to be served by all the citizens. Certainly, counselor, do you intend to act against the collections of separatist movements that have publicly announced the elaboration of black lists of agents faithful to the democratic order, and in concrete terms the black list of agents who have defended, with great personal risk, the public order in Catalonia the last weeks? Are you going to object to the witch hunt announced against the anti-evasive agents? Yes or no, Counselor? Because if you don't, it's more like a plea.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.115.0	Congressman, time's up. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] To answer the question again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.116.0	Thank you, President. Not to repeat much a story in the end comes true, huh? Mr. Congressman. I mean, not because you're imagining a story and from here the vague repeating often ends up feeling true. In any case, it is surely a council that could give it any other, but I humbly allow myself the luxury of giving it. Look, the criteria they have in the Interior are in merit, professionalism, experience, expertise, and all the processes are authentically rigorous. And if you have something to report, then it's good to report that things aren't good. But don't say it here by letting go of true myths, lies, because someone is making a movie that doesn't exist. If you have anything, you have the whole right of the world to report it to normal channels. With respect to the leaks there was on a list of people, I would ask you to address the author of this list, because I didn't do it myself and so I disconnected it. You can also address the person responsible for the judicial leaks of this information, and you can also ask him why this information has been leaked. Jo, with the Councillor d'Interior, I don't comment on any judicial or police investigations. Therefore, you have to refer to these groups of people or to these people because they give you the answer you asked me. What I can tell you is that in the few seven months, in these few seven months, the Department of Interior has started a contract process of 1,500 squad movements and 500 firefighters, after many years – many years – of not making promotions. I can also tell you that we have carried out internal promotions – commissioners, stewards, inspectors, corporals, sergeants, officers – to Bombers and Mosso d'Esquadra, which made years that did not 'feel. I can also tell you that we have recovered all the investments that were pending, and we are pulling them forward from little to little, all, depending on the economic reality that we have, but we are pushing it forward. And I also have to tell you that by luck and in order to guarantee better the security of Catalans and Catalans an agreement that was produced years ago with the Government of the Spanish State, that it has never produced, it has not been realized, we have succeeded in following, that it is in the CITCO, that the CITCO, being there, and giving much more information, much more capacity to work ahead of terrorist storms such as the one that we have unfortunately suffered on August 17, 2017 and in which the Government of the Spanish State did not allow us to be in the CITCO.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.117.0	Counselor, time is running out. Thank you. [[Some applause.]] [[Ask the Government about gender-based violence]] [[310-00256/12]] The next question is about general violence, and the formula, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.118.0	Good morning, everybody. Councilwoman Budó, this Monday we celebrated the international day against violence against women and today we want you to move from speeches to concrete measures, and there is a measure that can improve the protection of victims and prevent, on many occasions, murders. The State Act against Gender Violence calls for the deployment of comprehensive forensic assessment units. When do you plan to implement them?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.119.0	To answer the question you have the word the Presidency Counsellor, Mrs. Meritxell Budó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.120.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Member, I am pleased that, therefore, on the part of her political formation, she places the fight against male violence at the centre of the debate, and she will know that this unit of forensic value for victims has also been included in the Comprehensive Programme of Prevention against Male Violence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.121.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.122.0	Councilwoman Budó, allow me to doubt your umpteenth promise because you have been 14 years behind in the implementation of these units. What good are the promises to the victims if they do not materialize in deeds? You know that, according to data from the General Council of the Judiciary, Catalonia is the community with the lowest percentage in granting protection orders to victims of male violence. Only 48_per_cent of the orders are granted, as it contrasts with 91_per_cent of the Rioja or 85_per_cent of the Balearic Islands. Do you mean that judges in Catalonia are less sensitive to violence against women? No, they are not, what happens is that this Government has not done its duties as they have done in other autonomous communities. The State Act against Gender Violence called for the establishment of comprehensive forensic assessment units; these units are made up of multidisciplinary teams of psychologists, social workers and forensic doctors who provide a specialized response and help judges to take the most appropriate protective measures. Fourteen years after the passing of the law, Catalonia is the only – I repeat – the only autonomous community that lacks these units. Counselor, have you not seen the relationship between the few protection orders granted and the absence of these units? Is it sexist justice, as we heard this morning, or are governments that do not deploy protection laws or those that avoid opening the melon of the reform of the Criminal Code? Look, the inaction of your Government during these fourteen years has prompted us to present a proposal to force you by law to create these specialized units. And what have parliamentary groups done to support their government with invaluable – of course – help from the commons? To prevent this Parliament from being able to bring this law to this House so that it can begin its parliamentary procedure. Consellera, are you committed here today to working to break that blockade and let Catalonia stop being the only autonomous community that has not taken seriously...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.123.0	Congresswoman, your time is up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.124.0	...the need, the importance of this... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.125.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word again you have the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.126.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, look, tell him that the orders of extension are not issued by the government, they are dictated by the courts and, therefore, he will understand that here I can not answer him, but I will answer him saying that, as I said, the struggle against male violence continues to feel, is a priority of this government. In fact, I reminded him before, this July, we were going to approve the comprehensive intervention programme, the second comprehensive intervention programme against male-based violence, so that we could undertake, in a decisive manner, the challenges we face in the fight against male-based violence. And look if it's a priority of all, that from the different departments of the Government of the Generality is working on a multitude of projects to give response to awareness, prevention, training, repair and recovery of victims. And what else have we done? Look, I can tell you that here in Catalonia we have done a very important thing that it is, coinciding with the international day against masclist rapes, from Catalan society, from all public institutions we have agreed to a manifesto, an institutional declaration with the slogan "Neither aggressors nor accomplices, we stop masclist rapes. Why? Why did we do it? Because our institutions won't let those who deny male violence condition us, because, if we did, we'd be complicit. And I say it with deep sadness, and also with great concern, because, if it turns out that where you govern, you can do it because you allow to relativize male violence, you also make them complicit. If they allow intrafamily rape to be said in male-violation accounts, they are also complicit. Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, the first policy against male-based violence is the constant denunciation of those who deny it; the first policy against male-based violence is the total isolation, in all areas, of those who deny male-based violence, of those you are bleaching with your government pacts, because if you touch one of us, they touch all of us. And here, in Catalonia, from here we won't die. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.127.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the policies for the prevention of ludopathies]] [[310-00250/12]] The next question is about the policies for the prevention of ludopathies, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mrs Marta Ribas. When you want to
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.128.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, according to the few studies that there have been, the later years has tripled or quadrupled the name of playpathies, while the economic amount that is played and the winnings, obviously, of the online gambling boxes and casinos, was triggered. Especially problematic are sports bets and, above all, the online game, where access is not only twenty-four hours, all day, all the days of the year, but much more accessible to the underage. There are psychologists who already compare the current situation of playthings between boys and girls with the epidemic of heroin addiction that ruined the lives of so many young people in the eighties. Ludopathy not only generates economic debts to the person, but family problems and mental health problems; it has become the third cause of suicide in the State. All folded, therefore, already has dimensions of public health problem of first order. Therefore, we have a comprehensive and comprehensive approach, and lead from this perspective of first-class socio-sanitary problems, especially from prevention. What are you doing, Counselor, in this sense of the government?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.129.0	To answer the word has the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. When he wants to, he'll advise.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.130.0	Thank you, President. Member, thank you very much for this question, because I absolutely share the concern. The data that you have said, the data that we have, that are absolutely flagrant, tell us that the prevalence of face-to-face play – face-to-face, in this case – that is much higher in the age range of more than fifty-five years, is increasing dramatically when we talk about young ages, which grows from twenty-three per cent, from fifteen to twenty-four years, and which rises to fifty-two per cent, from twenty-five to thirty-four years. When we talk about 14-year-old face-to-face play, it has increased by 67_per_cent according to some data we have. This is the fact that they allow us and allow us to say with force what you were putting here on the table: what we need to do; we need to act because, more importantly, if this is added to the prevalence of the online game, which is also increasing dramatically and has a special impact on young people, they also force us to act. The emergence of the new technologies has changed the way we relate ourselves and our surroundings, and this is a reality, with a great influence on our youngest people – in our youngest people – which causes, moreover, these sequels that you say and causes us to follow these people, but above all – we say – the best policy of salvation that we can do, the best treatment that we can do is prevention, in the line that you were asking me. Therefore, in this prevention, from the Department of Education, with the Catalan Youth Agency, with the Department of Social Affairs, with the ACC and with the Césicate, we are working together to address this preventive and early-care approach in a coordinated manner. For example, since June 30, we have eliminated online gambling and gambling advertising in the Catalan public media.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.131.0	In order to answer again, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.132.0	Counselor, I list a few things that need to be done. It is necessary to dimension, to know what we face; therefore, data, you study. It's not there, it's not there. It is necessary to prevent, especially, prevent, and at present there is a working group created to act against addiction to the use of the new technologies, the ICT table, which was created two years ago to make a global, comprehensive, preventive plan; it has met two times in these two years and we do not have results. Obviously, we need treatment; we have units of pathological game, of pathological game treatment, various in Catalonia, but very precarious, without resources, without professionals. They have resources, they have tickets from the game, precisely, like the Generalitat that could be allocated directly to more resources here. And it takes regular, regular advertising in the game; they have the margin to do it, not just in public media. It is necessary to regulate the accessibility of the game, it is necessary to limit the physical space of these negotiations. And they have, besides, today a very important opportunity: they could end the Barcelona World project. Yesterday we learned that the license for the Hard Rock Cafe casino, GEPEC and the Aturam Barcelona World Platform have expired, asking you to revoke this license. Complain, with a view to public salvation, to his company Pere Aragonès that ended with the Barcelona World project, with an operation not only speculative, but also the creation of casinos in Vilaseca and Salou, of very large dimensions, because we have a problem of public salvation...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.133.0	Congresswoman, time's up. [[Greetings.]] To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.134.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, so yes, prevention. And for prevention as training, and we'll do that. What training and also a legal regulatory framework that precisely attacks these data we have respect for the pathological game and for this reason our plan on drugs and behavioral addictions from 2019 to 2023 adds behavioral addictions. It wasn't there. Our action plan is always called drugs. The same as our Law of Additions that it is from 85 and that we have already said that we will update and we have explained that for the first time there will be a specific departure from behavioral additions. The goal is clear, that is to protect the people before the game and the bets and the associated risks...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.135.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.136.0	...to the proper use of the Internet, and that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.137.0	Time's up. Thank you. [[Question to the Government on the prospects of the Catalan economy]] [[310-00259/12]] The next question is about the prospects of the Catalan economy, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.138.0	Thank you, President. What value does the government make in relation to the prospects of the Catalan economy?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.139.0	To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.140.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr President, we are making a good assessment, given the context of the global economy, the Catalan economy is still growing much above the mid-euro area, which is our economic benchmark.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.141.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.142.0	Thank you, Counselor. I was hoping for his answer. In fact, I have been able to prove how the website of the Department of Economics compares the growth of the Catalan economy with the growth of the Spanish economy, the chart they present is precisely the size of the third quarter of 2017; it will be because, from that quarter, the growth of the Catalan economy is at the root of the growth of the Spanish economy. And certainly in the short notes of your department you present the data on the growth of the Catalan economy in relation to the economy of the euro area and not to that closest, which is Spanish, so you can say that you are on the edge of the euro area. But, look, the macroeconomic forecasts that you presented in June say that growth in Catalonia would be 2.2_percent of GDP this year 2019. The chamber, which is not suspicious of being on our rope, lowers this forecast to '1,9_per_cent, and, more recently still, the BBVA study center lowers them to '1,8. And apparently for 2019: their forecasts are for '1,9_per_cent and BBVA forecasts are for '1,6_per_cent. But, look, the BBVA also makes a calculation in relation to the fall in consumption in Catalonia during the altercations of the past weeks, and the xifra in a 2_percent of GDP, no more or less, approximately 450_million euros. Also the industrial sector – it has already been discussed during this control session – accumulates four quarters of consecutive falls, and we find ourselves at this time with a drop of 0.7_per_cent per year, and this represents 15,000 places of work. But there are other worrying news from the past few weeks as well. Tesla : tria Berlin for the new factory of electric cars and batteries for political instability and conflict in the streets; Seat : « if this continues, the group has plants in almost all Europe ; Pharmaindustry : « the environments that facilitate investments are more attractive ; Novartis : install the new subsidiary in Madrid ; Bayer : ERO to Sant Joan Despí, strengthens the factory of Alcalá de Henares. But if we look at the competition procedures, we'll see that the news isn't better. In Catalonia, there is a 39_per_cent, the year 2018, and the forecast is 45_per_cent in 2019. Counselor, no independence or barbarism: seny!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.143.0	Congressman, your time is up... thank you. To answer again, the Deputy President of the Government has the words. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.144.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. He referred to BBVA's report as referring to revisions to the growth forecast for the Catalan economy for the years 2019 and 2020. Check out this report five elements, five elements on which your perspectives are centered. In the first place, the changes in the criteria of the National Institute of Statistics on national comptability; therefore, methodological changes. Secondly, the slowing down in the creation of work places, despite the fact that they believe more work places. In the third place, changes in the composition of growth are due to the fact that domestic demand is not so dynamic; precisely because of this, we need assumptions that will enable, precisely, the internal demand of public administrations and lars to be boosted. In fourth place, he re-examined the low growth... of the eurozone. Because the Catalan economy is an open economy, it is an advanced indicator of what can be passed on to the Spanish economy, attached to the major opening outside our economy. I, finally, therefore, the lowest external demand on the industrial sector. He referred to what are estimates of the same entity on the effect of mobilizations. I am convinced that the impact will be much smaller, because we have a precedent: two years ago, the same entity said that the growth of the fourth quarter of 2017 in Catalonia, to the economy, would be zero due to the political situation of October 17, and it turns out that we ended up growing more than in the same period of the previous year. Therefore, speculating from the changes in the consumption of credit cards in fifteen days over a whole quarter, I think that, economically and methodologically, it is a little distressed. Do you know what you need, the Catalan economy? The Catalan economy needs the Mediterranean Corridor, the Catalan economy needs to end the fiscal deficit, the Catalan economy needs to repeal the labour reform of the People's Party, the Catalan economy needs to be able to decide its institutions on those economic aspects when the Government of the Spanish State, in particular the Government of the People's Party, decided to do so absolutely against the interests of our economy. This is what the Catalan economy needs. Because we have the potential, we have the capacity, we have the external opening and the diversification of the economy enough to face the challenges. And from the crisis, if there is, we will not get out with wage devaluations like the People's Party imposed...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.145.0	Vice President, your time is up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.146.0	...we'll come out innovatively and... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.147.0	Thank you. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the Supreme Court's ruling on the granting of the water sub-administration in Barcelona to Agbar, and about the management and ownership of basic public services]] [[317-00149/12]] Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. The first question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.148.0	Well, good morning, President. A few days ago the Supreme Court, in contrast to a previous decision of the TSJ, gave support to Agbar for the continuity of its management of the water service to the metropolitan area of Barcelona, putting the wheels on a possible municipal public management. A new judgement of the Spanish judiciary in favour of IBEX 35 and of multinational corporations that take advantage of the ownership or management of public services and against their public recovery. President, what do you think, your government, of this fact?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.149.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.150.0	Yeah, good morning. Mr. MP, allow 'only one second: today is Master's Day; I would like to send to the whole educational community of the country all my congratulations for their efforts, for their daily pocket for our young and young. [[Greetings.]] I agree with you, with your concern about the limitations imposed on courts in the exercise of sovereignty in any field, also in the realm of water sovereignty. They know that I consider as the first republican institution the popular will, and second, to respect this popular will. Therefore, this principle of sovereignty must always be respected in the management and ownership of public services.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.151.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.152.0	Miri, president, according to a recent question, a 58_per_cent of the Catalan population bet for a public cent_per_cent management of the services; only a 31_per_cent bet for the mixed model, and only a 23_per_cent believe that private management works better. In change, his Government's policy reiterates and confirms the line followed by previous autonomous governments, based on facilitating the privatization of resources and public services; the Aragonese law is not or will be a new example. A privatization that limits everyone's rights because it prioritizes the trade, which is at the basis of corruption, of the rotating doors, and which leaves our country without any real sovereignty on which to base independence and the republic, with its basic services and strategic resources converted into merchandise in the hands of the enterprises, precisely those that on October 4th of the 17th they change theirs following the indications of Philip VI. A privatization that we know causes a lower quality and a lower amount of public services and the precariousness of its workers and workers, with special negative effects on women. President, do you agree that the Parliament and the Government of the National Government, municipal, internal or expropriate the services and basic and strategic resources of our country, starting with water, continuing with electricity – and between electricity starting with hydroelectric power plants – telecommunications, motorways – have there been competitions to do so – gas and strategic infrastructure, and continuing, if you like, for empty habitats owned by the Sareb, the funds to return and the bank? – Of course, a bank that has stolen 73,000_million public euros that it does not intend to return, that has won even more and that has destroyed ninety_ thousand places of work and, in turn, continues to dephonate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.153.0	To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.154.0	Miri, let's turn a little back to the general concept, to the concept of sobrieties, which seems to me to be a very positive concept, and here we have a field to run. In fact, with the government of President Puigdemont I think that, if it precisely highlighted it is for all that impulse of social laws that – many of them together with the group of the CUP, and the group of the majority, Junts per el Si – were able to pull forward. But why is this concept of sobriety important to me? Because it gives power to people, puts people in the center, and it makes it all depend on people and the empowerment of people, who are the users and beneficiaries of a better welfare. See the limitations of the current legal framework, what remains for us to do? So contrast. We have to contrast, with this legal framework – indeed, yes – if we want the citizens of this country to actually have the best public services, as we all want. So, I don't think we should fail on the Republican project centered on people, they've overcome all the impediments, even the legal ones. And if we have to disobey them, we have to disobey them, effectively, to get to just this point that you propose to me. In concrete terms, on the subject of Agbar, I would also like to remind you that we, as the Generalitat, did not appear in this process, that the powers over water services are municipal, and that we, as the Generalitat, respect what you decided each time on the management, eh? As for the topic of public services, therefore, exactly the same. I think what's important is this, is to return to this key concept of sobrieties, which allows us to move forward and which allows us, above all, to contrast against a State that just wants everything against us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.155.0	Thank you. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the real measures of the Government to fight against climate change]] [[317-00150/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Ms.Jéssica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.156.0	Thank you, President, and good morning to all of you. President, it has already been said before: this week we know that we have, in 2018, struck a historical record of CO2 concentration in the atmosphere, and we have to contrast that you, in March, declared the climate emergency without resources and without concrete measures. Now it seems that they are developing the taxes of the Climate Change Law, because somehow we forced them into the negotiation of assumptions; the law of biodiversity is neither there nor expected; the law of residue, neither, and the law of energy transition went with a brutal delay. We also know that, surely, they have already announced a climate summit to the general public – because it was approved in this Parliament, too – we have talked to the entities and we are already beginning to see that it will be an electoral act more without real consequences. And that's why we want to know, presiding, if beyond photos, electoral acts or those things they do because they force this Parliament or the social pressure, at some point you want to lead the fight against climate change, which is the main historical challenge we have as a society.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.157.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.158.0	Yeah. Honestly, honourable Member, I think these words are very unfair. If anyone, if any government has placed the climate emergency at the centre of the debate, it is this government, which has declared this country in climate emergency, and just today there have been two interventions on this issue. So let me: I remind you that this government does not work to take pictures; this government rules because people – also in a climate-emergency situation – have a much better future.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.159.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.160.0	Are they? [[Pause.]] Yeah. President, many words and few facts. And in fact, what they often do is sell as a success to what they carry two years later and then a lost decade. And the reality is that you have all the energy to fight internally and you're losing focus on what's important. The other day you said to an interview – I listened to him – that everyone here is looking at him. He said exactly that. So I'm telling them to stop looking at each other and be able to look at the eyes, to look at all the people who are sick of the contamination indexes we have, all the people who lose their jobs to nuclear, to the automotive sector, to industry in general, because they're not making a conversion plan, or to all the families who suffer from poor energy because they're doing business with the common good. President, look at people's eyes. Because they could do so many things: they could do a moratorium on motorways and motorways and leave the C-32 quiet; protect the woods; promote a sustainable tourism model and put up with the Hard Rock; make an industrial conversion plan because I did not lose my job and reduce the amount of time that the weather is starting to be very worrying; or have an energy operator, president. I look at people in the eye and start doing their job with the fight against climate change as a real government priority, which I don't feel that way. And if you're not willing to do it, don't leave it, because we're talking about protecting and defending life. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.161.0	To answer the paragraph again the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.162.0	Yeah. We assure you that we are ruling by looking at the eyes, as I also trust you now, with the PSOE, so you are also ruling by looking at the eyes of the Spanish citizen, and as long as we have the opportunity that the job reform actually follows... do we get it? Yeah. It will also reverse the law, I suppose that the third additional provision of the Statute will also pay it, or that the financing that corresponds to the Generalitat de Catalunya, already almost three_ thousand_million euros, will arrive, or that the decisions of this chamber will not be appealed to the Constitutional Court. From all this, we expect from you that, looking at the eyes of all the citizens, and of the Catalan citizens, in the future work of government, therefore, that they can pull forward. On the subject that you asked me, so look, we are already working on the regulatory deployment of the Climate Change Law, and just yesterday the government passed a decree on urgent measures for climate change and the promotion and promotion of renewable energies; today the debate will also take place immediately. Through environmental taxes, too, as the Vice-President explained: with these taxes, we expect to enter up to €40_million in the first cycle of the tax, i.e. that we could double the next year and add up to €80_million, which we will allocate to two important concepts. First: climate change, mitigation policies – such as public transport promotion and adapting the effects of the climate crisis – and according to natural heritage and biodiversity: better manage protected spaces and preserve biodiversity. Also, other actions that we have already brought to completion: all the electricity that Ferrocarrils uses from the Generalitat de Catalunya, from 2019 onwards, is of renewable origin. They also know how we have been involved in the improvement plan of the quality of Barcelona's urban conurbation area; we will allocate, through the Catalan Institute of Energy, more than 58_million euros to tackle the climate emergency. That's all data, that's all actions. If you don't want to see them, it's your opinion. But this climate-emergency government... precisely, one of its priorities, and that's where we're focusing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.163.0	President, time is up. Thank you. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the convening of a new meeting of the inter-party dialogue space on the political situation, and the efforts to present new proposals and why all political forces are joining.]] [[317-00148/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.164.0	Thank you, President. Many honorable President of the Generalitat, allow'much, of entry, to succumb to the recognition he has made to the master of Catalonia, and also to the desire that soon the government signed for the agreement between PSOE and We can pull forward and we can prove if all expectations are fulfilled. But my question is on another subject. We have known through the media his willingness to summon the Dialeg Space, a new meeting of the Dialeg Space. I have to say that we are very pleased that this is the case and we want to take advantage of this monitoring session to ask if there is a concrete objective that the president wants to set up at this meeting, if there is some type of guide or documentation that allows us all to prepare it and if he intends to make, with a predictable character, an effort because the parties, the political groups that have not yet participated in this space, are doing so in this next meeting.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.165.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.166.0	Yes, thank you. Mr. Deputy, I'm glad you're here, too, so you're joining this Master's Day. It would have celebrated even more than you didn't ask the question of linguistic immersion in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] The model of the Catalan school is a model of success, one of the great consensuses of this country – one of the great consensuses of this country – as are public media, as is TV3. It seems that questioning these great consensuses that have helped us to co-ordinate with the people, it seems difficult, and wanted to comment on it. On the topic of the space of the dialog, therefore, after his intervention, concrete the themes. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.167.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.168.0	President, I would only like to ask you, moreover, if you know the document of the Department of Education made public the October of last year, which speaks of a multilingual school. [[Greetings.]] And I can only reiterate to you the question I asked you: if you ask, in view of this new meeting of the dialog space, any concrete objective; if we have a guide or documentation planned to study and work and that meeting is as profitable as possible, and if with the character of planning to make some effort because the parties that have not yet added to it can do so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.169.0	To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.170.0	Yes, of course, this is an open dialog space for all political parties. The parties that didn't want to come have self-excluded. I hope this time, then, Ciutadans or the PP can come. We have a banner that only poses "Freedom of speech and opinion; I suppose this, then, can pass..., and attend a meeting that would be interesting. Because, indeed, it will be the first meeting of the dialog space that is produced after a sentence, a sentence in which our companies are condemned to a hundred years of imprisonment, and in the framework of negotiations that have taken place between political parties. I think it's interesting that all folds, so we don't just think about being able to translate this word dialog, huh? , even the Pope... – the Pope, the other day, yesterday, it seems to me, was talking about the importance of the dialect – but we must be able to translate it. What does this dialog mean? What does it mean to talk about government to government? – what does it mean to talk about government to government? Do we recognize ourselves, Catalonia and Spain, as two legal entities, as two political subjects who freely decide, each of them, a political solution, like Britain and Scotland? This means talking about government to government. And talking about government to government means the president of the state talks to the president of Catalonia and calls him, huh? He's calling him, especially, so he can talk. It is necessary, therefore, that we know how to put it into practice and that we are going there with a will... because I need to know with what will we are going there. If the will is that we talk about the right to self-determination and you say to me, "No, let's go to desserts, so, as you can imagine, it's hard to hear this will of dialogue and negotiation. We want it real, we want it with concrete solutions that help us move forward. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.171.0	The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the fight against gender-based violence]] [[317-00152/12]] When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.172.0	Thank you, President. The question to the President, week after week, always bears the same title: "Question to the President on political topicality. So our question of today may not generate headlines, it will not be self-determination or state pacts, but, sadly, it is a question of topicality and it should fill many pages at all, although it certainly will not. November 25 is a lilac color on the calendar, the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, but with one day there is not enough. Every day it has to be November 25th, every day it has to be lila, because the violence has taken place intrinsically in our social, personal and institutional system, which, more or less subtly, we have been normalizing abnormality, and we have to be there every day to capture discrimination and inequality, and so also discrimination and gender inequality. The rise of the far right, its entry into the institutions, have given rise to consensus that they have united us all with the objective of placing themselves at the top of gender-based violence. And we, the men, can't be any accomplices to this involvement. Male rape is not a problem with women, but a conflict of the highest order of all, the whole society. We cannot allow the negationist report that wants to impose fatxes and masclists to impose itself on the subtlest and most obvious and physical violins. We must fight it actively, and its struggle, its struggle, must also be ours, it can only be ours, a collective and shared struggle. And no, we can never lower the guard, and less today, when some want them to lower their heads. And no, never again. We want them to decide their future and we know we're on the rise, because we've acquired privileges to rush into being men, but this social structure has to change. We've seen too often that domination, oppression, male violence, they have no social class, no language, no ideology, but they do have a gender, and we don't have to be aware. As I said at the beginning, every day we have to take on the commitments of November 25th, every day. And we, as a parliamentary group, will not get tired of this fight, ours, because it is necessary to raise our eyes against the retrogrades, but also because giving them is to make the world easier for our daughters, because we have to break the silences of the past many years. And today is not a question, President, today is a demand. The compromise makes us be there to trap it, and we can't give up on that either. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.173.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.174.0	Yes, thank you, Congressman. Good speeches, which I fully share. Actually, the data must reflect on us all in order to give us, truly, what you suppose, the gravity of what we are talking about. As of November 2019, there have been twelve women murdered for male violence in Catalonia: new in the area of the pair, one in the socio-community and two in the family area. It is that we must eradicate all these forms of violence against women and children, and in all areas where it is manifest; to ensure that all forms of male violence are approached in an integral way from the institutions. We have to do this together, coordinated with the administrations, but also with the social agents, in order to eradicate all masculinist rapes and, above all – above all – to repair – to repair. I want to put into value the constant and tireless struggle of feminist movements and recognize the strength, courage and courage of women who find themselves in a situation of male violence. They know that the government, since 9 July, has passed, with the second Comprehensive Intervention Programme against Masclist Violence, between a strategic plan that we already carry some years, therefore, going forward, we have implemented all of the actions that pass through six strategic axes, thirty-five operating objectives and one hundred and four actions, presupposed to which we are destined, to these activities, 32_million euros and other parties, as the acquisitions of habitats destined for women in situation..., that have suffered some type of masclist violence. It would like to be very concrete at this time that I am missing, to mention some of the projects that we are putting into effect: a new model of approach to sexual rape; a new model of intervention and work in the network of information and care services to women; a guide to help women in a situation of male violence; a new service of face-to-face attention to male violence addressed to adolescents and young people up to 30 years of age; a diagnosis of the use of male violence services by women migrated; a new service of professional advice to information and care services to women; a new service of professional counseling in the field of male violence by women migrated; a new service of professional advice to women's information and care services to women; a new service of professional counseling in the field of male violence in women with functional diversity; a new service of professional advice to women; a new service of professional counseling in the field of male violence in women with functional diversity; and a new service of professional counseling to women in the field of rape. I think this government knows perfectly well the importance of the issue, we are working, I insist, with social workers. They'll keep us at your side. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.175.0	Thank you. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the latest survey of the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinio and about his trial for disobedience]] [[317-00151/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.176.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. President Torra, from the General Directorate of Analysis and Prospective of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, there has been an unprecedented inquiry into the whole Spanish State which he wanted to ask – which he wanted to ask – and which he has asked about the democratic quality of the State in aspects and institutions such as the monarchy, something which had not happened until now in these forty years of democracy. And the main conclusion that can be drawn is that the maturity of the Spanish society, the democratic maturity of the Spanish society, is much greater, it is enormous, and with difference, than the maturity of the democratic quality of the Spanish political parties. In fact, 80 percent of the Spanish society recognizes that there is a problem with democracy. In fact, political parties are the worst valued, the Congress of Deputies and the Government too; that there is a problem with politics. In fact, the monarchy in Spain suspects, and the judicial system, too. It's more, like..., and it recognizes a majority of the Spanish society, very broad, that it is a political solution to this conflict. Recognize that this political solution goes through dialogue and negotiation. Recognize that the right of self-determination could be included in the Spanish Constitution. And he admits that a reference... could be accepted as a result. Faced with this difference between society and the politics and power stations that were going on, we also see the will of the State to continue with its disqualification, as we were able to see and keep the prosecution with judgment towards the Presidency of the Generality, towards a banner that posed "Freedom political prisoners. President, from this parliamentary group, apart from showing him the broad support before this fact of this will of incapacity, and we hope that it will not be too much to exclosure the dialect, as it confronts this judgment, as it has faced it, and as it confronts the possible feeling?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.177.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.178.0	Yes, thank you, Congressman. Today is Master's Day, but it's also one day today, this week, in which – as we are reminded –..., this week will be six months after the United Nations Arbitrary Detention Task Force demanded the Government of the State to release political prisoners, to be freed and remedied and to investigate violations of human and fundamental rights. Six months. The Spanish State has done nothing, has answered nothing. And today we see, for example, we have just heard a news that now it turns out that the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, therefore, accepts the precautionary measures that had been proposed to it and denies that we can open the embassies of Argentina, Mexico and Tunisia; today. And now perhaps, from here to a moment, if it is not that the Group of We can prevent it, then that decree will be approved... the digital decree, which supposes, not only for Catalan competitions, I insist, but for the rights that citizens have in the internet network, a very serious violation, as it had not yet passed to the State. All this is happening to us this morning – all this is happening to us this morning. And in spite of all that is happening, we say: "Yes, we want solutions. Yeah, we want a dialy. But, yes, we want a serious and content dialogue. Too many pictures, we don't want any more photos with posèties. We want a serious and content dialog. And that, I'm sorry, goes through a government-to-government dialog, where the presidents of the governments meet – and that's why Mr. Sanchez has to call me, I insist, huh? – and we take all the decisions, with complete freedom. Because it's obvious that the twenty-three independent congressional deputies were going to defend the right to self-determination in Catalonia and the power of repression and amnesty, it's obvious that we're going to put this on the table, and so we need to be able to talk about it all. But what we also need in this dialog are safeguards; "I will support it already." So, what guarantees do we have that this will actually work? Who are the interlocutors? Can we talk in this room of the right to self-determination and don't have to do the dribbles we had to do yesterday, so we can talk about the right to self-determination? This is the important experience of negotiation, that there is this spirit of trust, that we can talk about everything, freely, from political entity to political entity.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.179.0	President, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.180.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.181.0	Thank you. [[Question to the President of the Generality about his intention to dismiss the Secretary General of the Sports for alleged misappropriation]] [[317-00147/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.182.0	Mr President, are you going to cease Mr Gerard Figueras, Secretary General of Sports, for having allegedly diverted public funds to the converging environment and been arrested two weeks ago for this?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.183.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.184.0	Look, we still don't know the details of this case. I can assure you that this government, with corruption, has zero tolerance. And I can assure you that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.185.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.186.0	Look, I knew I wasn't going to stop Secretary General d'Esports, because you, in the midst of the rotting corruption, you move, you don't mind the smell. I know, on the bench that I have before me, both Mr Calvet and Mr Puignero, who is not here today, where do they come from? From the Town Hall of Sant Cugat, epicenter of 3_per_cent; town hall investigated by their irregular contracts. Mrs. Budó, on her own bench, paid for trips to Waterloo and had to return the money when it was caught. Mr. Buch, investigated for paying with public money an advisor who was escorting Mr. Puigdemont. More than a first bench of government looks like a wheel of recognition. [[Rialles.]] And if we continue..., we can also continue, look, here would sit a lady who has come out in the ears when they are chasing the corruption of a councilwoman, comes out half of you to see where they put her so that she doesn't talk and goes out Mrs. Artadi in the ears. And Mrs Madaula, who looks at me very carefully, could explain to us something about the bites of CatDem and the Palau de la Música when his friend Mr Colomines was director. [[Widow's remorse.]] And yesterday Mrs. Laura Borràs was here, who today is asking for a supplication in the Supreme, the TSJ is not the only judicial agenda today, for eighteen finger contracts for a friend of his. And speaking of friends, Mr Dalmases, for example, is being investigated for diverting money from the CATmon Foundation, received for Third World countries, and diverting it to his own benefit, allegedly, and to the convergent environment. Therefore, you are not going to cease Mr. Figueras, because you like living dangerously, Mr. Torra. When you are not going to declare the court for corruption you do so for disobedience or for breaking democracy. You are not going to answer about corruption, you are now going to talk about Citizens, which is what you always do in control sessions. But, look, those thirty-six deputies, these beasts that are mad at you, are all honored. And I do not know whether you can say the same about your Government and your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.187.0	Congressman, time's up. [[Greetings.]] Before I pass the word to the President of the Generality, I would like to say to you, Mr Carrizosa, that in this chamber we do not ask for explanations to the deputies, therefore to the women, depending on the activity of their friends or their peers, but for what they have done themselves. [[Greetings.]] Why ask me the word, Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.188.0	Yes, then, on a point of order: that you rebuke me with that macho tone, because that tone you say [[remorse of the voice]] It's sexist, because we've talked about friendships of different people here, and you talk about couples.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.189.0	Deputy, you don't have the word. He didn't tell me why he asked me for the word. [[Greetings.]] President, you have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.190.0	Yes, I sincerely believe that it is one of the days when you have fallen lower (Applause), I think that if you want to hold your defeat with these two and a half minutes of defamation and infamy, it seems to me regrettable, I find your sorry speech from the beginning to the end. But I know that you seek this chasm; so look, you will not tend it. You know what? I'll explain the country as it is, the country as it goes. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, yeah, that's right, we don't fall any more into your cricket. No, they won't take us to this land, they won't take us, never again. You want us to live in this circle of hatred, in this circle of chasm, of treachery; so no. I'll explain a few facts to you because you see the country as it is, because I see that you don't know it, so I give you a few figures. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, yeah, walk a little through this country, get to know him a little, get to know him – get to know him – and get out of his world. Exports increased by 10_per_cent in September, over the European Union and the euro area; cumulative terms... [[Widow's remorse.]] I'd appreciate it, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.191.0	Go on, President. And ask...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.192.0	A lot of people have been publicly defamed in this room today, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.193.0	Quiet, quiet everyone. President, continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.194.0	In cumulative terms, January-September, exports grow by 2.9_per_cent and exceed €55,000_million. Catalonia is maintained leader in the state with 25.6_percent of the total. The trade volume of the sector you serve in October grows an annual 3.3_per_cent in Catalonia. There's an industrial revival I celebrate and I'm glad. The volume of business in October in industrial products grows an annual 6.2_per_cent in Catalonia. During stays in hotel establishments, in October to Catalonia puja, to Spain bass. Barcelona is the third preferred city for entrepreneurs to start a business. Forty researchers from Catalan universities and centres are the world's most influential according to the Highly Cited Researchers list, which publishes each year the Web of Science Group. To the port of Barcelona, from generation to October of the 19th, the total traffic of goods grows almost a point and a half. And the airport of Barcelona, in October, has had 4_million_i_mig of passengers; more than a 2,3_per_cent than in October of the year 18. More good news... he won't give me time anymore. But, I insist, the defamation that you have done today in this Parliament will be remembered. The day will come when you... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.195.0	Time's up, President. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] Why ask me the word, Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.196.0	On a point of order, Mr President. I believe that the President of the Generalitat will never – ever – answer the questions we ask from this group and ask the President to call the President of the Generalitat to order to answer... and stick to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.197.0	Stay pointed, Mr. Carrizosa. (Whispering) Tell me, Mrs. Madaula, why ask me the word? (Founding voice) Madam Madaula, you know that in the control session there are no allusions, in any case, if you have to raise a complaint, make it to the Bureau. Thank you. (Whispering) No, no, honourable Member, you know that there are no allusions to the control session, if you have any complaints to make with respect to what happened to the control session, I have been transferred to the Bureau. Thank you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Proposal for port and transport law in maritime and continental ports]] [[202-00055/12]] Let's get to the next point of the order of the day, which is... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Quiet! Silence... Let us proceed to the debate and vote of the opinion of the Commission of Territori on the proposition of law of ports and transport in sea and continental waters. I, in accordance with Rule 123, have the word, first of all, Mr Ferran Roquer, who has been appointed by the rapporteur. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.198.0	Thank you, President. Well, let's present a port law today, a law that once we count the text we are voting on will consist of 250 articles, thirteen additional provisions, eight transit provisions, a derogation provision and three final provisions. The law is structured into four books and with corresponding titles, chapters and sections. The first book is a general arrangement, among which are definitions of expressions and words that are used in the same law. A book according to the port system: planning, planning and construction; the administrative and port organization of the Generality; the government and contractual rules; the services in the port system, and the economic and financial rules of the port system. A third book of passenger transport in sea and continental waters. And a quarter of the police and sanctioning rules. She was promoted to Junts for Catalonia and the Republic Group, and entered the register on March 21, 2019. The totality debate took place in the May 9th plenary of the same year and the ponència was named June 5. They were nominated, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Honourable Marina Bravo; for the Republican Group, Deputy Marc Sanglas; for the Socialist Group and Units for Progress, Deputy Jordi Terrades; for Catalonia in Comú Podem, Deputy David Cid; for the Candidature of Popular Unity, Deputy Natalia Sánchez, and for the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez. Mr. Antoni Bayona acted as a poster on the case, to which we appreciate his good knowledge and without which, to be sure, this law would not have come out the way it came out. And we also thank the Parliamentary Manager, Mrs. Eva Vendrell, for all her work. Six comparisons were made: that of Mr. Jorge Guillén, of the Institute of Sciences of the Sea; that of Mr. Marc Cerdà, expert in oceanography; the Catalan Association of Ports Esportius and Turistics – to which I greet –; Mr. Pere Pedrosa, Director General – who also greets the entire team of ports–, the manager of Ports de la Generalitat – which I also greet – and the companies of the Vela Federation – say companies why we are associated, eh? –; the Platform for the Quality of the Air; the Sea Sector of Workers Commissions, and the Lord Agustín Sánchez Arcilla, a professor of marine engineering laboratories of the Polytechnic University of Catalonia. There were 134 papers, of which forty-one were accepted and ninety-three were still alive at this time. The opinion was approved by the Committee of the Regions on the 20th of this month and has been dealt with as an emergency. If it were approved today – if it were approved today – it would have been a little more than eight months ago. And one thing that seems especially important to us: this law explicitly repeals the Law 5 of 1998, of the ports of Catalonia; the Law 10 of the year 2000, of the ordinance of the transport in marine and fluvial waters; the Article 22 of the Law 12/2004, of financed measures; several articles of the text refos of the Law of taxes and public prices of the Generalitat of Catalonia, and the articulated text of taxes applicable to Ports of the Generalitat approved by legislative decree, the Legislative Decree 2/2010, of 3 August. A law we believe will improve and simplify the port system of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.199.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, after the rapporteur's speech, the rest of the groups will intervene. I, in the first place, have the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the MP Marina Bravo. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.200.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillors, members who also accompany us from the department, representatives of the sector... If everything goes well, today we will pass the Catalan Law on ports and transport in maritime and continental waters. I say ‘if everything goes well, because that is what seems to be going to happen, just as the presentation has been, and also because it is what is desirable. And it is desirable that this law be passed so that we can improve the management of our ports, so that we can better deal with climate change, so that ports can open up to coastal cities in an orderly way and remove barriers, so that they are competitive with other regions that, for example, have already passed laws similar to this one and have updated their regulations. And, ultimately, it is imperative that this law be passed today to stop losing opportunities that, without proper regulation, we would be losing. The ports have always been very significant elements in our society and have been decisive in the development of our coastal peoples. They generate wealth and occupation and are essential for the fishing sector, but also for the commercial sector, for the sports sector or, of course, for the tourist sector. During the years I have been a Member of Parliament, there has been no meeting, meeting or conversation with representatives of the sector in which I have not been asked to do everything possible to ensure that this law is passed. And it is that we have more than ten ports whose concessions are very close to their completion or even one that has already been completed and that has been extended in a somewhat sluggish way perhaps. So approval is necessary, and is already urgently needed, to clarify the future of our ports and give legal certainty to their situation. And if we weren't immersed in this process in Catalonia, we'd have this law passed for a long time. That is why I find it regrettable that when it was the whole debate we had to listen over and over again to the fact that this law was not passed because of 155. Politically, it seems to me a regrettable statement and an impressive character, but it is that above it is technically almost offensive, for the reasons I will set out below, because I would like you to record and listen to the whole sector, which is certainly very interested in today's proceedings. First, this law would have to have been passed long before October 2017; it began to work in 2016, and if it was not approved it was because during the process the parties that supported that government, which are the same as we now have in the government, were committed to having a state law and not a port law, and they got stuck foolishly and ridiculously in not mentioning that neither Barcelona nor Tarragona were the subject of this law. If they had not gotten involved in that foolishness, then the paper would have been much shorter and the law would certainly have been passed before July 2017, but by that time all sanity had already been lost. Moreover, even if that month had passed and had not been approved in July 2017, another thing that is obvious and applies to everything is that 155 did not fall from the sky; there were 155 in Aragon, neither in Castile and León, nor in the Basque Country, and there could continue to pass laws in October 2017, November and December. If 155 was applied here it was because the government skipped all the laws and trampled on the rights of all Catalans; it did not care if it stayed behind neither the law of ports nor so many others. But if this is not enough and there is still someone in the sector who in good faith believes the Government and believes that it was because of 155, I will remind you that the elections were on 21 December 2017, and, soon after, we could start doing parliamentary procedures. I will read some laws that were registered in 2018: on the reduction of food waste, on the gratuitousness of textbooks, on multilingual teaching, on the accessibility and safety of parks and children's areas, on the reduction of fiscal pressure, on the abolition of the County Council of Barcelonès, on the fight against corruption, on institutional neutrality, on monumental olive trees, on therapeutic dogs, on assistance to victims of sexist violence, on the prevention of child abuse... Those are only a few. I encourage you to read the full list of laws, proposals of law that were registered in 2018. And have you ever heard of ports? They have not heard« ports because in all 2018 the Government neither remembered it, it had other things in mind – it had other things in mind – because it had to do nothing but record the text that came out of the law paper of the previous year. And it's a shame because we need a government that has its ports, its schools, its hospitals, its trains in its head, but all this, for the government that we have now, for unfortunately they are crumbs. And I hope that, even as a crumb to the government, this law can be passed today. And I hope above all that soon we can move on and start a new stage in which ports, schools, hospitals and trains are the main concern of this Government. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.201.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of MP Jordi Terrades, the Socialist Party Group and Units to advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.202.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, members of the department, of the sector, I would like to thank with my first words the work done by the rapporteur for this law, Mr Roquer, who has made it easier to reach agreements, transactions, consensus, in those points where there was still some difference, some discrepancy, with our parliamentary group. He said, I subscribe: this is a law that will improve the port system of Catalonia. This is a law that already comes from the previous legislature; let's say that the great consensus, the great accords, the best of the law, were produced in the previous legislature. The sentence was closed on July 2017; we could have approved the law if the events that followed were not produced, in which I will not enter. But there have already been major cross-cutting agreements between the various parliamentary groups. In fact, the positions, the papers that the Socialist Parliamentary Group had presented in the bill were incorporated in its majority in that debate. Some ideas or positions left alive that from our point of view were of substance, which we have replanted in the current process of the ponència in this legislature. And, anyway, I'll justify it, won't I? , which is the position, based on the Statute of Catalonia and the Constitution, on the competences of the Government of the Generality and the competences that correspond to the Government of Spain : Article 140.1 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, it is said that it corresponds to the Generality of Catalonia the exclusive competence over its ports– and other transport infrastructures, right? , but on its ports– that do not have the legal qualification of general interest. And here is the difference that we had with the draft law that at the time was subtly considered, where, from our point of view, the wording was unclear, there were or could be some clouds that overwhelm this law, about a supposed attribution of the Government of the Generality's powers over the ports of general interest, that in Catalonia we have two, that are Barcelona and Tarragona. Therefore, the considerations presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the previous legislature and also this year in this sense, to make clear in the text of the law, that it is certain that today it will be sanctioned in the plenary of the Parliament and therefore approved..., that it is clear that the competence of this law on the part of the Government of the Generality was subscribed to the ports of its competence, that they are all less Tarragona and Barcelona, at the expense of the participation of the Government in the management organs of Tarragona and Barcelona in the terms, right? , which State sectoral legislation also assigns to the Government of the Generality. In fact, the president and president of the port of Barcelona and Tarragona have been proposed for the Government of the Generality of Catalonia. Therefore, from this point of view, we have come to a compromise, on the articles where we have mentioned, satisfaction from the point of view of our parliamentary group, and, therefore, we will support this law. We have also presented some other ideas – because today it has been talked about, it will continue to talk about – about the effects of climate change, which affects our costs, and therefore also the ports, which will have to adapt to this situation by making the investments dedicated and also facing one of the problems that we have, that are these barriers that we have installed and that sometimes cause problems on our coast and above all on the beaches. It also compliments various motions which have been tabled in this Parliament respect the need to electrify ports, which is also collected in the law. And, therefore, from our point of view, I repeat, this is a law that will improve the Catalan port system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.203.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of Deputy David Cid, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.204.0	Well, from our parliamentary group, from Catalonia to Comú Pueblo, we also wanted to start in this case with a grace. I will do this especially with the Members and Members who worked on this law in the previous legislature, because, as you might say, I think it came in a lot. In my case, therefore, I want to make a special point of the deputy of Tarragona, the Hortênsia Grau, who was the one who led this negotiation and who, therefore, also worked it. And, as I said, it is a law worked in the previous legislature, also agreed with a good part of the local world, and especially also – in our case it is also relevant – in this case with the capital of Catalonia, together with the Barcelona Assembly. It is true that we in this legislature, and in the debate in the parliamentary process and in the question, presented different points, which basically had a purpose, which was also to adapt this law of ports to a new reality, which is the law, also, of the climate change, which this morning we also made reference, which was approved in this case August 2017. And we always do, and before the counselor refers, that the government acts with cross-cutting in all of urban planning and planning in this case too of all government action. It's something we don't share that we don't find missing, and sometimes we see it, for example, when there are some legislative projects in the table that don't take into account, right? For example, the legislative framework of the Climate Change Law or the same climate-emergence statement by the government, right? And, therefore, we do believe that this should mark the whole political action of the Generality in a consistent way, in a cross-cutting way, and, therefore, also, in all the legislative projects that are put on the march, and that they place at the centre, as a top priority, the struggle against climate emergency. We, too, respect the considerations presented by some groups, we have different positions. First of all, we believe that some of the... most of the papers that Ciutadans has presented have an excess of zeal, don't they? , in this definition of competence to what is now an ugly reference, therefore, I think it is clear. I mean, it's a law of ports that particularly affects, isn't it? , and which clearly affects those ports which are the competence of the Generalitat, which are all those which exist in Catalonia except for the port of Barcelona and the port of Tarragona, but we also understand that some points have a certain recent intention, it is to say, as to question competitions which are ultimately of the Generalitat, which are recollected in the same State of Catalonia and which therefore also respect, obviously, the competitive autonomic mark and even all at the constitutional level, no? There are a number of issues, also, of other groups, which I would like to highlight, and which, therefore, we also value positively, which have come up in line with the fact that this law adapts to this climate-emergency context, the fight against climate change, different groups, and that we, therefore, have also given support. And also to the considerations presented in this case by the group of the CUP, which surely, in our opinion, has also substantially improved the law and which, therefore, also endowed it with a solid major at environmental level, right? We do want to highlight two contributions which, for us, are fundamental in the text of the law and which go in this line of which I said, is that there is a real will on the part of the Government of the Generality and also on the part of the Parliament of Catalonia to fix the fight against climate change and obviously also the protection of the territory as a matter of principle. The first is the moratorium on the construction of new ports in Catalonia for a period of seven years. We think it should be longer – this is a transitory arrangement in this case –; we posted because we were two years old, but in any case, we have advocated for consensus and also to try to find it, right? , an armoury in this case of the protection of the Catalan coast. We've certainly enjoyed going there, as we say, but we think it's substantial, because it's not a minor threat. We were discussing it, too, weren't we? In this case. Probably didn't feel like building new ports in Catalonia, but, well, until recently we had the Tossa de Mar project from the table, from the Codolar, which finally the change in this case of government to Tossa has produced that this project passes to better life, by fate of all, and especially of the citizens of the Costa Brava and also of Tossa de Mar. But in any case, I think this house is relevancy. And the other, which for us is a fundamental element, which obviously can also claim to the State, with the port of Barcelona and the port of Tarragona, but I think that there is also the compromise on the part of the Generality, in what is its competence, which are its ports, it is fundamental, to fight against the climate emergency, which is to fix this horizon of the year 2024, right? , through another provision, which in this case would be an additional provision, which fixes in this case the time of 2024 because all the ports of the Generality are electrified, which I believe will be a very important measure to reduce CO2 emissions and to fight also against climate emergency. Therefore, surely we have liked to go further, we have liked to have, therefore, a law of ports still more secure, but we believe that there are some substantial elements that we value positively.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.205.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of the deputy Nàtalia Sánchez, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.206.0	Good morning to the present, that I see that they are poquets... The Law of ports and maritime transport..., we– and you know – we are and will continue to feel critical. With only one meeting of a duration of approximately one hour and a half, at which we sinned to go with the book to the hand, assuming that more than one hundred and thirty items could not be released with a single meeting of ponência and that for the obvious reason that we were four Members we could not attend, we had gone through a law – that we were also conscious and, therefore, partly understanding... – a law that had already been cooked from the house and that had been cooked from the agreements of the previous legislature. It is an example of those who so badly for the interests – especially the elites and those who always win – the last legislature did not go, and it is shown with this broad agreement, in which we in part have not been able to participate. This law, which was an opportunity to transform the Catalan port model to face up to the new challenges of the economic and climate crisis, has ended up becoming a writing disconnected from the current environmental reality and that only favors the great enterprises that control the nautical and port sector. In fact, during the Commission's appearances, coastal experts and climate change warned that the measures to fight the climate change of the joint were insufficient. The ecological entities raised the view against the subsidies of the taxes of the creuers and the non-existent proposals to reduce the atmospheric contamination of the marine transport, responsible for the premature death of fifty_ thousand people every year in Europe. And the sailing clubs, entities in the territory, put emphasis on the fragility of their activity before a port model that prioritizes the commercial and tourist exploitation of sports nautical. Even these warnings, the stance with the parliamentary groups favorable to the law – I insist, with the exception of the CUP - Constituent cry – has accelerated the parliamentary process in order to please a nautical and harbour employer that curses, I insist, from years ago for the approval of a new march more favorable to its economic interests. And this is not a novelty, and neither should we be surprised. The current photograph of the Catalan port system is that of a model privatized, directly or indirectly, sketched for cases of corruption, and that has become a key piece of the nautical tourism industry and of the cracks, linked to luxury and ostentation. But it's also a picture of an exhausted and oversized model, with one port each disset; one port each disset that needs an injection of more than 30_million euros from the Generality to keep the benefits private. And in this sense – that is the only exception we will make in the vote on the report that made the question – we will vote in favour of the seven-year transitional arrangement proposed by the Catalonian Group in Comú We can, about the moratorium..., moratorium, well, that is, that it is of empire. One port each diset_kilometres! It's a moratorium that's essential, there's no more ports! And, therefore, we will make an exception. And in this context, the result of the pressure, I insist, of the employer, the law is the full road to continue deepening in the total liberalisation of the Catalan port sector, in a strictly autonomous _marc. In fact, the law, as has already been said, refuses to regain control of the ports of Tarragona and Barcelona, at the hands of the Spanish State, and also prioritizes private management with models of commercial competitiveness. From the environmental and climate perspective, the law is extremely protective with port managers and exempts them from introducing specific measures of better environmental quality and marine ecosystems, severely affected by their economic activity. And it must be emphasized that, in a law where climate policy is practically null and void, the forty-seven items that we have done as the CUP - Crida Constituent have been and will, we understand, be rejected. Today, they will vote against such questions as the development of annual inventories of greenhouse gas emissions, necessary to establish binding targets for reduction, taxes on the emission of greenhouse gases to vessels, the promotion of small-scale proximity fishing, electric self-generation by means of renewable energy immediately, the creation of a popular sailing programme, etc. This protectionist strategy of Esquerra Republicana and Juntes for Catalonia – with the support of all groups, we assume – basically tends to respect and, therefore, protect private interests, with the complicity of the Socialist Party as well as common ones. And we regret that this desire to go any further could not be shaped. This is a clear example of how to move towards the left of Catalan politics, i.e., from votes to the left, has not been materialized by economic reforms that are not just social-democratic, and therefore, liberal policies are maintained by groups that are theoretically mostly left-wing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.207.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of the deputy Santi Rodríguez, of the Subgroup of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.208.0	Thank you, President. In order to position us in relation to the final passage of this Law of Ports, which, as has already been explained repeatedly, is not a new law, it is a law that was presented to the Government during the previous legislature, it was worked in this Parliament in question, passed the passage, obviously, of drafts and reached a final text that was sufficiently agreed between the majority of groups, also between our parliamentary group, to that text. And that text is what, when the legislature ended, was presented as proposed by the law in this new legislature and from here it worked. We were going to present him with forty-two papers, in this text, that is, some recoveries from the previous legislature that had been rejected, others that we incorporated again. But basically the exams had – functionally, huh? – two generic senses they were looking for, right? A first was to clarify what is the jurisdictional area, the scope of application of this law. Mr Cid said, "There is an excess of zeal on the part of the Ciutadans Group, and also of the Socialist Group, and also of our group, in relation to this issue. But it is no coincidence that there is this excess of zeal, because precisely the Government, when we were presented with this law last year in Parliament, said: "It is a law of state, it is a law that is intended to govern all the ports of Catalonia, including those that are not the competence of the Government of Catalonia. And this excess of zeal goes from here, from the willingness expressed by the government to introduce us to this law in Parliament. And precisely for this reason there are all these rules of expression presented in this sense. The other feeling has already been said: the climate change. We thought it was a great opportunity to include in this more indicators, more elements, more actions to be able to work against the climate change. Obviously, ports are an infrastructure that can recover in the first instance the consequences of climate change with the rise of the sea level. The forty-two papers haven't corrected my luck. Three have been incorporated directly, two have been traded; the rest, therefore, we keep them. They are not phonative, they are not, there, strictly phonative or definitions of our final feeling of vote in relation to this proposal of law, which will be overall positive. Now, yes, we ask, has already asked, to vote some articles separately to oppose us - there, and it will be articles that do not come from the proposal of the law, but that come mainly from transactions to which it has reached with the Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. And above all, I refer to one, which is the transitory arrangement for which a seven-year moratorium is established in the construction of ports. Look, we don't like this, we don't like it, and so we don't support it. We prefer to keep it regular. Because it is true – it is true – that the construction of new ports can carry risks, it is true. But they can also bring opportunities, and we are not willing to take advantage of opportunities. If you can take risks, take them, whenever there are opportunities that you can take advantage of. And, therefore, we will vote against these precepts that we believe are not necessary in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.209.0	Thank you, Congressman. The rest of the parliamentary groups will then intervene to determine their position. In the first place has the teel deputy Marc Sanglas, of the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.210.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, look, I can't help but refer to this law, which today is a great day because we can approve it, and surely, for which the various spokespersons have been demonstrating, it will be a law with a broad parliamentary support, but we cannot help but express the political anomaly in which this law has been dealt with. Mrs Bravo complained and said: "Look, there was no problem here. So yes, here's a problem, and it's called 155. And it's said 155, Madam Bravo; if you don't want to recognize it, you don't want to recognize it. Just as there is a problem when Mr. Rodriguez makes a point and says: "When this law was presented..., no, no, when this law was presented, no, Mr. Rodriguez. Do you know who introduced her? The Honourable Counselor Josep Rull. Do you know where he is now? In prison, it's a political presupposition. [[applause]] - It's a political pris. And you, in this sense of dehumanizing, "someone presented this law. No, Mr. Josep Rull introduced you to this parliamentary chamber, huh? And this gentleman is feeling political on the part of the Spanish government. And so they are. And, therefore, I cannot help but enunciate this situation of this political anomaly. We've had a hard time approving this law, and it's obvious. And Mrs. Bravo said to us: "Oh! , is that during 2018 nothing was done in this Parliament respects this law. Do you know what happened during 2018? Do you want me to remember that? Do you want me to remind you how many attempts we've had to invest a president of the generality? Do you want me to remind you that the government of the state has stopped it one time and another? And it's true, this law began to process when it was possible, and we started to process it early in 2019, and, look, the end of 2019 and we'll have an approved law. Therefore, we are talking about a political anomaly. You're making out with who... there's nothing going on here. So yes, it has, and it has been very hard. And we won't stop claiming it at every moment. Your vagina makes that here has not passed absolutely king. And, therefore, from this point of view, we want to put into value this situation, we want to put into value that this law was about to be approved by the Ple of this chamber, until the approval or application of Article 155, which did not make it possible. As at the next point in my intervention, I would like to thank the work of Mr. Roquer in the, let's say, Law processing and that, therefore, the ponència has been quick, but in any case it is also obvious that we came from a parliamentary process..., the two parliamentary groups of Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana we presented this law proposal with a text that was already endorsed from the previous legislative process, and then we introduced some elements that were the application, let's say, some concepts for the topic of the application of the Law of Contracts. So, from this point of view we've been able to move forward, we've done a quick job from the parliamentary point of view, but without stealing the debate, huh? Despite some complaints that there hasn't been enough debate, I also want to put it in value, let's just say. If the People's Party and the UPC are complaining, it certainly means that we have a good parliamentary text, because we arrive at the political center with a broad consensus. Therefore, we believe that this is a law, this text is a law that updates the old law of ports and therefore places day by day in the best management. We want to put it in value, huh? ..., and we appreciate the talk, let's say, presented for the group of commons on the subject of moratoria for what it does to the construction of portes esportius. This highlights what we already say at the time, in the presentation of the law, that it was not a law to facilitate the construction of new ports, but that, in any case, what it wanted to facilitate was the management of the current ones. And, therefore, from this point of view, a modernization of the law, which facilities, therefore, to update the situation in function, let us say, of how the sector is at these times, therefore making compatible the fishing, sport, commercial and industrial uses of these ports. And, therefore, it seemed important to us to be able to keep this law up to date. Other elements that are important to us... I insist on this – and we have already commented on this on some other occasion – that this law, together with the Law of the Coast and the Pla Director of Non-Sustainable Lands in the Area of the Coast, makes this trident norm that will allow us to improve and protect... Because this is the other element, let us say, that we introduce into this legislative text: it is the area of protection, the will to introduce the elements of climate change that are introduced into this law. And, therefore, from this point of view seems positive. Equally positive to us seems the collaboration with the assemblies. We want port facilities linked to the urban fabric of the municipalities. Therefore, it is very important to create port urban plans, which allow to introduce and allow to affect of the same joints in all the matter they occupy and, therefore, insist, insert, to have ports well connected to the urban fabric of the municipalities. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.211.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, it is the return of Congressman Ferran Roquer, of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.212.0	Thank you. Thank you, Vice President. Well, you see, I wanted to start my intervention by saying that this is a law that evolves a bill that Councilman Rull had introduced, and it was said here, in the eleventh legislature. Madam Bravo, this bill was to be voted in this House on September 20th; it was not voted on September 20th 2017 because it was annulled that House, and on October 27th it was decreed Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution which suspended this House and called for elections. Therefore, it was not possible to vote; it was not possible to vote because it applied Article 155 of the Constitution. And we took a long time – and we took a long time – to bring you here, Mrs. Bravo. We were late because between the adoption of the opinion of that law and the presentation of this rule, the Law 16/2017, the climate change, which has been incorporated into the norm, or the Law 9/2017, of public sector contracts, which has also been incorporated into the draft law that we have submitted. So it's not that we haven't been doing anything. And here we present a bill of law especially interesting in a country that has 780 kilometers of coast and forty-nine ports. These two circumstances force us to have the pleasure of sea and navigation as an object to be placed at the bottom of everyone. It's a law that allows us to make the most of current ports, and that's why we say it, that's why we accepted a moratorium, that's why we put a seven-year moratorium on the law. In fact, the Department of Lands and Sustainability did not have any provision or request to make any port. Therefore, this moratorium is a redundancy of the intention of the department. It is a law that allows the port system of the Government of Catalonia, of self-sufficiency, to be endowed with self-sufficiency. It is to say, both in the reversal and in the running of the money that applies to it will not generate any cost of opportunity to other policies of the Generality. I mean, to do ports, they won't stop making choices, they won't stop making hospitals, they won't stop making any other reversals. And, in fact, whenever the Generality has the ability to apply some kind of tax, investments in infrastructure and the improvement of infrastructure are guaranteed. I think of the ACA's canons in the improvement of sanitation or in the tax on stays in touristic establishments that allows to make plans of encouragement for the improvement of the touristic sector. It gives legal certainty; it gives legal certainty to the concessions that exist today and to the concessions on port infrastructure services that already exist. In this sense, this rule is adapted, and I said before, to the Law 9 of 2017, contracts of the public sector. And in this sense, we are presenting a technical question, which we are voting on, of Article 68.2.a, which we had laid down '50 years where we should have laid '40 years as much as the terms of the concession. It is adapted to the Llei 16/2017, of the climate change, to make front to the climate emergency that sees Catalonia. It regulates aspects such as dredging, snorkeling, drinking, waste treatment, prevention of atmospheric and acoustic contamination, and the content of marine fuel, for example. Sets the figure of the harbour urban master plan, in which the joints intervene and favors the integration of the ports and the city and the rest of the mobility infrastructures that affect the ports. Sets a classification of ports according to the quality of their facilities and the quality of the services provided at these ports. The 66_per_cent of the 32,988 moorers in Catalonia are for vessels of less than eight meters. The additional sisena provision of this standard establishes that anchors for these types of vessels must be encouraged and kept and progressively incorporated into them by vessels with low emission levels. All the ports of the Generalitat..., established the Pla de ports of the Generalitat horitzo 2030 that before 2023 would electrify all the ports of Catalonia. We wanted to stay on the norm, we wanted to stay on the law, to force Ports of the Generality, to force the Generality, to force the Government to electrify them; to put it black on white with a rule of compulsory compliment. Finally, I would like to thank the willingness and good will of all the speakers, especially Mr Terrades and Mr David Cid, with whom it has been easy to agree, and Mr Marc Sanglas, who has been my companion and who has been a guide in the first law of which I have been putting. Many thanks, many thanks to everyone, because it makes sense as a result of the approval of this law the living conditions of the citizens of Catalonia will improve. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.213.0	Thank you, Congressman. Yes, Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.214.0	For allusions by Mr. Sanglas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.215.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.216.0	Thank you. Mr. Bloods, look, of everything you said coincided with you only in one thing: effectively, this law was not able to approve the previous legislature for a political anomaly. The political anomaly is that a government is trying to give a shot at the state. This is the political anomaly that led to the application of the Constitution. And the second question. I already told you yesterday that you have a lot of imagination. So it continues to show this imagination: there are no political prisoners; there is a whole government condemned for sedition and misappropriation. [[Marc Sanglas and the sewers ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.217.0	Yes, Mr. Bloods? [[Pause.]] Thirty seconds, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.218.0	Thank you, President. In any case, yes, there are political prisoners. And there are political prisoners, who are yours, who are locked up for corruption. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.219.0	After the debate with the interventions of the parliamentary groups, the councillor asked for a small intervention to make some thanks. So, counselor, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.220.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, obviously, give the first thanks to the rapporteur of this law, Mr. Roquer; also to Mr. Marc Sanglas, who himself Mr. Roquer has expressed that he has actually been a companion and rapporteur in which the processing of this law has been carried out. And also thank the interventions and contributions to the work that brings us to this vote by Mrs. Bravo, Mr. Terrades, Mr. Cid, Ms. Sánchez, Mr. Rodriguez. After all that has been said on the part of all the parliamentary groups, it is very difficult to add anything new to what processing means, the final vote for approval of this law. Despite this, indeed, I would like to thank the Bureau for making it easier for the Government – not so much for me as for advising – to intervene briefly to underline that this is a very important moment, very important for the Department of Territories and Sustainability, but I would like to say that it is for the whole Government and for the whole country, because this is a law that effectively modernises the legal framework governing nautical activity in our country, the Law of Ports, and that is why today too, therefore, we are accompanied by representatives of the port sector, both the Catalan Federation of Ports and the Catalan Federation of Sailing. I can't stop referring and I can't stop thinking about the legitimate advisor of Territories and Sustainability, friend Josep Rull. Indeed, it was said and repeated: with it began this process, and it was a very much process in the line of what the former government was doing. President, I'll be very brief, huh? With my intervention. But, in any case, the government it did was to manage the day-to-day, for example, so, managing the concessions, that although it did not have a law that it took it to resolve's, or also to think about the investment plan of Ports of the Generality, that we finally also could approve with the current government. But he didn't just manage correctly and rigorously every day, but he also thought about the country's modernization agenda, among other things, the law of ports that we approve today. But, indeed, it was a government that never gave up anything. He won't give up being able to have the best country possible. And that meant, for example, celebrating the U of October, asking directly to the people of Catalonia if they wanted to be a better country. Because of that way of doing, because of that way of being, he cannot be here today, and I must confess that we find him lacking much. It's a mature, working law, it's said; it's a law that, therefore, incorporates all the concepts of climate change; it's a law that incorporates some very important concepts. The moratorium of seven years stood out. I would especially like to thank the various speakers and the parts, therefore, that have worked on this law that between one proposal and another we finally arrive at this temporality, this moratorium of seven years to build new ports. I believe that this does not leave us with any opportunity, on the contrary, it prepares us better to face opportunities for the future. And also highlight the administrative simplification and the improvement of efficiency in everything that makes reference to port management. We're also focusing on the public enterprise Ports de la Generalitat. This will make this company still become more central and more nuclear in this management of ports, and ultimately of the coast. The promotion of quality and competitiveness, the promotion of economic activity, the promotion – it has also stood out – of the popular and sporting nautical one – is very important–, the connection of the ports with the concept of the Mediterranean Corridor – again also here, therefore, opportunities and development of the country –, the diversification of the port activity, that there is no presuppositionary expense – is very important that it is understood that everything that this law entails of management, also of recuperation, will be reinvested in the same sector, this concept of taxation or of final taxation that must make us well with the country –, and to think, in the end, that the port system needs a structure of global governance. Therefore, a collegiate, multi-disciplinary action that has brought us to a good law, which I hope will continue to be approved. Allow me, President, to make one last reference, or one last approach, more personal – to explain the law, too –. I know the son of Vilanova and the Geltrú, I come from a family of fishers, and I have seen and lived like the sailors, when they went to the boat or when they went to their boats, often raise their heads, beyond what you see in plain sight, to guess whether it will be good weather or the sea, so it will stop, huh? So, look at the clock, look at the cell, look at any sign that indicates that this can change, that the sea is complicated. If you allow me to make an analogy between this look at the sky to see if the sea, therefore, will be conducive to sailing and the tools we need to be able to govern our ports, I would say that today we raise our gaze and have a legislative environment that will allow us the nautical sector to give opportunities to our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.221.0	Thank you, Counselor. We shall now proceed to the vote. We called for a vote. We shall vote in the first place on all the reserved items of the different parliamentary groups, and finally vote on the joint opinion. We shall vote in the first place on the reserved items of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, which correspond to items 11, 37, 38, 77, 81, 84 and 106. Let's get to the vote on these items. The vote begins. The opinions of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group were rejected by 40 votes to 76, with 17 abstentions. Let's now vote on the reserved Emena of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, which corresponds to Emena 104. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 57 votes in favour, 76 against and no abstentions. And we are voting now on the reserved item of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem; it corresponds to item number 78. The vote begins. This was rejected by 7 votes in favour, 67 against and 57 abstentions. We now vote on the reserved items of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Cry Constituent. In the first place, and in response to the separate request for a vote made by the parliamentary groups, we will vote – in the first place – on the reserved items corresponding to numbers 16, 40, 41 and 90. The vote begins. These items have been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 117 against and 4 abstentions. We now vote on the second cluster of issues of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Cry, corresponding to numbers 91, 103 and 115. The vote begins. These items have been rejected by 16 votes in favour, 117 against and no abstentions. And we are voting now, finally, the last block of papers presented for the CUP Subgroup - Constituent Cry. The vote begins. These items have been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 121 against and no abstentions. We are voting now, and also according to the separate voting petitions, a first block of the reserved items of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the items ranging from number 3 to 109. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 40 votes to 68, with 25 abstentions. And now we vote a _second block of reserved items of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, which go from number 30 to 134. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 4 votes to 76, with 53 abstentions. We now vote on a third block of reserved items of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, which correspond to items 49, 50, 51 and 52. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 4 votes to 112, with 17 abstentions. We now vote on two technical issues that were presented yesterday. First of all, we shall vote on the technical question concerning the amendment of Article 68.2 letter to. The vote begins. This technical question was approved by 129 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And now we vote on the second technical theme, which corresponds to the addition of a new transitional arrangement. The vote begins. This technical question was approved by 124 votes to one, with eight abstentions. We shall now proceed to vote on the text of the opinion and, in the first place, we shall also respond to the requests for separate votes, we shall vote on the articles corresponding to 123a, 137b, 149c, 156c and 163a, in a joint vote of all these articles. The vote begins. These articles were approved by 89 votes to four, with 40 abstentions. We are voting now on the seven-year transitional arrangement. The vote begins. The seven-year transitional provision was adopted by 93 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. We now vote on the rest of the opinion. The vote begins. The proposal for the law of ports and transport in sea and continental waters has been approved by 129 votes in favour, 4 against and no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Draft law amending Law 16/2017, August 1, climate change, for taxing carbon dioxide emissions from mechanical traction vehicles (totality debate)]] [[200-00009/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which corresponds to the dotze, which is the totality debate on the Bill of Amendment Bill 16/2017, August 1, climate change, for which it does the tax on carbon dioxide emissions from mechanical traction vehicles. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative is presented by the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.222.0	Good morning, Mr. President. Counselors, councillors, ladies and gentlemen, I appear on behalf of the Government to present this Bill amending Law 16/2017, the climate change, in concrete terms in the section of the law referring to the tax on carbon dioxide emissions from mechanical traction vehicles. And this is a bill that, to a good extent, its presentation, that... so, obviously, it's its content of very technical aspects, aspects of development of this tax. Probably, if we had the elements of sovereignty that this chamber has repeatedly claimed, if we were a state, in a similar process of this law, we would not have found ourselves with all the peril we have experienced. This law approved the year 2017; in fact, it was approved, therefore, in July 2017 and, in fact, it was approved, the Climate Change Law, in these two years and a half, with the favorable vote of all parties of the chamber, except the People's Party, which abstained. A law that is justified, that is justified by the unquestionable global scalf caused by human activity, essentially by emissions of gases of winter effect, caused by the use of fossil fuels and the change in the uses of soil. In fact, the World Meteorological Organization has warned – and today, the government's control session has been mentioned – that the year 2018 has broken a new historical record of winter-effect gases. So, this law approved for the unanimous practice of this Parliament, with the exception of the deputies of the People's Party, which I remember they abstained, was appealed before the Constitutional Court for the President of the Spanish Government, Mariano Rajoy; appeals which, in fact, were not withdrawn on the part of the new President who was there-after, Pedro Sánchez. All in all, we had to wait until June 20th, 20th, 2019, for the Constitutional Court to publish its judgment on respect, which validated the tax. I'll be back two years later. Therefore, in the concrete part of the tax regulated by the Law on Climate Change, therefore, we are two years late, precisely, because of the Spanish Government's challenge before the Constitutional Court. An objection which has a suspensive character and which shows the inequality between the different levels of government in this «most decentralized state in the world, which, when we challenge some rules before the Constitutional Court, this follows its course; when the president of the Spanish Government does not challenge it, it has automatic effects on its suspension. Therefore, today we present this law aware that our country has to work to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. Conscious and manifest that we have gone forward, but that we may continue to advance further, not only through this law – and, therefore, now, of the modifications we propose in the part that regulates the tax on emissions, which I will explain later – but in many other areas. For example, in the Generality's own assumptions, which we have just drawn up, we are precisely starting from the commitments that the international community has agreed around the 2030 Agenda for sustainable development. The objectives for sustainable development are a key guide for transforming Catalonia, helping to transform the world and, obviously, therefore, in these objectives, there are also those of environmental sustainability. Therefore, before a climate crisis we need to act. In this sense, yesterday, the Government launched a law decree – today, therefore, it has also taken into account in the control session of the Government – and, therefore, it is absolutely necessary to establish mechanisms that allow access to financing sources for politicians around the fight against climate change, around the reduction of emissions of gases with winter effects. There are different studies that point out that, precisely, a tax on emissions is an effective method of reducing emissions, as there are experiences in countries around us, in the European environment. The collection of these taxes, because they are really useful, is to be used, among others, for the development of renewable energies and other sustainable projects. And in this sense, that's why it's foreseen... that the Climate Change Law is foreseen, in this legislation, precisely, therefore, this tax. And, in this sense, this tax, which was developed in this law by the Parliament of Catalonia, first of all, which was the validation by the Constitutional Court, secondly, the need to make certain technical adjustments provoke the presentation of this preliminary draft law. A preliminary draft of the law that has a single article, which counts twelve apart. In the first paragraph, what is done is to make a technical modification that adapts the nominal references of the vehicles, which will be the object of this tax, the emissions of these vehicles, to the community regulations. This reference to Community legislation is also transferred to the article regulating the tax quota and therefore, with the same purpose, to the exception which determines the exemptions to the payment of that quota. Secondly, the apartment follows the connection point from which the tax is paid in relation to legal persons, businesses, in order to guarantee a subjection of the tax. For another band, a new article is introduced that sets concretely – therefore, it is an appreciation of technical character, but phonental in order to be able to finish capturing the tax – which is the taxable basis, fixed in the volume of emissions in grams of carbon dioxide per kilometre, which is detailed in the certificate, which we know as the "technical file of vehicles, issued for manufacturers or importers of vehicles and, in the case of vehicles of a certain antiquity, the method to calculate them is established. Therefore, these data have been obtained from the statistical exploitation of the information of the available databases of the fleet of vehicles of Catalonia. Also, in view of the delay due to the appeal before the Constitutional Court, the date of merit is changed, i.e. the date on which the subjection to the tax by the person or legal person who has to pay it becomes mandatory, so this date of merit becomes 31 December of each year. And it also regulates the deployment of the procedure for the payment of the tax, which is regulated in sections 8, 9 and 10 of the single article of this bill. It's moving the standard system, that's to say, there's the list of vehicles with their owners and, therefore, from here, it's known who the passive subjects of this tax are. It is worth saying that we have needed months and months because, to this standard, which was in the hands of the General Directorate of Transit of the Government of the State, we may have access to it, in exercise of a competence validated for the Constitutional Court; therefore, "the most decentralized state in the world, in this sense, could also be put into question. So, it's mitching the pattern system. There will be an exhibition of this provisional pattern from May 1 to May 15 of each year after the year of merit. And there is also a bonus for taxpayers who house the payment of the tax to make it easier to recap. It is also determined, as a result of this delay, that the tax for the 2018 financial year will not be payable, and in relation to the 2019 financial year, that, according to this bill, it will be worth 31 December of enguany, it is only payable for the categories of M1 and N1 vehicles, and, therefore, for motorcycles, the tax will be payable as from 31 December 2020. Technical changes which, as I said, take account of precisely what has been, therefore, this challenge before the Constitutional Court, which demonstrates the difficulty of bringing innovative, courageous, decisive policies to term, in the fight against climate change in a situation of a country that does not have full sovereignty and with a state that makes conferences on climate but still does not make political pros before the climate crisis, a fight against the climate crisis that cannot wait. And, therefore, we also ask that parliamentary processing – we did it in its time – so it is done with the urgency system so as to reduce the terms and be able to apply this tax to as soon as possible; an urgency, a reduction in terms that is not to the detriment of parliamentary guarantees that all Members must have. As you can see from the documentation we have provided accompanying this bill, the government has completed a hearing process with interested and affected sectors. And, therefore, the content of the law is technical, it is not very extensive; therefore, it is surgical changes, we can say, aimed at ensuring the applicability of the tax as soon as possible. Therefore, we ask you to facilitate as much as possible the various procedures to ensure that the law is approved, if so you think it is appropriate, as soon as possible; the most desirable would be that it was approved before the end of this year. I would not like to finish my intervention without remembering a few words that Councillor Josep Rull used to close the intervention when he presented the Climate Change Law in this exercise; a Councillor Rull who today, as the Councillor who preceded me earlier, Damià Calvet, reminded me, is unjustly locked in prison. Counselor Josep Rull said: "Our obligation is not only not to mortgage the future of our children, but our obligation is to return this expanded loan with crease. Today, approving this law, this small country of southern Europe is looking at the Mirall and saying that it wants to be a decent country, a worthy country. That's what it's about. This Climate Change Law was approved, which has encountered political difficulties for the opposition of the State to its development; we must overcome them, we must overcome them. We have overcome what has been this first challenge before the Constitutional Court. Now what it is about is to make the technical adaptations so that this tax is, therefore, applied as quickly as possible. I need it because of the foundations that go into the presuppositional sphere, I need it because the Generality's own assumptions also include these presuppositional endowments for the foundation against the climate change, for the foundation for the natural heritage, which are essential to be able to have instruments to fight the climate crisis, which is an urgent need, this struggle, and therefore it is an urgent need to have the instruments to be able to carry it out. Many thanks, President, Councillor, Councillors, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.223.0	Thank you, Vice President. Next, and in order to defend the totality raised by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.224.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisor, vice-president, we have presented a report to the totality of this Tax Bill on carbon dioxide emissions. I don't suppose you're new. In fact, you have already explained that we were going to abstain in the Climate Change Law, and one of the reasons for for forbearance to the Climate Change Law was precisely that it contemplated this tax. And the message to the totality that we present today has two meanings, two: one meaning is that it is also a message to the totality to the government's fiscal policy, and the other is the message to the totality specifically to the bill of this tax. And you mentioned the vicissitudes that this tax passed; you neglected one part: this tax was first introduced into the Law accompanying the assumptions of 2017, March – March – and it is not until July that it is incorporated..., it is the first important modification of this tax and it is incorporated into the Climate Change Law. Do you want to know why he put up with it? Do you want to know why he ran? Do you want to know why he was suspended? The answer is to his skein. Yes; the secretary of Hysenda, Mr. Lluís Salvado, knows what he thought of this tax? "I hope that the Constitution will suspend it, because, if not, we'll get a ridiculous scarecrow. His wishes were fulfilled: he appealed to the Constitutional and the Constitutional suspended him. And today they're bringing you here a new modification... fixi's, this tax isn't born yet and the third full modification of the entire tax is already suffering. It is said: "These are small, technical modifications. Yes, perhaps yes; man, of the articles in change twelve. « Small, « technical: they only retain two lines – two lines – of the original text that came to the Climate Change Law. So, man, so small so small are not, modifications. Why are we opposing this tax? The automotive sector is an important sector, 10_percent of Catalan GDP, 50_ thousand direct workers, 100_ thousand indirect workers. Transformation process that worries a lot. I will not talk about other vicissitudes that we have already had the opportunity to talk about this morning, but it is a process of transformation of the sector that is of great concern. And so we present it for the incidence that a law of these characteristics can have on the automotive sector. First. Difficulties, genuine difficulties, for the connection between the passing subject and the vehicles circulating in Catalonia, because, if it is a matter of paying for the vehicles that contaminate, the vehicles that contaminate are not those that are owned by the persons domiciled in Catalonia, but they are those that circulate in Catalonia, which is not well the same – it is not well the same. And, therefore, here they will pay those who have cars in Catalonia. What will this provoke? Empowering the fiscal competitiveness of Catalonia. I lose it, as always. What can they cause? For example, displacements of fleets of vehicles, right? If I have to pay a tax in Catalonia and I don't have to pay it in other places, then I go to other places where I don't have to pay that tax. But they also have difficulties in determining the CO2 emissions of each vehicle. In those in the technical file it will not be a problem, but in those in which it is not. And, concretely, all motorcycles prior to 2017 do not have emission data, and, therefore, you will have to make a theoretical calculation, which is what you include in this law. And it doesn't refer to actual contamination, but to theoretical contamination. It's an inverse progressive tax – inverse. This means vehicles that contaminate the most, obviously, are the oldest, they are the ones that will pay the most, they are also the ones that are used to being owners that have lower and, therefore, more difficult to change the vehicle for others that contaminate the least. We are no longer talking about electric vehicles, which are much more cars. Therefore, it is an imposition that from the point of view of progressivity is inverse: who less possibilities have is who else will end up paying. And it's a tax that discriminates more in rural areas. And they know that perfectly well because the Agricultural Institute of Sant Isidre has told them repeatedly. This tax harms people in rural areas who do not have public transport alternatives, who need to use their private vehicle. In Barcelona, in the metropolitan area, in the metropolitan region of Barcelona, there are public transport alternatives, and one can say: "Well, I don't have a car, I use public transport. In rural areas, no. And, therefore, this tax is very direct to rural areas. After we complain about the depopulation of rural areas, that we have to have rural areas present, but when they legislate, that it is time to have them present, they do not forget and ignore it completely. But it's also a challenge to the totality of the government's fiscal policy. Catalonia we are leaders, we like to be leaders, that's fine, isn't it? ; now, tax leaders no longer like us so much. Own taxes: fifteen. The second largest community in Spain: Andalusia, 8th. IRPF: Catalans pay more than all of Spain for taxpayers up to EUR 30 thousand. Heritage: the third. Heritage transmissions and documented legal acts: the most. Now, as you are negotiating the assumptions, the income can certainly improve: they want to push the IRPF to higher returns, that is to say, they don't only follow yields of less than thirty-thousand that pay more, but they also want to push those of more than thirty-thousand that pay more; they want to push back the inheritance tax, which was at an intermediate level, I suppose they need to want to be leaders; they want to push the tourist tax. That's why we introduced a tax revolution: various legislative proposals to change the government's fiscal policy. And one of those proposals that we've put forward and that are about to see in the House is precisely the removal of the carbon dioxide emissions tax. We are convinced that there are alternatives; we are convinced that environmental taxation is possible, but it is done in a more sensible, fairer and more effective way for the environment, which is ultimately what they try to look for with this law, but that they do not get it well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.225.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and to fix the position of each of the parliamentary groups, they will intervene. In the first place, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, intervened the Lord Antonio Espinosa. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.226.0	Thank you, President. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. It is clear that we are facing a climate emergency, and this is what the World Meteorological Organization told us just a few days ago, warning us precisely of the concentration of dioxide we have in the atmosphere, which is constantly growing and which is currently in quotas that have not been known for three million years. Urgent measures aimed at the decarbonisation of our planet are therefore necessary. And, therefore, in relation to this law that brings us, the first question we must ask ourselves is whether the bill that sets in motion the carbon dioxide tax on mechanical traction vehicles goes in this direction. Citizens' response is no; this tax is not an effective or adequate measure to combat climate change. And I'm going to give you a few reasons. The first is that it does not respond to the ecological and environmental maximum that the polluter pays. With this tax you will not pay more who uses the car and, therefore, more contaminate; you will pay the same person who runs a thousand kilometers after one year than the one who runs 35,000. And I think it's common sense to think that whoever makes 35,000 kilometers a year will be polluting much more. Another reason why we are opposed is that environmental taxes have as one of their main objectives to correct habits and behaviours that harm the environment. Well, what incentives does the owner of a vehicle have to stop using it if he uses it as much as he does not use it, as if he uses nothing, will pay exactly the same? Frankly, I say this to you: absolutely no incentive will have that owner. At present there is no real alternative to public transport, there is no alternative, but if there is, why will public transport be used by the taxpayer who knows that he will pay the same tax if he uses his car as if he does not use it? Again the answer is that there is not going to be that change. But there is also another point to make: neither do citizens today have a real alternative to replace their polluting vehicle with one, for example, electric. If there were electric cars with an environment price of fifteen_ thousand_euros, I am convinced that citizens would buy them, even massively. But there is no such alternative. So, what are they? They are obliged to have a polluting car, and now, thanks to the Government and its supporters, to pay more for it. I want to insist on this: this tax is not intended to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, but to collect more, and this is beyond doubt, because citizens will not pay for what they pollute, but for having a car. This is the reality, and the vast majority cannot buy a zero-emission car. Therefore, in the end it is to collect. And this brings me to another consideration, which has already been exposed, to some extent, by the Member Santi Rodríguez: this law does not comply with the principles of progressiveness and equity, because it is true that the holders of the most polluting and, therefore, oldest cars are those who have the lowest incomes, and these are the ones who will pay more and at the same time are the ones who will have the most difficulties to change and replace their current car. Therefore, we understand that, progressively, none. The government hopes to raise, apparently, 150_million for this tax. Do you know what I think the government should do with them? Return them to people, yes, return them in the form of a bonus for the purchase of clean vehicles and the improvement of public transport. That should be the sole and strict purpose. But the drawbacks presented are not the only ones of the tax. Look, the non-subjection to the vehicle tax of more than 3.5 tonnes, i.e. the medium and heavy, how is it explained? Do they pollute less? Is it that they do not pollute more precisely than family vehicles? Well, they're not paying for anything. Those medium and heavy vehicles are not going to pay this tax. That's funny, isn't it? Another drawback is that, on the other hand, it is impossible to subject to the tax of foreigners and the rest of the Spaniards. Of course, those who are in transit through Spain will not have to pay the tax, and yet they will pollute. I'm done – I'm done – Mr. President. I ended up with a petition. Mr. Vice President, please..., Catalonia is the autonomous community with more own taxes, please make useful taxes, make useful ones and stop putting your hand in the pocket of Catalans. Nothing more. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.227.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Terrades has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.228.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, Counsellor, Councillors, Members, Members, has already repeated itself this morning: this week we have had two warnings. The Working Group of the United Nations Environment Department, which has produced a report on emissions of winter-effect gases, and also the World Meteorological Organization, which warns of a geometric increase in carbon dioxide emissions, also in Catalonia. And, therefore, I believe that we are obliged, we are asked, to take steps to try to solve this problem that we have, that it is a planetary problem, that the week that is also going to start talking at the COP25 summit that will be held in Madrid. Here we make speeches that we have a problem, but, uh, when the time comes up to take action, everyone, or some, try to get out of it by the rucksack. We haven't presented the whole thing. We'll give support to processing. We also told the vice president that we would present a statement during the debate on this law. Because... that's what we agree with the argument made by the Ciutadans Group, which has not just entered the background of the issue. I mean, you're the one who's supposed to have a vehicle, whether it's a motorcycle or a car, you pay, huh? If the law is approved, you'll pay. And, therefore, it does not have this environmental aim of correcting carbon dioxide emissions from transport, which certainly represent 36 % of emissions in Catalonia, as does the industrial sector. And, therefore, the logical thing would be – and this was a debate that we had with Councillor Rull and also with Councillor Calvet when we talk about the winery – he will agree with me, Mr Aragones, that it will contaminate more or that it will emit more the vehicle that at the length of the year can make fifteen, twenty, twenty-five miles, than the one that only makes a thousand. So, this is an anomaly that I think we'll have to solve. You are complaining of the Constitutional Court or that the Government of Mariano Rajoy brought this law, the Catalan law, to the Constitutional, and that this has delayed the imposition and regulation of this tax. Now, speaking of delays, there was a final provision, the first, in the Climate Change Law, which suggested my parliamentary group at the time of its processing, which was the Winter Effect Gas Law, which was a umbrella for all CO2 emissions in Catalonia, which the Government, which you were to present in this Parliament, and which was to enter into force in 2019. And you know what, Mr. Aragones? This was an additional provision that the Government of Spain did not resort to, that was absolutely in force and that you could also draw up a bill. You're talking about delays, you're taking over your government, too. And, back to that... there will be more affected businesses, if we apply this tax. And I'm referring to one of the sectors that at this time, probably because they have older vehicles that emit many emissions..., and that probably need that, through the climate fund – it's true that that doesn't regulate it, huh? , and which will be regulated to the accompanying law –, subsidies from the government to do what we also claim some, which is to make a fair transition. There will be sectors that will be more affected than others and we will have to age because this just transition is possible. You could also look at the law approved by the Parliament of Canada, which respects CO2 emissions and affects transport, that what you're looking for is a neutral, zero effect, is to say, that when the citizens pay, they end up returning to the same cities through policies of mitigation and adaptation to climate change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.229.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.230.0	Well, today I would say, in this Parliament, the first step towards putting the carbon dioxide emissions tax on mechanical traction vehicles, which, as explained, collected the idea of climate change, and which was endorsed by the Constitutional Court. I think it's good to remember, too. And it makes me sense that whenever we have these debates, they also stop, as well, the intervention of Mr. Rodriguez and some other interventions that have preceded me..., that when it comes to climate change, it is true that we have moved forward – or so on, now the climate change is no longer denied, it is no longer said that we are not before a climate emergency situation – but when we start to take action against climate change, problems begin. I think we need to be aware that we are not at a time of symbolic declarations, that we are not at a time of posture, but that we are able to reduce the emissions that cause the climate change an 8_per_cent before 2030 or we will have a temperature increase around two degrees or a degree and a half, in this case, the year 2030, if we can reduce them. And, therefore, we are ahead of a situation of very clear climate emergence and that, in any case, I am surprised that, beyond speeches on climate change, we do not want to take real measures to reduce emissions and, ultimately, to fight against climate emergence. We believe – and it is, of course, our position – that we are also here, putting this tax on the market, the fruit of our insistence. That is to say, it is obvious that the Climate Change Law collects this tax year 2017, but that we are late, that we have practically trigated two years. Obviously we can say that there have been technical difficulties, but I also believe that there has been a lack, I would say, of obvious will on the part of the Government to deploy the Climate Change Law. And, obviously, also to place the tax share – which I will also refer to later on – as a fundamental element in obtaining resources; because it is what we are talking about: to obtain resources to finance public transport; to fight, in this case, against climate change; and also, for example, to develop renewable energies. That is to say, that they have a sense and must obviously tend to have a social return – and now I will also mention it. But in fiscal policy, and I also think we need to be aware, we are also involved in the negotiation of assumptions, these days, we don't even know how we will end up with the negotiation of assumptions..., but I do want to say that the result of the work of En Comú We can value the fact that there are two fiscal changes in this past year that are taking place. The first was referred to earlier, that we..., obviously it was our proposal and, therefore, we defended it, which is the modification of documented legal acts, which now pay the banks, which supposes 80_million euros more, in this case, for the Generality. And, second of all, this charge we're charging today on CO2 emissions from mechanical traction vehicles. And, of course, when it comes to reverse progression, you always find an element that has to do with the antiquity of the cars, but they never speak of a given that is fundamental to me, that is that 50_percent of the population, that obviously suffers from CO2 emissions and the consequences of CO2 emissions, not only at the level of global warming, but also of salvation, has no car, or has no driver's license. Therefore, when we talk about the progress of this tax, we also take into account that 50 percent of the population does not have access to the private vehicle, that is, because they do not have the resources to pay it or because they do not have a driving license in this case, so as not to talk, obviously, about the thousands and thousands of children who suffer from contamination in Catalonia. And it is clear that the resources that they generate, these 155_million euros that they aim to collect the Generality, must serve, according to the Law of Climate Change, for two elements – and there is a reference earlier – it is to say: to nurture the climate; we believe that this must aim as a priority to give alternatives to the use of private transport and, obviously, to finance public transport, this is the fundamental policy that should guide, in this case, the infrastructure of the Generality, the public transport stake. And, secondly, also the natural heritage foundation, above all the elements of mitigation and biodiversity preservation in this climate-emergency context, right? We have two more taxes that were included in the Climate Change Act that we obviously also continue to claim as a priority. In the first place, the one that records the polluting economic activities, that is, those companies that emit more CO2 to Catalonia. And, second of all, also the harbour programs – we have not spoken before too – that is also an element, in this case, phonental, for which it refers especially to Barcelona and also to Tarragona. But I insist on it before, I also believe that it is a coherent policy on the part of the Generality. That is to say, I also believe that he felt that he was putting these taxes on the market, but what it cannot be is that we have an infrastructure policy that is not consistent with this policy, in this case, tax. In this sense I also call for infrastructure policy to be guided, in this case, by the Climate Change Act. Actually, they've had a problem with this. And, therefore, let us put the priority on enlargements and prolongations of high-capacity lives, especially of highways and motorways, back if we want to be consistent with what we are doing in fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.231.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy has Ms. Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.232.0	Good morning again. On this amendment of the law that they present to us, we already argue that we will vote against the threat to the totality of the PP. We understand, yes, that it is a more technical modification, but we also believe that it is an opportunity to talk about it, to talk about the climate emergency, to talk about the triad that consolidated and that makes paradigmatic, genuine and innovative the Law of Climate Change, these three pots, these three taxes, that one ugly reference to the vehicles, as we are talking about; the other, to the emissions of gases of winter effect from the economic activity, and the third, to the emissions of nitrogen dioxide from the large vessels arriving at the port of Barcelona. Therefore, we have always defended that without the application of these three taxes, this law remained on the side, it was almost a declaration of intent, and therefore we are glad that all technical and political work has been advanced to make it possible, and we obviously regret the intrusions of the Constitutional Court into the sovereignty of this Parliament. In fact, this was our concern, as I don't know if they remember or don't know, but the application – and I have also said it on many occasions – is not as we imagined it, and it was much more in line than it was in previous interventions. It was our concern when– and I can't be saying it – especially Republican Left or, in that case, Together for the Yes he listened to the proposals of the CUPs and didn't squander on us as he just did in the past as Mr. Marc Sanglas said, if the CUP and the PP agree it's a good text. In this sense... I take advantage of this time to ask you not to be childish, and to work and talk about political arguments. It's just that I found it serious. We made a landing a while ago and the disbandment was this one. We've stayed a long way, the truth. One of ours, I said. We don't want it that way, we want a tax that you charge based on the use, the mileage, and not the potential emissions, as they're planting. And therefore, we believe that it could be, if I listen and take the words of the rest of the parliamentary groups that have made themselves in this intervention..., maybe we could open the door to improve this tax on the question, even though it is urgent. Because, and I will quote the well-known and famous environmental activist Greta Thunberg, who was rebuffing them to world leaders, that some say that the climate crisis is something that we all created, but it is a mistake, because if we are all guilty nobody is responsible, therefore, that we should place it not only in the responsibility of the use of the vehicle, that we should also place our most responsible, and in this case it is the economic activity of those who emit and benefit from the emission of winter-effect gases and other polluting and painful gases, in the head and in the fi, for life, for salvation. And, therefore, in this sense, we believe that in this urgent procedure we would try to work from here and hope for or have the opportunity to speak to it with political arguments. We also consider that this logic should not be accompanied by a look that tends to encourage the renewal of the vehicle fleet. That decarbonization of mobility and an alliance must be made with the local world so that it has tools to promote mobility with public transport. We are in favour of promoting public transport, not just encouraging it, making it accessible and, in fact, making it free. We will not have to reduce the emission of winter-effect gases for what it does to the vehicles if we can't, if we don't consolidate and if we don't make public transport accessible to the entire population. And in this sense, this links us – and I will be very brief – with the debate about the low-emission zones that have been driving since the Barcelona City Council. We believe that, precisely, these types of taxes that I insist on, there is agreement in part, that we would like them to be different, per us, per kilometre..., but it is linked to this proposal to generate these low-emission zones, which we believe has this objective: a renewal of the car park and not its reduction. In short, a new paradigm of private mobility, starting from the reduction of emissions, with the aim of consolidating the electric vehicle. And we think it's not the only way, but we need to empower other lives. And we also want to understand that this type of tax proposal, which I insist on, does not mean a negative reading, we are glad that it is so far ahead, even though not in the way we would like it, it must be accompanied by a territorial policy that is coherent, and hence, still the Government, its Government, is not in the boars.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.233.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Lluís Salvadó has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.234.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, Councillors, Members, Members, I can't begin in a different way from what he wanted to do, and he's addressing Mr. Rodriguez. Look, Mr. Rodriguez, do you know how many follies there are to the cause of Instruction Judgement number 13? Thirty-thousand. Do you know where these mails are at what you're referring to? Over. Do we know if they're deaf? From the Fakes Factory of the State Keyboards. Look, you. [[applause]] , you have..., other Members may not, but you have a lot more resources, you have a lot more ability to base your speeches on external information and illegally dissociated from the state's keyloggers. Yesterday, Councillor Josep Rull was calling for us to reaffirm ourselves in the fight against climate change and the reduction of CO2 emissions in Catalonia, an essential objective for the country, for the planet, for the generations that will follow us. It is a tweet that I wanted to celebrate, somehow, that we already find ourselves in the final line of being able to apply the Climate Change Law, and in concrete terms that imposes on the CO2 emissions of vehicles. A law that has been promoted since 2014 and that, in fact, has been approved with Councillor Rull, with the incorporated tax, not 2017, but the first government of 2016, the generation of 2016; therefore, it is a widely debated tax, extensively worked. And unfortunately, today this tax and this tax are more necessary than ever, depending on the information that appeared this week that the CO2 concentration records have been broken in the atmosphere. And, therefore, we are ahead of a global repte, a repte of an impressive magnitude and from all levels of administration and society we must give an answer. And despite that, the Spanish State has not been able to articulate response measures. I denounced the report of the European Commission of 2017 that placed the Spanish State as the third least developed state, the most regress in environmental taxation; it placed the podium in Lithuania, Slovakia and Spain as the most reactionary states in environmental taxation. And as the Spanish State often does, neither does nor lets do, and when from Catalonia we do what they don't do and what they should do, when we do what the European Union says, to what the international community says, the Spanish State does everything possible to avoid it. This Parliament, as has already been explained, on 27 July 2017 approved definitively, with a broad parliamentary support, this tax and this law, and the Spanish Government, as is usual – the People's Party in particular – presented a competitive appeal and held it for two years; for two years that have been lost, it has ceased to raise hundreds of millions of euros; hundreds of millions of euros that today may have been implemented in policies of environmental character and reduction of CO2 emissions. This law, the Climate Change Law, has been widely involved, has been intensely debated with the Government, with society, with Parliament and also with the Constitutional Court. Therefore, in these moments it is necessary to put this tax in an effective way, and, in any case, to incorporate in it some better technical character, which the Vice-President of the Government has not already referred to. It profiles and improves the taxable fact, the taxable subject, the taxable basis, to try to determine from estimated methods the emissions of the most ancient vehicles. And in any case, we remain frank, today the Generalitat has no information on the mileage of vehicles less than four years old, so we remain aware that the best way that this tax does not apply is to make unviable proposals for what the Administration will then tax them not to apply. Therefore, we are ahead of a complex tax – we are still very conscious – in the generation of the masters and the generation of censuses. And therefore, depending on those elements that we incorporate, we can make the project difficult to implement. In any case, we are ahead of an emergence, we are ahead of a very complex situation at world level, we have to give them answers. We have lost two years because of the Spanish State and because of the Constitutional Court, and in any case, it seems to me that it is a waste that we can deal with, as the Government demands, by extraordinary urgency, a tax, a law, which has been extensively debated, participated and which seems to me that we cannot waste more time. And, therefore, be able to approve it as quickly as possible and implement it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.235.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mrs Teresa Pallarès has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.236.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice President, advisors, deputies, deputies... Well, I want to start my intervention, Vice President, to tell him that I was thrilled to hear the words you addressed to Councilman Rull, when, with the approval of the Climate Change Law, he was already betting for this future of our children and ensuring firm policies for a return to the environment with responsible actions. Thank you very much, Vice President. I remember Councilman Rull, valiant and firm in his convictions, the very same ones that brought him shamefully and unjustly to prison. We have him here today very much, for this week too. [[Greetings.]] MPs and MPs, the world stage places us in the year 2050 with a population of more than 10,000_million people, most of whom, approximately 70_per_cent, will live in large urban conurbations. To attend to all of this people will need to think that there will probably be an energy consumption of twice as much as we currently have, and we will have to prepare for an increase of more than 30_percent in the production of food to attend to the supply of this entire population. And these days we don't stop knowing news like this historical record of CO2 emissions to the atmosphere, and we keep going. None of those we are today in this debate can escape that we are currently facing two great setbacks, looking at this future. The first is how we respond to growing social inequality – and I will not go into substantive debates, as could be the universal basic income, while I would like it – and secondly, the heavy environmental problems. As much as we have, as has already been said, forced ourselves to find the best possible fit – we have no remei, I would say – to the goal of sustainable development set out in the 2030 European Agenda for the United Nations. And, above all, at two points, we could be able to get there from the establishment of a progressive tax system, which favored social and economic and in the most solid way, and without any doubt, sustainability. We need to go in and talk in a clear way, open to all of the environmental tax, without any more problems. And speaking more of global projects than micropolitics. We pay attention to changes that affect the whole world, the whole planet, and what passes at a point in the world affects us in others. We are on the side, despite what some groups say, of a responsible government, a government that takes responsible action in this world that is so changing, and with these climate threats that are very obvious. We've already been very brave in Catalonia, and pioneers with the Climate Change Law. We have now recovered part of this law, which is being crushed by the Constitutional, which I will not explain, and we are taking courageous actions, both from the Department of Territory, from the Department of Enterprise. We have been able, from the National Pact for Industry, to take very strong action, for example, as aid for the decarbonization of the Icaen industry, we are carrying out programmes to monitor emissions, we are carrying out the National Pact for Knowledge and, of course, the National Pact for Energy Transition. Thank you, counselors, for your involvement in your departments. And the parliamentary group is there, by compromise and responsibility, but also by conviction. I won't go in and talk about the tax, because a lot of things have been said. We are clear that it was time to do this surgical work to finish on a complicated topic, that even the supercomputer's work has entered, to make possible all this great mess, this big date, for the duration of these notifications and to put this standard up to date. All we have to say is that we're in there. We have to start at once, we have to start putting ourselves down with these measures. It has been explained: it is not an afány recaptadors, there is a clear will to return to the environment. Therefore, listen, we can all say many things with respect, but I do not want to end without a reflection, especially for the Ciutadans Group and the People's Party Group. Mr Espinosa, Mr Rodriguez, the fund debate is not an environmental debate, nor one tax or another; the fund debate is the great ideological difference between you and us. As we have said a thousand times, the management that we can do from Catalonia of tax receipts is very small; therefore, we want a tax system change and a government model change that will make viable not only environmental policies but also policies of care for all people living and working in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings. Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.237.0	Say'm, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.238.0	Yes, for Lord Saved's allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.239.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.240.0	Thank you. Mr. Saved, I understand you're angry, don't you? ; e-mail won't be able to launch it for the pati. [[Rialles.]] But you think that if this email came out of some keystroke, it's from the keystroke in which you converted the Economics Department.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.241.0	We called for a vote. We'll vote for the threat to the full return of the bill. [[Long break.]] We are voting, therefore, for the totality of the return, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. The total was rejected by 4 votes in favour, 92 against and 36 abstentions. Accomplishments, therefore, the results, this initiative continues its processing. [[Question to the Government on the social situation in Catalonia]] [[300-00199/12]] And let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government on the social situation in Catalonia, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To defend it has the word the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.242.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Councillor Chakir El Homrani, deputies, deputies... First of all, Mr Councillor, I would like to acknowledge that the title of this inquiry was very general, and you will surely agree with me that when we talk about social policy situations, we cannot do it only in shallow places but we need to talk about much more general policies, right? And, therefore, I announce that I will focus my intervention on some issues that you perfectly know, such as childhood, the design of our income policies and the challenge of aging. But, more than that, I would like, above all, to contextualize this inquiry. Catalonia is an economically and democratically dynamic community; in fact, the Catalan GDP of the past two years is above Spanish GDP, and this is explained, among other things, by the fact that industry is at large in our production system. This also explains that we have a few indexes of at least a little under the Spanish medium, although it should be noted that since October 2017 the affiliation to social security has dropped a point in relation, for example, to the autonomous community of Madrid. For another band, we could say that Catalonia has a relatively high social investment, since the 83_per_cent of transfers that come to Catalonia are through social security; a 7.4 of the Central Administration; a 6.5_per_cent of the Autonomous Administration, and the rest, 2.4 of the local corporations. Just as in the context of the autonomous communities, the difference between those with a higher income and those with a middle income is growing. However, as the report indicates a few days ago, inequality and the rise in inequality in Catalonia are due to the worsening of the situation of people with lower incomes and not to an increase in groups with higher incomes. Therefore, counselor, even though our social investment is higher and our taxes on poverty, torture and inequality are slightly lower in some cases than in the middle of the state – it is not the case of the child poverty, or to emphasize that 21.3_percent of Catalans and Catalans are at risk of poverty – our rate of severe exclusion is increasing. And that doesn't happen in the rest of the State: while in Spain the population in a situation of severe social exclusion is reduced by 19_per_cent, in Catalonia it grows by 3.7_per_cent, it is to say that today there are 26,000 people in a situation of severe poverty in relation to the year 2013..., 26,000 more people; what is the same, one_of every five people in Catalonia is in a situation of exclusion. And what does that mean? So, all the while emerging from the crisis, Catalonia increases its poverty rate; that this poor woman more and more begins to become structural, since half of these people are in severe poverty; that a more polarized population is being set up between those who have more and those who have less; that the families who have gone through worse have faced a cluster of extremely difficult situations; that the face of the poor is that of a child, of a woman, of a single-parent family, of a migrant person and of a large person with low pensions, and that the personal, family and public protection mechanisms are absent or are clearly ineffective. In short, Mr. Counsellor, I will not be the one to tell you that in order to reduce the inequalities in Catalonia it is not necessary to invest more – obviously, we must reverse the details that have been made during these years – but the data show us above all that we must invest better. And this leads us to reflect on whether the current model..., whether the current policies are helping to achieve this goal. We are a rich society with poor levels and improper exclusion from advanced societies. In relation to childhood. Children under the age of seven continue to feel the poorest collection: 28_percent of them are poor. And it seems lied that before this given sphere we do not have a clear policy to reverse this situation. And not all the guilt, Counselor, is yours; in fact, only two years ago they began to have data on the poor child in Spain, and before she was an absolutely transparent poor, in the sense that no one saw her. But, of course, we are only outnumbered by poor children in Bulgaria and Romania. I insist, our policies to reverse child poverty or policies towards families simply do not exist in Catalonia. The year 2011 we had the child benefit, which was mine, and at these times we only have the state benefit. If it wasn't for these benefits, we wouldn't have any benefits from the recovery point to families or children. Or the refusal, Mr Councillor, not to equate the tax benefits and benefits of the families appointed with the single-parent families, an issue which has been approved in this House and which its parliamentary group and other parliamentary groups which give recollection to the Government have voted against recently in committee, and therefore, even though they have been approved in the motions of this Parliament, their Government has not done anything about respect. There is no law of families that give clear coverage to the poor child, and those that exist carry two years' stops. We're leaving the child benefit to put it in the guaranteed income of citizenship, but seeing as how it works as much as I know we're not getting to the most disadvantaged collection, and then I'll talk to you about it. Our child protection system was already collapsing in 2014, and I do not deny its effort in creating places to provide for the arrival of migrant adolescents without family references, but it continues collapsing and will continue collapsing for a few more years; as an indication is the situation of the workers and workers of the protection system: poorly paid, with precarious working conditions and without their department defending that it is necessary for all of them to have a protocol of aggression, working or not directly for the Administration of the Government of Catalonia. There are many more examples, which I cannot comment on for a long time, but the question, Mr Counselor, is where we are going, what is its model and what policies it wants to bring to fruition, if it is to have them, to reduce the child poverty in Catalonia. From the point of view of income policies, Mr. Counsellor, according to the Foessa report, only a 1.9_per_cent of the population of Catalonia has demanded guaranteed income from citizens. And if we take into account the high level of denials, the impact of guaranteed income on the most vulnerable population is minimal; according to ministry data, we are among the communities that reach just over 10_percent of people who are at risk of social exclusion. It wasn't that, the goal of guaranteed income. And when you're critical of guaranteed income, Counselor, it can't be that the government's response is that it's all right and that it's up to 120,000 people, because reality is very rough. And, therefore, I understand that a man wants to flag the policies he wants to carry out, but he also has to have the responsibility of turning them back, changing them or criticizing them when they are not making the objective for which they were designed. In this context, Mr. Counselor, have we already abandoned the possibility of concentrating the one hundred and fifty different services to make our system more efficient? We see that the capacity to reduce social inequality through social benefits is much reduced. Are you thinking of any other alternative? About the repte of the envelope. You know that the debate about aging is how we will deal with residential needs, in terms of health, too, of our own gods, fifteen years. During this parliamentary term, you insisted on your policy of ‘not one euro for the construction of nine residences. The lower councillor of this same Faristol said so bravely, and the Republican leftist spokesman, the deputy Marta Vilalta, stressed it a few days ago in committee. Now it is the assemblies that build, without having to do it, and the Generality, in any case, arranges some places. Another time the gatherings do that which do not correspond but seek solutions for the citizen, who claim you serve, making the reversal that would correspond to the Generality of Catalonia. But since the needs are there and need to give it an answer, sometimes there is no other way. What I do ask of you, Counselor, is that you sign quickly those agreements that you have reached with various assemblies. And let me, as an example, express to him the urgent need to sign the agreement for the construction of the new center of day in the complex of floors assisted to Santa Coloma de Gramenet so that the Assembly can start the bidding of the construction of this new equipment to the ancient lands of the Col·legi Miguel Hernández. Let's talk about the two great reptes. When you're growing up, there's one that's very important. There's two of us. The first would be how we respond to long waiting lists and current residential needs. And we have a second repte, which is how people can wrap up at home until there is no more remodeling that is institutionalized. And it seems to us that in this final objective the Generality is not posing. Another time, Mr. Counselor, we don't know where we're going, we don't know what you're thinking. Is no one in your government thinking more than six months ago? Therefore, with this question, what I want is for you to fix the lines of your policies for reducing exclusion and poverty in childhood, for the challenge of return policies, and for the challenge of aging; to which this country will have to face late or late, but which will be of fundamental importance if we want to have a coherent response and an effective response to the challenge that this country has in the future. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.243.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the advisor of Work, Afers Socials and Families, the Lord El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.244.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillors... Deputy Moreno, now he said, before I stood before the Faristol, who thanked him for all of it, as I said personally and I also say in public, because I believe he has placed three areas of the most important debates we need to have with the country, and in which, from the department, in a way, for some people, more suitable or less adequate, we are working. It has placed me at the centre, first of all, of an element: about how it is dualizing and how it is polarizing the situation of the poor in the country. Like the outflow of the crisis, a crisis that experienced the Catalan economy very big in the years 2007, 2008, 2009, has continued in macroeconomic data, but in micro, people have not experienced it. And this was linked to the model we came out of the crisis with. And that's why the families didn't get out of this crisis. We must also take into account that the taxes of the poor, as you know, are calculated on the basis of relative elements, around the universe we analyze, and always – and here I quote one of our needs and one of our demands – we discuss why if we analyze the poverty and the poverty rate, both the relative and the heavy poverty rate, starting from the population of Catalonia, then, in the distribution that is made at the state level, is calculated on the basis of the levels of state income; and this always ends up situating, because it is a dynamic economy, that it is an economy that generates gross internal production and that has also enabled a higher level of living, with a higher level of expenditure..., always in situations where the distribution of resources that is made from the state alone is different from the level of the poor at the level of the poor. And I think there's been a lot of uncertainty about placing an item: there's reversal and we need more reversal. And I'm already telling you that we need more reversal and soc the first one that's interested, – like the whole government, but in this case, for the department that I'm close to coordinating – to be able to improve the reversal with the assumptions of 2020, but that's not just the reversal that's done, but how it's used. And it's not just that, because we also have to be honest, up there is a time when there's a limitation, with which it's important to know how to use this investment in the most necessary areas. He's set me up with three concrete themes, huh? – and I went up a little bit, because it's because, if I don't, I won't have time to answer them all. The realm of childhood. I think it's important here an exercise that I think is honest, that has been done from the government, that is the agreement with UNICEF to be able to assess the investment in children from a cross-cutting perspective. You said it yourself, they're not ponds. And, as you said yourself, they're not ponds, and we need to be able to have this view of all the reversal. And with what? From this agreement. We are the only territory, right now, that has come to this agreement – let's hope that everyone enters it – and we have a lot of hope to be able to visualize it in the presuppositions of 2020; in all areas, because of the inversion in childhood it takes care of the department that I am close to coordinating, just as it takes care of the Department of Education, the Department of Health or any other department. I believe that this will make it possible for us to have a much clearer diagnosis of the reversal that is made and how we are benefiting or not benefiting from this reversal. There is also a reversal in childhood from taxation policies, and you know it perfectly well, and we believe that it is necessary. And that doesn't mean we have to rethink the protection system. You know, because we've talked some time, that sometimes I'm worried that in childhood policies we reduce the whole situation to protection policies. No, there are many more policies: promotion, etcetera. But it is true that there is a reality, that it is the children who enter the Catalan protection system that are different children – more diverse, different in their situation – from the children who hinder the moment the protection system was designed. And that's clear. That is why, also among the strategic Social Services Platform, which we presented to the parliamentary groups, there is a very specific pot around the modification that we need to make of the protection system. Just as I think – I don't know whether they did it or not, but I asked the secretary of childhood – the lines of modification of what the protection system is to be are well advanced and we want to share them and discuss them with you. I believe that here there is an element, a key element, that is how we ensure that all the reversal that is made is safe to poor situations, and how we adapt the protection system to the diversity of situations that are given. That's why we, now – and you know it perfectly – in the matter of teenagers and young migrants we've just made a change of perspective. And we made a change of perspective because, at first, the emergence was the emergence and what you had to do was the collide. Right now, our perspective is not only in the fold, nor much less, but is it in the emancipatory process, in the empowerment. And the efforts we have made have continued in this line, and then also in the line of community action. That's why we've got the dynamotizers in the city hall; that's why, in the month of December, the specific call for job placement companies to accompany the insertion of these young people, who arrive with profiles of seven and seven years. For this reason, we are also changing the dynamics of centers and going up and down, from seven to twenty-one years, which also takes into account this transition from when you grow up; because, I always explain, the difference between a year-old and a half-year old and a year-old and three-month old is very relative, although the legal situation is different. And it's in this line that we're working on, with a much more emancipating perspective and a perspective that it's meant to empower people to take their vital course and be able to carry their kingdoms. He explained it to his company, for the question he asked me: this week's principle I have been to Germany, Baden-Württemberg, also to know projects that are fan of dual vocational training with these guys, how these projects are working, which way... Much more flexible systems at the level of documentation, which know that it is also one of my demands, etc. With respect to guaranteed income and the concentration of benefits. The only thing I'm doing is... I think it's the debate we need to have, but we still realize that sometimes we can be contradictory, because we're talking about child benefits, but then we're talking about concentration. I believe that, with guaranteed income, what we are in the process of deployment, with everything you suppose. And I'm conscious..., I've come to the responsibility that only a 9_percent of the demands complement the demands, right now, we're in 30, and that doesn't let us leave people. One of the issues I'm concerned about is the inequalities in relational and cultural capital, which means that certainly people who need this service don't ask for them, and it's one of the themes that we're talking about most with the social fabric of this country. I think we have to go into this aspect, but then there are two debates that are of the essence, that are very important – and, as we have shared ponència, you know perfectly well that I have them very... – that they are, one, in which way we make it compatible or not with the returns of the work in an extensive way. That is to say, it has now been compatible, the law allows full compatibility, we agreed that we started for single-parent families; in the regulation, the names families are already introduced, some flexibility system is introduced around cooking... but I think that's where the debate is. And the debate is how 20 percent of the workers in this country, working, are in a poor situation. And that worries me. And what I don't want to do... and I always say that, but what I don't want to do is subsidize the name and I think you're making them what they don't have to do is subsidize the name, but we need to find a solution. And here's where the big repte is. In the matter of dependency... If you'll allow me, I'll make it guaranteed and in the answer I'll talk about dependency and active aging. I thank him that he is not solely dependent, but that he is active, because he has many elements. And here, there will be another debate and it's a debate that's happening all over the world, that's making them basic and how we face them. And I think we need to do this debate in this society we've been doing in a lot of European countries, with specific evidence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.245.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.246.0	... but I am aware of how it affects the labour market and how it affects this element that what the Administration does not have to do is subsidize the name, and I think that this should be agreed on, but from here, we need to look for what way we do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.247.0	Counselor, thank you. To make the answer is the return of the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.248.0	Thank you, counselor, also for the whole answer, let's say, in these few minutes we have to debate such intense and profound issues as these, right? I welcome the agreement reached with UNICEF to have this appreciation of the reversal of childhood policies; we will have to see the criteria for which it is valued, because, I also have to say, the last study we have had here at the time of debate – I think it was in the debate of childhood policies about one year ago – that it is estimated 9,000_million euros of infancy investment on the part of the Generality of Catalonia, which is absolutely impossible, and therefore we will see which criteria are used in this case, right? But, no longer just as a child... Mr. Counselor, I'm asking you for something that won't cost you much money, but that's very important if you want to apply policies, which follow: we need a social report. What we can't be in front of is the Save the Children report, the Caritas report, the Foessa report, the ones that follow, to try to have which is the social radiography of Catalonia. Years ago we approved it in this Parliament. At these times, there is no document on the part of the Government of Catalonia that says what is the social situation, but of childhood, of work, in the economic field, in the field of education, of salvation; we have no radiography. And it will be very complicated for you to know what policy you have to do if we don't have an analysis, and you have the instruments, you have the Idescat, you have the ability to do it, and we have years without this social report. On the Pla stratègique of social services, we like it. We'll see how the participation process ends, but we like it. We're in the same line, and I think that, besides, with the sector, it's been a long time since it asked for things that are interesting in this strategic area. I also ask you..., I want you to spend the same time talking about the child protection system..., instead, I would like you to use the same time that you use to talk about this child protection system for other childhood policies that are not protection and that affect all children in Catalonia and that affect families. I am saying this because, if not, we will all contribute to giving a vision of what child protection is all about in this country. He went to see European projects, that's great. Also the invitation you go to the United Kingdom, to know European projects for what it does to aging, how people can be at home and, therefore, can continue to make their place safe. Pass from the current ADS, from a few hours to the week to control that the person is able to take the medication, to be able to have an ADS of more hours, with teleassistance services. You had the standard deployment of the advanced teleassistance service, and we have not seen it; also the law of personal autonomy, that is many years ago and we continue exactly the same; or the deployment of the law of childhood for two years – it is very well done, but it would be good to deploy what we have, we have said it many times – or the law of promotion of associationism; the fourth stage of support of the Third Sector; this new model of special work centres in Catalonia that does not exist; the Catalan Agency of Social Protection, which has gone back to the Constitutional, which has been recovered. In fact, they told us that they would recover the social laws used for the Constitution and I still, Mr. Counselor, haven't seen them. So there's a lot of way to go, isn't there? Or the law of great people, which I think now, in the month of disembarkation, we will have a document a little more advanced than the initial powerpoint we had, but it is that you carry a year and a half, more than a year and a half as advisor to you, and your government and, therefore, I think you should try to advance a little more. And you say, "We need assumptions. So much – so much. We also needed the general assumptions of the state, huh? Those your party voted against and we're where we are, aren't we? But if the current assumptions, the ones we have now, which are 2017– and, therefore, thought of 2016– are insufficient, those of us who want to present us, say: « Tendran 2,200_million euros. Only with the reduction of university taxes and of the infrastructure commitments that the same government has, will it be very difficult for you to face the situation of social emergence that we have in Catalonia. So, I'm not saying you don't do it, it's fine, but what we need to define in a nutshell is where we go, what we want to do. And that, we, counselor, find it missing. We don't know where we're going, and it seems that many times the view is only six months away, what we're going to do from here to six months, if we're going to pose... Also something he's done, right? , to increase the degree II of the residences, the rates; it is very good, but with this we will neither create more places nor reduce the waiting lists. Therefore, certainly, we should know where we are going, among all, if necessary, that we fix the line to follow. But the people of the sector, the citizenry certainly needs to know what is going to be of them in the next five, god, fifteen years and how they will prepare this country for those challenges. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.249.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, it's the councilman's turn again. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.250.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, MPs and MPs... MP Moreno, let's finish the conversation a little bit, at this very short time that we have. We need to have a short look and a long look. I'm sure sometimes what I find to be missing, what I find to be missing as responsible for coordinating a department, with all that it means, is the difficulties to wake up to this long look – that I think we have many more tools to wake up to it among all, with the political differences that may be there – and the mass devoted to the short look, which is necessary, huh? , because, if not, we don't solve the day-to-day, which in the end also – and closes them to you as opposed – place me on a day-to-day basis. I said: "The tariff increase is good. Home, I think it's very good, and especially in a context of necessary presuppositional prorogation. Here we have to respond to two impulses, and two impulses that must be accompanied. And I say this publicly, just as we need to know how to increase the coverage capacity of the system, we need to respond to tariff needs, because, if not, there is a basic problem; if not, we can arrange many more places, but there will be no entities or possibility to manage it. And that's what we need to address, and it's on this line. Why did we make 5.88 of the second grade fee? Because we're going to a system that we think we're going to, a system where we converge the rate of grade II and the rate of grade III, because there's not so much difference in the deal. That's why we did this, with a view to a little longer than saying, "We have to converge the grade II rate with the grade III rate, because there's not so much difference in the treatment, and you know it perfectly. Em said: "The policy that is around building residences. Look, I won't do the easy answer, which is true and that..., say: « Home, I have a problem; there are thirty-eight points of difference between what the law marks and what the State inverts. I think we need to find a way to solve this, because it affects Catalonia, but it affects all the territories of the State. And the same tension situation goes all the way. Saying: "From here, what do we do? As we have to respond to these two impulses, we think it's much easier to generate response around the cover capacity generating synergies with the joints. And that's it. Why? I... this year we will end the year with the highest investment that has ever been made in all history in law of dependence and personal autonomy. In the system, we will spend for the first time in Catalonia of 1,500_millions. And that doesn't take all the times we have. That's also why these years the most important increments we've made have been around the SAD, and we need to rethink the SAD. And I agree. Why? Because also from an efficiency point of view. This will allow us to maintain a balanced system, because we cannot give the answer only with institutionalization. And then, I say, huh? , not naive: there are situations that demand institutionalization, that demand residential space. But we have to be able to do it. And that's the way. Because it's what people want, which is to wrap up their home in a dignified way, and it's even much more effective and much better for the quality of life. And we've got to get out of here. And from that, we will present – and you were in the Great People's Congress – the index of the law of the great people, and it is around this dynamic, to push much more everything that is answered and tools that facilitate the processes of aging at home, that we need to be able to do. And it's not about a lack of political will, the issue of residences, but it's about a question in which way we're more effective at giving more coverage. And we work together. We're accelerating the accelerators. And we've come to terms with a lot of municipalities. And our will is to come to terms with more municipalities, to increase this blanket capacity. That's why we changed some lines too: we did the planning from the comarques. I believe that municipalities of more than twenty thousand inhabitants need specific planning. And in future planning there will be specific planning for the municipalities of more than twenty thousand inhabitants. And respect the social report, I agree, and we're working around how to generate this environment. In the field of work, if I may, I disagree, because I think we have a very, very powerful observer of which we have many sectoral reports. The output model observatories are very good. I don't know if you know the last tool that we've generated in this observatory, which allows you to know region to region the petitions of work places of each professional area [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , of each profession, and, what is most important, also make an assessment of the quality of the occupation offered and the needs. In the social sphere, we need...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.251.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.252.0	... an instrument similar to the observatories of the product model and the labour market in the social sphere. And this I share and we are working on how to generate it, because there are no good policies – and I end up – without a good diagnosis and especially without a good ability to agree on strategic lines.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.253.0	Thank you, Counselor. We suspend the Ple until three-quarters of the late four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.254.0	Well, good afternoon. Let's resume the session.... [[Asking the Government about the management of public services]] [[300-00200/12]] ...with the fourteen points of the order of the day, which is the inquiry to the Government on the management of public services, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose the inquiry, the honourable Member Maria Sirvent has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.255.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Already before the last economic and financial crisis, public servants have been a target of the advanced capitalist. Today, at the threshold of a new economic crisis – if we can say that we have come out of the past – the point of reversing privatisations is to pass through the market the few spaces of life that remain in public hands. This makes the provision of service dependent on economic profitability, and when the search for the benefit, the private benefit, is the principal rector in the provision and planning of the management of public services, and not the rights and needs of the community, we lose in universality, we lose in quality, in sustainability and in quality of work. That's why we also want to put some data on the table. The outsourcing of public service management represents significant overruns for public administration: €47,000_million of overruns according to the Utopian and Communist National Securities Market Commission. And, therefore, this is an absolutely inefficient management mode. Outsourcing is a source of corruption. Let us remember that in 2017 50_percent of the investigations of the Antifrau Office had for object the public contract. According to the anti-corruption report of the European Union, corruption related to the public contract amounts to 13,000_million euros annually to the State – to the State also means at the conjunction of the Catalan Countries. And practically a corruption that affects all political colors: Innova, Mercuri, 3_per_cent..., many cases that the CUP we have denounced. And outsourcing is ultimately reducing and not guaranteeing access to public services to much of the city, because outsourcing means more waiting lists, first and second users and users, school segregation and job insecurity. To defend public services, in change, means, for us, to defend the public management of these services. Not any public management, but public management that means public control of the service, participation of workers and users, democratic and transparent management, planning focused on interests, rights and needs of the community, and not on the economic benefit. It means universality, it means quality and it means equity, which we do not disconnect from the public management of the services. In Catalonia, public procurement accounts for around 20_percent of GDP; 20_percent of GDP is very much. And, therefore, with these resources and through the management of the 100_per_cent public we could do many policies, and these resources could be directed directly to favouring a self-centered productive structure, no longer buying, for example, from companies that evade and evade taxes, no longer working with companies that do not respect the fundamental rights and that promote the exploitation of children from the world. We could also devote these resources to promoting employment policies that significantly improve the working conditions of workers, and deny the ideological primacy of market competition, based on the reduction of labour costs. And we could also devote these resources to developing feminist policies that, through public services, socialize healing, aging and dependence work, work that, without public services that put life at the center and not private benefits, is carried over the spaces of women. There are difficulties, it's obvious, but ultimately it's a question of political will, of political will, it's a question of model. And it's not just a question of social justice and more right, which also, but it has to do with sovereignty. If the management of public services as essential for life, such as education, such as sanitation, such as social services, are in the hands of private companies that advance their interests to the interests of collectivity, our lives, Mr Aragonès, will also be secreted. Today the president, to a question from my company Carles Riera, has said that he must put people in the center, and that he must walk towards the sovereignty. So while there are those who see in health care, in education, in social services, in water, a nixel of business, life, people or the needy of the community will be displaced from the center, and at the center the interests of the market and the battle for a higher rate of benefit are raurable. How do you want to build sobriety? How do you want to move forward in self-determination? Like a republic, if we don't have control over things as essential as education or sanitation? We are well aware of the context, we are well aware of the lack of political sovereignty, of the lack of political legal capacity that this Parliament has, of the limitations on expenditure imposed for the European Union, of the limitations still represented by the Finance Facility Fund – the new FLA – of the economic interventions imposed for the State, despite the strict compliment of the objectives of stabilization. We know well who are the difficulties, the legal impediments and the limited resources to internalize services that the contracting authorities have: the assemblies, the district councils, the deputies, the Government..., and we have also faced ourselves on repeated occasions. We've done some government meetings for People's Unit candidates or confluence candidates for the change that still have privatized services today, which we're trying to internalize. L'LRSAL, the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Public Administration, we know that it is a sharp instrument in favour of privatization and that it poses great obstacles to joint actions in the internalisation processes: complex studies that approve economic efficiency and financial sustainability, conditions that respect the repositioning rate, right? , that is, the limitation to hiring staff to the Public Administration... In change, when it comes to privatizing or outsourcing, the law puts the red captivating and everything is much easier. But, despite everything, the government can or cannot help facilitate internalisation processes. The government has alternatives, and we want to make proposals, we want to be constructive. The government can promote the management and internalisation of services; it can manage services directly or with a non-contractual regime, leaving them out of the competition of the market; it can promote legislative changes that facilitate the internalisation processes to the contracting authorities and that prevent our rights from being negotiated; it can also end up developing the law of the social and solid economy under forms of public-community or cooperative concertation, when it is not possible to arrive with the management of a hundred_per_cent public, with the guarantee of a democratic management, with the participation of users and workers. And that is why, Mr Aragonese, we want to ask the Government, and more concretely to its department, which is the model of public service management that defends its Government; which are the Government's initiatives in order to promote it directly managed one hundred_per_cent of public services. And when we talk about public services, we also talk about public management, not public services that are privately managed. So we also want to know what is the way in which you will facilitate, if you want to facilitate, the internalization of public services that are outsourced to public administrations today. We also want to know how the government is helping the assemblies that want to recover direct management of the services that have been outsourced over the last few years, to recover this public management. We would also like to know what the government's policy is in relation to the thirty-thousand outsourced services, more than thirty-thousand outsourced services. You know that the Law of service contracts, the Law of contracts of the public sector state says: "Mirin, manage the services externally whenever I can not do the Administration directly. You have 30_000 privatized services, 20,000_million euros for companies that earn a benefit to manage public services. Moreover, if they review the contracts that you have extended today, that you do not have an obligation to extend them, they could have finished the contract, we are talking about 7_million euros that you have today in your Florentino hands, with a law of contracts of the public sector that already allows to change this mode of management and including putting more social clauses, that it seems that they have not served as king. They also have 7_million with Eulen, convicted four times for violating phone laws and not respecting family and work reconciliation. They have 1,386 externalised services, worth 229_million euros, that end in guany; many of them end on 31st of the XII of 2019. We'll want to see what happens to these contracts and what will be the management mode for which you choose. And we don't want them cheating on us, we want them to tell us, please, what's the way they defend themselves? It is legitimate to defend any form of management.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.256.0	Thank you, sir. Next, to answer the question, has the words Vice President Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.257.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Member, I am left with your last sentence, which is: "It is legitimate to defend any form of management. So that's what it looks like hasn't been like this in weeks and months. I am pleased that we can have this debate in the Parliament of Catalonia; it can be held in other forums, but in the debate in the Parliament of Catalonia it is precisely where you have felt that we are bringing this debate to an end. It has begun to refer to legislation, both in the Community and in the field of the State, which conditions what is the activity of the Administration also in matters of how public services are managed, those that are indirectly doing, therefore, that are doing through some type of contract, concert, agreement or, even, subsidies, that this is also another area. There is a practice of certain public services that make entities of the third sector, cooperative enterprises, CETs, which is done through subsidies and which, therefore, should put it in order. And it's true, we've seen in the past decades a clear offensive to try to market a lot of business space that was close to the Administration. And, therefore, before this mercantilizing offensive, our obligation is, in the first place, to fight for the quality of public services, quality; to shield its public control over the provision of these services, and, obviously, in the case where the administrations choose to manage a service indirectly, so, obviously, to put the maximum guarantees on it so that they can see social clauses, environmental clauses, clauses to favor the combination of policies that the government defends. We have a legal architecture, which is a good part of European directives, but also the Law on Public Sector Contracts, which is, went so far as to say not only insufficient but also goes against this recovery of space in the public sphere in which we agree. Especially in a country like Catalonia that has built a state of well-being despite not having one. A good part of the services in the field of teaching, in the field of health, but also in the field of social services, of social protection, have an origin in popular initiatives, in civic initiatives, in cooperative initiatives, because this country, due to lack of activity of the State, has had to be built up of the welfare, and that is why we have a network in good part even in some areas that is a mixed network of service provision. But what we can do..., and you ask me: "We exercise sovereignty. So that's exactly what we've been doing in this Parliament of Catalonia for a year now that we've been doing a totality debate on the law of service contracts to people precisely to exercise sovereignty, to ensure that those contracts that are made in these areas of service to people do not apply only state law, but that we can from the Parliament of Catalonia be more demanding, we can establish more control mechanisms to precisely attack those problematic areas in which, in certain indirect management, in certain contracts, we already have here: chain subcontractions that cause job insecurity, and there is, and especially in some areas of cures, etc. You got it. Therefore, we need more control mechanisms. Secondly, the battle, precisely with a purely economicist optical, of which I got the concession, I got the contract, I got the indirect management, in the cases that it is, which only took care, which will offer the most cheap price. And it is obvious that if we go with a criterion that is to offer the most cheap price we already know who will end up with it, if we go to a sub-low price we know perfectly well who will end up with it: the subsidiaries of the great public contract experts, public contract experts in the field of infrastructure, in the field of construction, and that this expert has put it in order to enter the field of services. Therefore, to exercise sovereignty precisely is to contract, it is precisely to make a law of contract of services to the people who shield control, the supervision of these services by the Administration. Don't do it – don't do it – I mean continue with the application of state legislation in which it basically goes to the price, it goes to who offers it more fucked up. Therefore, the need to put people in the center – people in the center. I think that's the point. Is it the only tool, a law like this, of contracts to serve people, which, in fact, is a year ago that is... more than a year in parliamentary procedure? No, it's not the only tool. And I want to remind you that precisely what Mr Carles Riera asked this morning or what he was asking this morning – I think I remember – the President of the Generality in the control session of the Government is the policy of the Government; therefore, there are strategic areas in which the Government of Catalonia has recovered its direct management through a public enterprise: Aigues Ter Llobregat; that of major volume. And we had other options – we had other options – which was to make another concession again, but this government, too, because that's how we agreed in this Parliament, this government said: "No, no, listen to me, we have to manage it as a government through a one-hundred-per-cent public company. And that's what we did. Therefore, the major internalisation of a service especially in the area of water that has taken place in Catalonia has been done by this government recovering direct management in the area of Water Ter Llobregat, especially in an area such as water in which, beyond the investments in infrastructure, it is financed with the water channel, beyond that, so there are some aspects, such as at least water in high water, which is the case of ATLL, that we have knowledge of, we have the skills, because we had it until the year 2012 in the direct field of the Administration of the Generality. So, we're this government, the one we've done the biggest internalization. But it is also true that there are many joint ventures, and you have said so, that they want to carry out policies of internalization of services, of recovery, that there are inherited contracts, that there are pending aspects of depreciation of investments, many times contracts with automatic prorogations, difficulties of repositioning taxes. And you've been thinking about a whole series of difficulties. So, given that there are these difficulties, and while we are still working with a concert law that is already working on this government, and that we can obviously cover the contributions of all parliamentary groups, what we can't stop doing is that those services that are contracted to third parties leave them only with a state law that, I repeat, first the price. And that's why we have fought in this Parliament precisely, therefore, to move forward in this area with the Bill of Contracts to serve people; I insist, in order to guarantee – to guarantee – the supervision of the contract, to ensure the introduction of clauses that allow for the legal coverage that the lack of many joints to introduce liability clauses that obviously affect, in relation to environmental responsibility, in relation to the employment conditions of workers and workers, in relation to the plans, for example, the introduction of gender equality plans in these undertakings. One of the other problems is precisely the chain of subcontracting and the difficulty, every time there is a new subcontracting, of monitoring from the Administration which are the conditions under which this service is performed. And precisely, this law is what it does to give the Administration more ability to do this supervision, and also more ability to resolve the contract when there are incompliments, also giving the user the ability to intervene, mediating these quality, in the value of this service, which, if it is negative, can lead to the resolution of the contract. Therefore, we have brought the people to the center, we are clearly working to shield these services. And obviously, to say that this law does not privatize, this law does not oblige any administration to outsource things, simply what it does is that there it is contracted, there it is done through indirect management, so it is done with standards of quality, of supervision, a control that currently does not donate, and above all a much lower price on which it is ultimately the score to award it. He's been referring to the social economy, and I'm celebrating it. And I welcome it because it seems that, for what we have heard, not in this inquiry but in other public positions, the fact that there are private initiatives in the form of a social economy that can participate, working with the Administration in the provision of certain services is a..., go, is to give us to transnational capital. And it is obvious that this is not so; it is obvious that it is not so especially in a country that, as I say, has built the welfare state on the basis of social initiations too, of empowerment city to build a welfare state when the State did not do so when it touched it. Therefore, I am very pleased that we have this inquiry, that we can discuss it in this context. And we would therefore be fond of the proposals that you make to be able to work together. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.258.0	Thank you, Vice President. For the reply, the new Member of Parliament, Maria Sirvent, has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.259.0	Well, Mr. Aragonese, we also celebrate that we can debate these questions. But you in place to bet for public administration of public services bet to make things easier for the private sector. And as much as they want to lay down social clauses or add other elements that do not bring anything new about what state legislation already has, this means making things easier for larger and more powerful companies. That's how the free market system works for which you seem to be betting. Miri, the Aragonese law, the law of service contracts to people, normalizes the commercialization of services. And that's not sovereign for us. And it is that, with the utmost respect, it seems to us that you are making an important conceptual trap: you talk about public services when in reality your management is private and what regulates the law of service contracts to people is private management. The debate we're debating is about the model. And we appreciate you having him. Certainly, let's remember the last questions: 58_percent of Catalans bet for managing a public cent_per_cent of public services, 31 for the mixed model, 58.4 wants to end health care concertation, and only 23_per_cent believe that private management works better. Had you been a detail too, Mr. Aragones, commenting that the internalization of water was an agreement that we arrived at jointly with the last legislature. On the other hand, we do not deny that the People's Service Bill has measures that are well-intentioned, but, escorted, so much bo– so much bo– follows an anti-Florentine law and so much bo prevents the entry of multi-serve businesses. But it is not, nor can it be; let us not deceive ourselves. Because putting Florentine to compete with social and solidary economy entities is not an anti-Florentine law, because they already have a lot of resources for such a way of winning through offers in the dynamics of the free market. Mirin, have you been listening to the solidary economy network? Did they read the one they wrote about this law? They ask us not to use the social and solidary economy as the potential benefit of this law, and they say: "because we do not believe that it benefits the fabric of enterprises and entities of the social and solidary economy. They also say to us: "The social and solidary economy and the public sector are allied at the time of setting limits and bringing back the market and its logical merchants of life. I think we should get to work in this sense. In short, this law, Mr. Aragones, represents the consolidation and continuity of the privatization policies that have been successful or that have been the protagonist of the succeeding governments of the Generality. You intend to close this debate solely and exclusively with a debate about private management, and we want to have a debate about the model. In fact, this is one of the main demands of the Aragonese Law platform, which is already formed by a hundred collections and organizations. Mirin, when we debate with the People's Party, when we debate with Mr. Damià Calvet, so, look, they explain to us that they defend a private management model, and we as a minimum can contrast arguments, but we don't just know who is the model for which you bet. We see it with the facts, but not with the words. And they will say to us: "Well, we have to look at it on a case-by-case basis. But this isn't a technical question, it's an ideological question, it's a model question. In fact, we believe that if you bet on a 100_per_cent public management of the services, before outsourcing, propose and work in an internalisation plan with us; before the obvious uncontrollability and impunity of the companies, you will create an observer on the public contract; before the solety of the assemblies and the contracting authorities, therefore, what we would do is to facilitate advice and support and the strengthening of a strong public sector and public management. We are willing to work to shield public services and close the door to our privatizing processes, and we would like you to also be available. We are willing to expel the logics of the market, and also – and also – to work to break the law of social and solidarity economy that allows, this yes, to explore forms of public-community and cooperative concertation. It's over, President. Mr. Aragones, if you want to be a public cent-per-cent management service, effective, quality and worthy, we work together on a law that I forbid with you as education, sanitation or social services you can't negotiate. Do we pose?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.260.0	You're out of here, Sirvent... thank you. To finish this point the vice president has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.261.0	Thank you very much, President. I celebrate the whole, and I celebrate the whole, because I understand that it has been possible to open a new stage, to move from a dogmatic position, from an ad hominem campaign against members of this government, to an attempt to collaborate, listen to arguments and, therefore, from a criticism, I believe, that we have seen – and it is an opinion – demagogic to proposals – to proposals. You did it today, and I'm celebrating it. And I'm celebrating, what I've done. Proposals such as, for example, some that you actually..., this is consistent with what you were carrying in the election program – in the election program –, because we also discussed it with some of your companies and with you, too, when we worked the investiture to the principles of the year 2018: you had a proposal that was precisely to make the necessary legislative changes to increase the salaries of the servants who are indirectly, of the workers, to 1,200_euros. Therefore, legislative amendment, change the Law of Contraction. And that's what we've done: push a new contract law. When you're accused of marketing, tell 'the privacy community that this government has done, a servant who has been loaned with public workers and who has decided to switch to private businesses, a sun. He won't find it – he won't find it. He will find hereditary services, and he will find services that are already provided by private companies, cooperatives, or entities in the third sector. But you won't find a single one with public, working or working workers who have decided to outsource. He says: "This law opens the door to competition, right? , large companies, subsidiaries of IBEX 35, with cooperatives, with the third sector, with..., I add to it the small and medium-sized enterprises that serve as proximity to the territory. But forget one thing, what is it, that they don't compete, now? That we do not find ourselves now that, when a joint venture pulls a contract from a service because it has difficulties to internalize it and that before it lent an NGO, an entity of the third sector, a company of proximity, now that there is a branch of the IBEX 35 paying attention? Do we have to donate tools to the joints...? Because, by the way, you serve people, you serve people, 70_percent of these contracts are made by the local world. Therefore, we need to give special tools to an administration that does not have the legislative capacity to intervene in a much clearer way and to put much higher demands. Therefore, if your inquiry means that we are now opening a new stage of collaboration in this area, I welcome it. On participation, proposals of entities. The draft law that we have presented in this Parliament had a preliminary consultation before it began to be drafted. I recall that this law, which was begun by Councillor Romeva, began to be drafted before we found that the primary care centre of the Scale that had always managed an entity of the third sector was the Clece group; that we found that the home care service of the Barcelona Assembly, despite all the will that the Assembly had because it did not end up in the hands of a subsidiary of IBEX 35, was the same; as it also happened in meetings where we jointly governed the CUP and the Republican Left. So, what do we need? What do we need? A legislative instrument that gives this force. Therefore, this is why we did a preliminary consultation, in which entities participated. One time we had to govern the bill proposal, we made a public hearing, which we received hundreds and hundreds of contributions. And, once in this Parliament, there have been appearances of experts, of entities, some of whom are legitimately against the proposal – legitimately against the proposal – but they have come to the appearances before the question, in which practically all political groups have participated – all except their own – in which they have come, therefore, precisely to lay down their best, the changes they think... So, participation, there was. We are not a dogmatic left; not only the government, but especially the party we are part of. We're not a dogmatic left, we've never been. Since 1931 we've been a heterodox, not dogmatic, left. And, therefore, we understand – we understand, we understand – that public services cannot be faced with dogmatism, that they must not abandon any trenches, and that in order to achieve a great change, such as yours, of the total internalization of public services, which is still directly provided for the Administration, we must not forget the small steps that have been taken. And if we can improve the conditions in which the assemblies contract, we must be able to do it; if we can improve the quality of the work, we must be able to do it, and if we can also improve the conditions of the workers of the servants who serve indirectly, we must be able to do it and it is our obligation. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.262.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[The Government's inquiry into male-female rapes]] [[300-00201/12]] We move on to the fifteenth of the order of the day, which is the question to the government about the masclist rapes, of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Pueblo. Mrs Susanna Segovia has the word to explain the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.263.0	Thank you very much. Deputies, deputies, members of the Mesa, councillors, councillors, therefore, we turn a dillun November 25th, the international day of the struggle against the masculinist violins, where the protagonists are the women. It is the murdered women who were in the heart and in the head of all the women that we were there and all the people that we had manifested; it is the women who have been raped, assaulted, abused; it is the children, children and girls of male violence. 25-N the protagonists of that day were the women in the street, it was the feminist movement. From this group we want to express that we do not share either the analysis or the focus of some media and some political groups, which say that the protagonists of that day were the ultrathreat, with their actions to boycott acts of male violence. We don't share it and we won't give it to them, much so that it's the first time in history that this ultrathreaty that denies fundamental rights, that denies women's rights, that denies male violence, can do it from institutions, in good part, to the party like Citizens and PP, that have bleached them all these years, all these months. The feminist movement, the defense of the rights of women and the struggle against male violence pass through the feminist self-organisation. Now it's been two years since this government of JuntsxCat and Esquerra Republicana fan policies to fight against male violence. They've been two complicated years, sure, two years without assumptions, two years with strong repression situations, with political polarization and a priority that often doesn't respond to people's demands on the street. But it's also two years in which what they've done in male violence is practically nothing. And I know it's hard, I can't share your statements this morning or 15 days ago, when they say they do a lot of things. No, they do little. Beyond a campaign of masculinist rapes, they've done very little. And you know why? Because they don't have resources. Because they don't have resources and because they don't prioritize it when they make assumptions, because they didn't prioritize the assumptions they put forward for 2019, and we'll see if they put enough emphasis on what they're working for 2020 and what we don't have to talk about in a long way; but we already tell them that without a clear priority on these issues they won't find us, no matter what. Because to move from words to facts, counsel, call for resources. Because the political will and political priority that you call resources. A year ago we were asked about these dates – it's not just when we talked about it up on November 25th, but we think that when up on November 25th we should talk about it especially – and we've been reviewing the compliment control of the motion that was approved at that time, and it must not be that we share what a compliment control of the motion means, because for us it's a follow-up of those agreements, which is what happened in the time that has passed, but the answer that is given in the compliment control is to copy back and explain the plan that they have finally managed to approve, and that's not the answer to what was agreed on in a motion, that's not an answer. We understand that when, in the end, it has already been approved and they have the Comprehensive Intervention Programme against Male Violence 2019-2022, which, as it has been four years later, because we have spent four years without a plan, because from 2015 to 2019 there has not been, therefore, now that they have, I understand, that they have to assume and that they have to take a step and that every time they can speak, of the plan. But it's not enough. It's just that it's not enough, and that's why I hope you'll explain to me something more than this placard that we can already read. Because more than that, it's a plan... it's that there's no global premise; it's to say, there's no way to see where resources are being spent on male rape. You said last week that the contribution of 2019 from the Generalitat was 19 and escaig. There's no way to see it, there's no way to know it. We'd have to devote ourselves to summarizing parties, parties, parties, and calling for presuppositional performance reports, to find out where this is. The truth, counsel – and we must be honest – is that much has not been done. It was approved a year ago that there should have been eight ifs in operation; we finish the year and follow there the same as last year. Now there are a few, with the resources of the state pact, late and often lost, and even more using the way of the grant and carrying entities with water to the neck in order to prepare in a week... because, if not, the resources are lost. Counsel, ask, ask very concrete questions. Is there any planning that frames the money that is being invested from the generality with those that come from the resources of the state pact? And if that's the case – why haven't we seen it, but there is – how did it happen? Where'd you do it? Has this been discussed in the National Commission for a Coordinated Intervention against Male Violence? Because it exists, this commission. Another question: when was the last time that this commission was convened that has to coordinate the action of all departments of the Generality in the fight against masculinist rape? Did he meet again this year? Has a meeting been held by the technical committee of this committee? Are the campaigns that you are a fan of, for example, the Catalan Institute of Women and the Department of Youth, which practically have the same goal and message and have been done one for one band and one for another, one with a logo and one with another? Have they talked to him? Have you seen that they were doing well the same or very well? Is there any coordination between the departments of the Generalitat, which is the job that you should do as a counselor, in the fight against masculinist rapes? Because, if there is, it's not known, it's not seen. What is always above the entities is that there is a lack of planning, that there is a lack of resources, there is a lack of coordination, that there is improvisation..., they only have to listen to some of the appearances that we have been feeling in this Parliament take away from the pose of the escort law or those that were made yesterday in this very Parliament to act against the masculinist rapes. Entities, organizations are saving this government's furniture, they're in front, they're in the front row, they're in the front line. And what has happened since 2008 is to lower the money that these entities receive from 2 million to 700,000 euros. The Catalan Institute of Gifts continues with the same 8_millions. We have asked them repeatedly to return to the levels before the retails and, from their government, they have come to tell us that better than not, because they have not been able to do things like these. And it still doesn't appear in any of the proposals they're talking about. Counselor, this is political will, it's political priority. I also want to ask you how many times you've been to the National Council of the Dones of Catalonia since you've been here. [[Pause.]] Have you ever been there? Because what they're telling us is not. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, so they're deceiving us, because they tell us that there hasn't been, and they don't go to the main space where they define policies that are fan of fighting against male violence and women's rights, I don't think it's showing political will. We have not spoken this morning: the 1_million euro report that has been critical – if the information is not correct it should also go to the journalists that have been talking about it – that from 2009 until now there has been a 1_million euro reduction in the assumption for male violence; thirty-three people have been reduced from the seedlings. When did they start to reverse retail? It's information that came out these days, it's public. There's also been talk this morning that Catalonia is the place where the most orders of graduation are rejected. And there was also talk this morning about the relationship that this has to do with the papers of forensic units that have to support victims at the time of filing applications and petitions. A two-month average to have a stay in the hardest cases of male violence, sometimes up to four months; women and families who do not have a housing response that allows them to create a repair. There is no institutional coordination with the emergency services of local authorities, which are often drawn from pensions and floors, and they do not know what to do, because there is no response from the government to attend to this emergence. There is no regulation of SIADs or territorial circuits. We don't care about kids and girls, and it's not a women's repair process. That's the answer you've got all the time. We saw, after two years, in the diagnoses that were made of the two years of the Law's application against masculinist rapes, all the holes and all the shortcomings that the attention network has, and they are still unanswered. Another example: you also talk about training, awareness, the need for schools and functional training. One of the projects is the coeducation project. I don't know if he might have been at the Feminist School Troubadour that he did a few days ago, where there were exactly staff from the educational community, teachers, teachers, mothers and fathers, and he talked about this project. I'm telling you what he said: there's no information, no action, no training. They do not know whether they will have resources at the end of the centre's autonomy; therefore, if the direction wants, it will do so. That's what he explained there. If the address doesn't want to, then what do we do? "Basically, it's another time a political statement with a written plan, that's what it said from the Department of Education. I should have checked and talked to the people who attended, because it was one of the answers they gave. And that's just with the pilot schools; those that aren't even in this pilot program, they'll catch up. Counselor, institutional violence is also not giving response from institutions. The law of masculinist rape must incorporate this institutional rape. This morning we spoke: the present must be feminist, because the future is not masculist. And we can't let the women who are on the street leave behind this violence and not the entities who are giving them a first line answer. And I will ask you this, that the answer, please, can be concrete, can answer the things we have asked, that you do not do another time a list of the strategic plan, because this is what we can already read and we already have the information by writing. And that, please, we can get out of here with concrete proposals that we can also move. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.264.0	Thank you, Mrs. Segovia. Then, to answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Meritxell Budó, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.265.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Member, before entering into the concrete content of what this inquiry is, allow me also to replenish, therefore, the date on which we are dealing with this debate on male violence, and which coincides with the week on which we commemorated the International Day against Masclist Violence. In fact, to commemorate this day he agreed, a manifesto was agreed between the different organizations of civil society, entities, etc. and the different institutions. A manifesto that this year wants to commemorate and to make visible this date and everything it represents. A manifesto calling to continue working together and in a coordinated manner with the involvement of all administrations and social agents in order to eradicate masculinist rapes and the reparation of all victims. A manifesto that values the constant and tireless struggle of feminist movements and recognizes the strength, courage and courage of women who find themselves in a situation of male violence, those who have overcome it or those who have unfortunately been murdered. And on the occasion of the commemoration of this November 25th, from the government we have launched the campaign "Neither aggressor nor accomplice, we stop the masculinist rapes. A campaign that has been launched with the objective of reinforcing the messages addressed to the aggressors and which places the focus of the solution of the masculinist rapes on their responsibility and not on the women who suffer it. Because every woman who is a victim of male violence knows that she is not alone and that she is not ashamed or guilty of being a victim of male violence; shame and guilt must be felt by the abuser and not by the victim. The campaign also highlights the role of people around and witnesses of these attacks, since before the masclistic rapes it is not possible to have a neutral stance; neutrality before a situation of masclistic violence makes you complicit. Because the people around it are part of the solution. Because through the social sanction for the aggressor, he becomes an active agent in the solution to male rapes. Therefore, we jointly bet on promoting a protective environment, which is the one that rejects masculinist rapes and punishes aggressors. I wanted, therefore, to begin my response to this call for this International Day against Masclist Violence. In fact, these international days, what they achieve is that some governments are taking action, but above all, that citizens know better the problem and, in this way, they are demanding the performance of their political representatives. Because in order to eradicate this scourge that is male-based violence, we need to work all kinds of work, from government to civil society, and we need to continue to build up efforts, energies and compromises. And yes, the fight against male violence is a firm compromise of this government. And yes, it's a compromise every minute and every day. Actually, all the days of the year. But it's true that this International Day against Masclist Violence drives debate about this fight, drives awareness and gives a loudspeaker. And that is also the responsibility of governments. Now, for example, I think it's also very important, and it's more important to fill out the fact that this inquiry has presented. In fact, Mrs Segovia, you yourself in the past plenary asked me an oral question about male violence and, therefore, allow me to thank you as well as from parliamentary activity, also from the control and taxation activity of the Government, it is possible to promote and reinforce this objective of this international day. I share, Mrs Segovia, the need, but also the opportunity to talk in this room about male violence and above all on these days of special sensitisation. And as you know, in July, from the Government, in July of this year 2019, from the Government, we will approve the second Comprehensive Intervention Programme against Masclist Violence, which covers the entire 2019 fiscal year until 2022. A program that is designed to be continuously evaluated. The first quarter of 2020 will be the evaluation of the actions implemented this 2019 and, in this way, we can determine whether these actions can give an effective response to one of the great objectives that we have proposed to us, which is to give coverage to the shortcomings detected in the evaluation studies that have taken place in the past years, especially for what it does to the Service and full recovery for women, for their children and their daughters in situations of male violence. And we do this, as you know, by planning concrete interventions from the six strategic objectives that frame this integral plan, and that you know perfectly well and therefore do not need us to go back – as you said to your question – to enumerate, right? But tell him that in this sense, and we compromise with these marked objectives, from the government we are working together from all the departments of the Generality. And in fact, there are also concrete objectives marked by different areas. And if I may be allowed here, then, yes, I will already list concrete actions, as you asked. In habitat intervention themes, because we are aware that in the field of habitat repair the issue of habitat is a key issue. And in this we share this diagnosis with you. In fact, when we talk about housing need we have to design public policies that clearly separate what urgency means, therefore, associated with a temporality, of the permanence, or so, that is the accommodation that allows you to rearrange. And, therefore, all our policies must be able to respond to all two needs: urgency and permanence. In this sense, the immediate creation of fifty-nine places, which are attached to the current eighty-four, is to say, fifty more women and their children and their daughters in charge, which will allow, from one band, to end the current waiting list and create residential spaces for women who have suffered different rapes or who are found in personal situations that require special intervention. We also talk about data from the Emergence Table: the year 2017, was awarded a hundred_two habitations to women victims of male violence, and the year 2018, will be awarded a hundred_three. And it means that at the Emergence Table..., with the incorporation into the Habitatage Agency, for what it does at the Emergence Table, a social worker specialized in male violence has been incorporated so that she can support those victims who arrive at the Emergence Table. In terms of intervention, labor insertion is also a very important issue in the repair of male violence, and therefore, different interventions that go into the framework of specific programs of labor insertion in women victims of male violence, as well as the implementation of specific figures of "work insert for the case of women of male violence". We're also talking about other interventions in attention and recovery, as you called SIES, right? So remember that on November 13th, I said, as I announced in the last Ple, four SIES were called, that it is in the area of the Vallès, the Penedès, the Bages and the Barcelones, with the will of the Government to continue developing this network of specialized intervention services. We are also talking about the best in the intervention of girls and children of male violence, and in this sense, we have incorporated the rights and interests of children and children – also of adolescents – in interventions with male violence, developing specific and specialized attention. We're also talking about coordination and network work protocols defined in SIADs, right? Speaking of SIADs too, so let me say, we have approved an increase of €500,000 for which it refers to the convenient march with local authorities for the provision of this service. Remember 100_dos SIADs and five offices of the Català de los Dones Institute that at these times more than eighty_ thousand annual attentions. We have also put in operation the monitoring service to the court and the emergency gathering. But in this sense, you said it: resources, resources, resources. Certainly, what we need to be able to ensure is that all forms of male violence are addressed in an integral way from public institutions; it can be ensured that all the reptiles we have on the table are able to absolve. And, of course, we will only do this with a great deal of effort and a strong response to the problem, but also with those tools that we need to be able to carry them out. And in this sense, place them to give recollection to these presuppositions of 2020 that will allow, precisely, to increase these resources destined for the struggle and the eradication of the masclistic rapes to our country, in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.266.0	Thank you, Mrs. Budo. Next, it's Congresswoman Susanna Segovia's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.267.0	Thank you, Counselor. About the manifesto: yes, yes... – can I drink water? – on the manifesto: if we have already said so, if surely on the landing and on the answer is easy. We asked them a long time ago, if they were a feminist government, we thought they were a feminist government of speeches, but not of fact. The facts do not translate what is said in the words. They're always talking about assumptions and resources, but it's when we talk about assumptions and resources, what they say is not there; it's not there, and, besides, it's not there. Or else, it's been a while since there have been any motions here that say that we want to see clearly a clear match of how much money is spent on male violence. Everything you're saying is being done, with what resources and where to be done. And there is no way, but it is that, besides, I have asked some concrete questions, which I would like to repeat again, because they are not questions that arise from the non-res, they are questions that arise from the findings that we have with entities and with organizations that are working in this, from the comparisons, from the interventions that are made in public acts. When was the last time the National Commission for the Coordination of Intervention met? It's just that it was a dismemberment of the past year. It's just that he hasn't met this whole year. Not once! The technical committee, neither. Or, the space that is supposed to coordinate the performance of the departments isn't found since a year ago. That's why there are campaigns from Youth and from the Catalan Institute of Donations, which make no sense that one knows what they're doing, and what they're doing with the other. And that's that it's also what the entities carry, that there's no one message, that there's no unit of action. The entities submitted a grant here, submitting another proposal there. A concrete example: the 2030 feminist agenda. So, it's a program that finances the Catalan Agency for Development Cooperation, that they give the other day that they should finance it. But, it's just that more than that, the next call was out of grant. So, a program of this... of incidence, of ODS, that will explain to me if you don't have to see with what political lines are, it's gone out of finance. What coherence is that? And not for the actual program, but, exactly, they talk about the departments between them from which is the proposal that is given to defend the rights of women, from which space will it give...? So, from this space you can focus on the 2030 agenda, from this other, with habitat, from this..., if you don't find it to talk about it. How can they do that? You went to the National Council of Donations. He says yes, but it's just that we've been told that no, that once he's a counselor, he hasn't been there, you know, personally. Perhaps you can tell me here, before the Faristol, why you were collected, whether you were there or not, because if you were there, I won't have any trouble after passing this information and it will be more public and you will know. Other fears. Everything that's been talking about housing and the Emergence Table, so I understand, and that's fine... and if that's what it's all about, actually, the questions and the questions that we're asking here, fanciful. Because sometimes it is, that what is said here, then, should serve because things are active. Let's see what the damage is to the women waiting at the emergency table. Let's see how it translates the fact that there's a social worker. It is in order not to place mass charge on this person in concrete, because God does not have the work he has to ensure that the waiting times of women waiting for habitation are doubled. But it's that, besides, I think it's worth going one step further, because one of the questions that came out in the assessment of the law's two years of male rapes, is that it's a law that in its moment was a law of great consensus and great advances, but that gives years later, between the lack of deployment, the lack of resources and things that were not incorporated in its moment and that is now believed to have been incorporated, so it's a law that at some point – and has already been approved in this Parliament, also, various times – so it will have to be done. It will have to be opened and a reform will have to be put in place. And we believe that what should be done is the government, because who has the ability to make a participatory process and build consensus on a new law, is obviously the government. But we can't wait any longer, and we can also move and make proposals. Because, at the very least – at the very least – it is a law that should include institutional violence, which is not inclusive. And it's a law that, like at least, should include digital and technological violence, which is not included either. It is a golden opportunity for us to have all our prayers in this legislature, which we hope will last, to open a debate and to reposition Parliament in the face of the struggle against masculinist violence. What we want to know is whether the government will be willing to lead this fight. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.268.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To close this point, you have the word again the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.269.0	Well, thank you, Vice President. Congresswoman... well, for what you do to the National Commission for a Coordinated Intervention against Masclist Violence, so, on Tuesdays you are summoned and, therefore, on Tuesdays you have this scheduled meeting, the last meeting was held in July, in which, obviously, therefore, I attended as a councillor, okay? And it comes together, so, as I said, on Tuesdays, that's what you're providing for the proper operating rules of this commission. And so, so, we're on our way. In this sense, the late National Council of Dones, on November 16, you asked me, I was not able to attend for reasons of agenda, but in any case, I do not mean that we are not represented as the Government and, therefore, that it cannot be I do not mean that the representatives – I see here the president of the Catalan Institute of Dones and the Director – are perfectly well represented by the Government in this sense. Well, in fact, I also wanted to respond to a statement that you made in your intervention, which said that some of the government had transferred to him not to ask for more resources from the Catalan Institute of Donations, more resources than these 8_millions he was commenting on, for this inability to manage these resources of more than expected. And, certainly, that's not true, and let's just say that we can't just manage that from the Catalan Institute of Donations it's required, it's more resources to be able to manage, among other reasons why we have enough complaints, or we have many complaints that there isn't enough funding in the municipal SIADs, and therefore from the Catalan Institute of Donations there's this constant demand, isn't it? , so as to have more resources to be able to equip, precisely, the municipal SIADs with these tools that they also require to face up to this struggle against the masculinist rapes. Well, as I said, from the government, because you were coming back, too, weren't you? , to insist on this discoordination or this lack..., look, I can tell you that from the government we work with an integral vision so that we can ensure that all the masculinist rapes come from the different public institutions in an integral way. And this integral response, this integral view, we understand that it must not only be a response once the male violence has taken place, but also that the vision must also be integral, and in this we are also compromised as the Government, it must be an integral view in all that is the design of public policies, taking into account especially training and prevention. We believe that in this sense it is also important, and this task and this commitment on the part of the Government is also important. In fact, we consider that we will not get out of the care logic if we do not make more awareness and if we do not make more prevention, and in this we are compromised. And in a very special way in the realm of teaching and in the realm of the youngest women. And as for the younger women, I also want to explain that we have started a new service of face-to-face attention to victims of male rapes addressed to this target of young people between fourteen and thirty years. In fact, you're talking about a lot of times we don't have that we don't just face, and we're calling for these resources to be able to face those times. Here we will find ourselves and so much good we can work pleas to improve all these resources that must allow us to fight this chakra of male violence and power to last longer in this sense. As I said, however, we are still committed to working, too, such important and important issues, such as training, prevention and awareness-raising, as well as avoiding cases of male rape. Let me also detail that, in 2020 forecast mode, we have forecast, and I think it is important, too, a crisis intervention service in cases of rape. That this still doesn't exist. We've already done this in the case of feminicides, and now we want to inge, too, this service to accompany victims of rape, which we consider necessary, important and cabdal. And also a special training program for sexual assaults on the network professionals who pay attention to these people. But, as I said – at the end of my intervention and let me now insist on it – for this reason we are united, we are firm, and resources are calling for. And I'm sure the will of all of us goes through this unit, through this firmness, and also through the will to get these resources. And it's at this point that I insist and that I want to do this thing that I need to have assumptions, that I'm sure that with the will and with the responsibility of all of us we can achieve it. And let me finish my intervention in the same way that the manifesto of this day 25 ended, which is that we call together, that if they touch one of us they touch all of us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.270.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the political situation after the elections on 10 November]] [[300-00203/12]] Next, let's turn to the seven-point order of the day, which is the question to the Government about the political situation after the elections of November 10, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.271.0	Thank you, Vice President. Councillors, ladies and gentlemen, Councillor Budó: You seem to be making an eternity of the famous 10N, but it's just 15 days ago. On November 10th we went to vote, the fruit of the Spanish state's toxin to remain in a huge instability. Without a solution for Catalonia, Spain will continue to live, remain in an unstable situation. That's it, and everybody knows it. Now, however, we see that from this 10N it is possible to derive a new scenario that must take advantage of. It's an opportunity even though the PSOE seems obsessed with derailing. Things have happened, things will happen. It's an opportunity. In fact, we are obliged to make it happen, of things, and to take advantage of them, even though Minister Calvo mismatches say that self-determination is out of the question, and that the great dialect offered by the Spanish Government is going from head to head, to a bilateral commission, to a committee of the time when the State and Catalonia negotiate the transfer of competences. Is this really the Spanish government's diagnosis? As if to explain that we are no longer in year 92, the Olympic year. As if it were to say that one thing was to talk about the Cobi, and the North Pot, and another very different, to talk about freedom, counsel, and democracy, and the political will of Catalonia. But we are at a very serious time, far greater than we are because we are once again left in only superficial, aesthetic attitudes, in the game of always, of each investiture, where it is more important to appear than not to be. Minister Calvo's attitudes are a mistake, as is the PSOE's approval of the digital LOAPA. It's a big mistake, the digital cop of being equal to Spain with the Xina is a mistake. It's serious mistakes. Where are the gestures to promote propriety? Where are they? In any case, imagine that Calvo says what he says by internal balances, which can be, you know, to look like one thing, and then effectively negotiate with Catalonia. That's why it's important to know if there's anyone in the other band; someone, but seriously. Is there anyone there? If they want to do politics, there will be politics. And finally, there's gonna be politics because we're willing to pull ourselves together, but... and I'm asking the people of the PSOE and the PSC in particular, why do they make it so difficult for us? When today the TSJ dropped the decree to open the delegations of the Government of the Government of Catalonia to Argentina, Mexico and Tunisia, what are they playing at? Yeah, separation of powers, we know, it's the song of separation of powers. But someone brought these delegations of the Generality to justice, and this someone, they know who it is? This someone is Abengoa's shareholder minister, Minister Pepe Borrell. Is there anyone who can set criteria? Can the Madrid government look at the election results and hear the real pes de Catalunya? It's important that Pedro Sánchez and the PSOE understand that this time and political doing is exactly the opposite of marketing politics. That's got to be right. As President Torra says, and I say it very well: how much democracy is willing to take over the State? For what we see, today, very little, we go right. But I come back: how much democracy are you willing to take on? Politics is not a picture. That's got to be a solution. This doesn't have to be selfie. We don't want any chips on the scale. We don't want to be scraped to the Moncloa stairwells. But we don't want them to take our hair either. Catalonia is full of chips on the scale. That's what I'm looking for, that's what I'm looking for, that's what I'm looking for. When will they get off the donkey? When they leave him not at all, at all important? In reality, ladies and gentlemen, reality is stubborn. Democracy is only saved with democracy. As said lawyer Antonio Garrigues Walker, UCD politician, inspirational centreman and liberal, as said Garrigues Walker, in democracy the right not to dialogue does not exist. And to dialogue – it is also good to remember – you need respect and recognition. We are not conditional, we do not believe; we are not talking about conditional, we are not talking about conditional, we are talking about the minimum reasonable that must be given in any relationship: knowing who you have in front and who you recognize. How do you want to talk to someone if you don't recognize him? Recognising and knowing who you need to talk to is basic, it seems essential. We are, however, insisting, before an opportunity. Everyone has to be aware. So, counsel, I'm telling you, but who I should tell is Pedro Sánchez. President Sánchez, I stopped dealing with this investment as if it were an investment of any kind, and, above all, centres's; it deals with this investment as it is: an opportunity to solve a big problem that requires a lot of intelligence, patience and above all childishness. Mr. Sanchez, you control your ministers, you control your party, you control the voices that don't want dialogue; it's not time for provocations, it's not time for 155 digitals, it's a barbarity. Mr. Sanchez, grab the phone and trick, mogui's, talk, do something, do it. President Sanchez, to play the cat and the rat, to play phone games, to play teen games. The phone itself is nothing, let's get over it, and we have to dial the dialog. See, it looks like the PSOE wants to avoid us, but we'll find ourselves, it's law of life. Then what? What do they have to tell us? What proposal does the Government of Spain have for Catalonia? We equip the content dialog, we equip it with reality and, ultimately, we equip it with solutions. We're the ones in the solution and we're willing to play. Yes, we demand respect and recognition of all interlocutors. Catalonia is a nation that organizes politically with a parliament, with a government and a presidency of its government, and also with a party system. The recognition of the Spanish Government's own institutions in Catalonia is essential. This recognition goes before any limitation or tactical censorship. We are who we are, we are what we are; therefore, the solution passes through everything and passes through everything. It's time for a dial without conditions, which I have already said: the only condition, however, is that there are no conditions. It's no contradiction, it may seem, but it's no contradiction, it's the face of maturity that we all have to self-impose. This means, without exclusions, that no one will be excluded, that it is to recognize all the interlocutors. It is very important to recognize the country's own institutions, the institutions of Catalonia and its President, the President of the Generality. And from a sense of strict realism, elementary realism, exile must be recognized, with President Puigdemont, and prison must be recognized with Vice-President Junqueras and Councillors Romeva, Turull, Forn, Rull, and Jordi Sánchez until a very short time ago, president of our parliamentary group. We want a government-to-government dialog. Counselors, counsel, proposal, work, I know they will, defend a dialog between equals, equals, from government to government, from president to president. And, above all, counsel, we never lose sight of this, that what we have in hand is a political problem that will only be solved, that Catalonia will only be voting. This is not important people locked in rooms deciding for the rest, it is very hard work, surely of discretion, balance, but knowing that the solution passes by to vote, and also to respect what is the vote. I insist, in democracy the right not to dialogue does not exist. We must be strong in this idea: without a dialogue there is no democracy. But I'll still tell you something else, this address to the Spanish government. We want useful dialog; lying and trilerism do not serve or will serve. 2007 Rodriguez Zapatero, the Pinotxo de Ferraz, was wrong [[remorse of the voice]] Pedro Sánchez takes note of this: this time they won't get away with a « I will support and three smiles. We're staggered, and you've got enough tea water. And a warning, also, to navigators, I see that in the last few hours everything that the PSOE has done could have done perfectly the PP: « eye, « eye with Excels, « eye with calendars, « eye with the traditional numbers of electoral escapism of the PSOE, « eye. President Sánchez, I'm good and I can hear you from the state, because in Catalonia we have the feeling of the state. We have an opportunity. And we want dialogue, and we want negotiation, and we want useful solutions, from government to government and with all that we need to be. Thank you very much. [[Greetings and remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.272.0	Order. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] To answer the question has the word the councilwoman Meritxell Budó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.273.0	Well, thank you very much, Vice President. Mr Pujol, Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament, I begin this second question by sharing an assertion that it could certainly also be a conclusion to the current political situation, and that is that it is confirmed that the Spanish State is ungovernable in Catalonia. But the hardest thing about this situation is not the fact that you passed on November 10th, but that we're taking too much time now, so long as we can, as you said, we have to ask ourselves if they prefer to continue self-locking before they unblock the political conflict with Catalonia. However, it is certain that today's question also raises the difficult situation that we are experiencing, not only in the institutions, but also in relation to the situation of political prisoners and exiles and the assembly of the citizenry, and to which this repression of the Kingdom of Spain presupposes on the most fundamental rights of people and as a people; a repression and a regression that provokes a crisis that means more than doubting our borders and that affects a Europe that has so far remained largely silent before violations of human rights by a Member State, in this case of the former Spanish State, as stated by the United Nations Treball Group on Arbitrary Detention, where it also finds that the process of expression only involves the participation of the citizen in the proceedings. And in order to prepare this inquiry, I also wanted to go back very carefully to all that, therefore, which was manifested in this same chamber during the plenary of the general policy debate and in the plenary of response to the judgment, to the sentences of the October U. I would also like to focus my response to your inquiry on what we have, in common, in terms of freedom, freedom and self-determination, and how institutions can take a step forward, as we can find a common strategy from our institutions of self-government, starting from the basis that we will not achieve only with institutions, starting from the basis that the force and engine are also the people of this country. And we need to be on the rise; institutions need to be on the rise of what people ask us and we need to be able to listen, we need to know how to listen and we also need to know how to interpret the data that we have and that, for example, make available to us, as is the case with the same question that lasted until 2019 by the CEO, some results that ask us all, without exception, and especially those that seek the solution to the conflict, and I do not refer only to independent groups. Data show that, on the line of repression, a large majority of citizens, almost 70_per_cent, consider that the oppression and exile of Catalan policies is unfair, and that a 64_per_cent considers that individual and collective freedoms and fundamental rights in Catalonia have been reduced these two years later. And it's June data, before this unjust sentence is known, given that we have to think about it, and we also have to react. And if we didn't have enough of this data we had, then we also have the data from the GESOP, which tells us that 86_percent of Catalan voters and 70_percent of Spanish voters see the only way out of the political conflict that exists between Catalonia and Spain is through the dialog. And yet, and to make it clear that the majority of this country's citizens are demanding a dialogue, they are calling for a political solution to what is a political conflict, they are calling for a return to politics to what is a political conflict and forsaking the judicialization of it, despite this, there are those who still today are not even able to make the gesture of clearing the phone. But unfortunately we are aware that in this sense – in this sense – Spanish politics is probably more influenced by a history of a colonial empire evil and that this is completely incompetent with the exercise of the dialect..., it is more, I would say that it is entirely incompetent with the will of the dialect, perhaps in the face of the fact that the empires do not make concessions but impose conditions. In fact, we can see this mentality in Spain's inability to reach agreements to form coalition governments. Actually, today this hasn't happened in the Spanish State. The Kingdom of Spain, in fact, today is the only great European country that has never had a coalition government in modern times. And this also puts into evidence the absolute flaws of the Spanish political system. And what we have to do, the duty that we have with the people of our country is precisely to put in place a replete, to put in value the Catalan political system, is to say, our willingness to seek dialogue, to find consensus and to reach agreements. And this is the value of Catalan politics. In fact, in these last days of the judgment we have seen how from the international press it is also placed in replenishment this weakness and this incompetence of the Kingdom of Spain in the solution of the political conflict existing with Catalonia. And while the European institutions keep a shameless silence on the excuse of a bad payer that is an internal conflict, while the working group of the United Nations has criticized it, it is also certain that every time more politicians and European leaders raise their voice in favor of our cause; policies of different countries and different ideological families. Let me cite cases such as that of Tiago Barbosa or that of the socialist Ana Gomes, two policies in this Portuguese case that claim that Madrid is killing democracy. And if we follow with examples of European socialists from another country, I also quote the words of the Slovenian MEP and former President of the Parliament of Slovenia, when he says that he regrets "the drastic conclusion of the political process, this decision will certainly not lead to a solution to the Catalan question; I believe that the Court of the European Union and the Human Rights will decide against it, or other Members who have written to the Danish press that political conflicts cannot or cannot be resolved by means of violence against voters or political imprisonment, as the Spanish State has done. And they will surely remember a group of French senators who signed for the freedom of prisoners and political prisoners, of them of the French Socialist Party. Or the Parliament of Flanders. Perhaps that's why – perhaps that's why – news like today, of this shutdown of the opening of the three nine delegations of the Government of Catalonia in this case to Mexico, Argentina or Tunisia, because while some are deaf, they also want us mute. But they won't be able to, they won't be able to shut us up or keep us quiet, and the Government of Catalonia will continue to do its job, and that Government will continue to complete its commitments. We are clear: we want to move forward and we want to talk. We have not raised ourselves, as the government, from the table of the dialect, and we demand this necessary dialog between the Spanish Government and the Catalan Government; a dialog that passes inexcusably because in this table representing the two governments there may be the two presidents, the president of the Government of the Spanish State and the president of the Catalan Government. Therefore, we claim that this dialog table is a table encapsulated by the two presidents. I'm sure, Mr. Pujol, that also, if you ask him two questions, I would share with my..., about the following facts. Would you agree that a thorough review of the relations between Catalonia and Spain in the European marc should be carried out? And if I ask him whether he would agree with the conviction that the citizens of Catalonia should decide freely on any proposal for a substantial change in relations between Catalonia and Spain, agreed between the Catalan and Spanish institutions, through a reference in which a clear question is raised, which must be answered unequivocally accepting or rejecting the programme under consultation, or if I ask him..., these two points that I have just raised, I will tell him one thing: these points I have not written to them; these points are what is literally written in the PCS electoral programme to the Parliament of Catalonia in 2012. And let me also recall President Torra's words in the general policy debate, to end: President Sánchez told President Torra, he acknowledged, at the first meeting he held in Moncloa, that there was a political conflict that could only be solved for political life. That's why they tried to talk and Pedralbes got to talk about legal security without mentioning the Constitution. That's why a dialog exploration commission was set up. You see, the word we repeat most from the Government of Catalonia: dialog, dialog and dialog. And, therefore, we ask that, once and for all, on the part of the Spanish State, there be those who respond to the other side and offer this dialog so necessary to resolve politically what is a political conflict between the Spanish State and Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.274.0	Thank you, Counselor. I understand that there is no reply from the honourable Member. [[Asking the Government about lost opportunities for business fabric]] [[300-00206/12]] Therefore, we turn to the agenda item, which is the question to the Government about the lost opportunities to the business fabric, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word the deputy José María Cano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.275.0	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will try to return the debate to the 21st century. « Counselor, this inquiry revolves around something that worries us and much, and are the opportunities lost by the business fabric throughout all these years of process. Today, Madam Councillor, I am going to talk to you about one of the great consensus – this yes – of Catalan society, I think the biggest, and it is that the process has not benefited Catalonia at all; it does the opposite: it is causing us to lose great opportunities for social improvement and economic improvement. Madam Councillor, today I want to talk to you about everything that macroeconomic data does not present to us clearly, but in time, if we do not put remedies, they will eventually appear. I want to talk to you about the social and economic cost of the opportunities we are missing and that other territories, both from Spain and the rest of the world, are licitly taking advantage of. "Consellera, you know that we are in the midst of economic slowdown, which may be the foreground of an economic recession. There are many challenges and threats facing the Spanish economy, and unfortunately the biggest weakness of the Catalan economy right now is your government, it is you. And as much as some of the groups in this chamber try to look elsewhere at the evidence, one of the basic pillars of a prosperous economy is a stable political and legislative ecosystem. In democracy, government cannot be the main problem for its fellow citizens, it must not go against its own interests. In democracy there is no threatening government willing to jump over the laws. Because, in addition to breaking society, it generates legal insecurity and instability, which is one of the worst threats the economy has. Another pillar of good governance, from an economic point of view, is that it takes care of its markets. A good government of the Generalitat must represent all Catalans, not only in half, and must not devote itself to either saying falsehoods, nor to intoxicating, nor to disrespecting citizens; it must neither slander them nor call them the facades, nor Francoists, nor anti-democratic, nor repressive, simply by not commulgating with its ideas of the nineteenth century. And on the other hand, a good government cannot devote itself exclusively to a single issue, as you do, something recognized by the president himself: he and all those he chooses have a 99_per_cent dedication to the process. I assure you, "I would advise you that I and my colleagues would love to discuss globalisation, digitisation, robotics or innovation with you, but unfortunately this Government is not prepared for all this; you are at an earlier stage. They are dedicated to a single topic, causing a loss of opportunities along the way, because devoting themselves exclusively to the process implies not dedicating themselves to improving health, not dedicating themselves to improving education, neither the economy, nor infrastructure. And it is clear that not respecting the legal order, not respecting your fellow citizens and devoting yourself exclusively to dividing it does not benefit neither society nor the Catalan economy. And yet they have surprised us again: when we thought we could not go to worse, they take one more step. They are now a radical government, which goes by the hands of the radicals. It is a government of the « presseu, presseu. It is clear that in a democratic country public offices will not cut roads in their official car. Why? Because they are responsible people and know that cutting roads means preventing workers from reaching their jobs, it means preventing citizens from making their normal lives – that they can go to the doctor, take the children to school – it means preventing goods from reaching their destination, which causes closures of production plants that involve tens of millions of losses, as you well know, and endanger jobs. "Counsellor, I would like to know your opinion on these four characteristics of the Government that you represent, and I say this to you sincerely, in the hope that you do not agree with all this. And these four characteristics are joined by two other traditional characteristics of the governments of the Generalitat, such as corruption – which, no matter how much they try, will not silence us and we will always denounce their 3 percent friends – and mismanagement. Just think that they have generated 80,000_millions of public debt puts our hairs at the top. And it's all about what the government has become: waste, corruption, mismanagement, selfishness and the loss of opportunity. Let's give some examples, all of common sense. They make Catalans, self-employed people and businesses lose opportunities, neglecting our main customer. And what is our main client? Well, we ourselves, Spain. Look, Catalonia buys the world to sell it to the rest of Spain. The reality is that the Catalan economy is specialized in domestic sales: more than 35_percent of production we sell within our borders. And we have a surplus of 18,000_million_euros, which is the one that compensates for our negative trade balance with the foreigner. Therefore, those who are despised by their statements and actions are the ones who allow us to have a positive trade balance. Without them, things would be bad for us. And you, to reward them, want to raise a frontier for them in the middle of the 21st century. I suppose you already know him, but we sell more to Aragon than to France or Germany; we sell more to the Valencian Community than to Italy; we sell more to Castile and León than to all the United States. Does the Commissioner really think that they are taking care of this market? Are you really helping the autonomous and Catalan companies in their commercial relations with the rest of Spain? And from the point of view of another of our main sources of wealth, tourism, I would like to ask you, "counsellor: how many tourists and visitors from the rest of Spain have decided not to visit us in the face of their dismay? I give you a data: in October the decrease of the visits to Catalonia of the rest of Spain was 10_per_cent. And every time they are less compatriots and every time our compatriots stay less days in Catalonia. Our elders do not want to come either: the reserves of the Imserso with destination to Catalonia have been reduced by 40_per_cent, and they will have to redistribute the places in order to cover them. The social reality is that a lot of people don't want to come and a lot of people want to go, running away from you. And it's that the fellow citizens who visit us come to be calm and, if they can, to have a good time; they don't want to see containers burning, they don't want to see the roads cut off, they don't want to see beaches with crosses, and they don't want to let go of their insolidary political shambles of the "Spain us steals. How many opportunities have been missed, "counsellor? Let's move on to another sector: industry. The industry in our autonomous community has a_weight of almost 21_per_cent of GDP. And only the car-related industry already represents 10_per_cent of GDP; a car industry that has on the table great challenges: Brexit, tariffs for the trade war between China and the United States, electrification of vehicles, zero emissions, economic slowdown... And in Catalonia they add another ballast: you. And it has been the managers of the multinationals of the automotive industry who have dared to raise their voice these days in the face of so much foolishness, to raise their voice before their brilliant idea of cutting the roads to prevent supplies from reaching their plants, paralyzing production and causing tens of millions of euros of losses. And let me say, "Counsellor: I told you to raise your voice, because the decisions were already being made from the One of October. From that day on, they had to start taking action and empowering their managers to take control in defense of their companies. And that is why, Madam Councillor, you do not want to meet with yourselves in Germany; you have already had enough meetings with your managers after the chaos you generated from 1 October. And that is loss of opportunity: it involves rethinking their investment decisions, and they value choosing to modernize the plants they have in other parts of Spain, looking for suppliers outside Catalonia, installing their new plants outside Catalonia... And all these possible decisions, "consellera, are loss of opportunity. It means reducing job creation. And that in the face of a labour market that doesn't go through a good time either. We maintain a two-digit unemployment, very similar to the rest of Spain. This year more than five thousand workers have already been affected by employment regulation files, a 51_per_cent more than in 2018. Causes of dismissal have been fired in the courts. In the course of the year we have held more than a thousand_five hundred contests of creditors. And according to the Labour Force Survey, the Catalan industry destroyed more than fifteen_ thousand jobs between September 2018 and September 2019. And the process does not add up, « advise – does not add up. Going by the hand of radicals cutting roads, boycotting communications, talking bad about our country, wasting money without a budget, dedicating itself exclusively to raising a border in the middle of the 21st century, does not add up. And you know one thing, "counsellor? There are many who cannot raise their voices as the leaders of the big multinationals do. 95_per_cent of the Catalan business fabric is made up of self-employed and small businesses, and they can't raise their voice while they see the containers burning at the door of their shops, while they see how their workers can't reach their jobs or how they lower sales in their stores or don't enter customers in their bars and restaurants. For all of them, "counsellor, this loss of opportunity implies not being able to reach the end of the month. That is why, 'counsellor, with this question I intend to give us his vision of all these opportunities lost by the business fabric and, above all, what he is going to do about it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.276.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, Maria Àngels Chacón, Business and Knowledge Advisor, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.277.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Counselors, counselor, deputy... well, continue the film that you insist on reproducing. It is very ironic, indeed, that Citizens speak of lost opportunities, when they are the first to escape a catastrophic discourse of the Catalan economy. Are we talking about lost opportunities in the economy? You're a bad prescriber of the country's economy, you only know how to read it in denial. They are specialists to sow doubts about the Catalan product texture. Are you sure you want the Catalan economy to progress? Or would they like it better? So they'll always find me in the front, dedicated to selling the acts of this country, for a lot of black speeches that Ciutadans does. And they'll always find me explaining Catalonia in favor. What makes us lose opportunities is the economic repression that we have been living in Catalonia for some time, too, and we have some examples: the royal decree of 6 October, which incites the transfer of their social; a chronic fiscal deficit; the lack of investment in infrastructure; the major energy costs that we have; the level, the low level of execution of assumptions... Miri, make it clear, Mr. MP, that what scares investors are these elements that have just emerged. When an investor group wants to materialize a project, it asks as are the infrastructures, it is informed about the energy costs, it is interested in the academic formation of the citizens of the region, among many other things. I don't even want to think about whether you are in front of the Catalonia Trade and Investment: there would be an entry door and a exit door, because you wouldn't want to, you wouldn't have any intention of holding the investors. All in all, if you're on our side complaining about what I'm complaining about, we'd do better. I will say this in another way: if you have been involved in the governance of Spain because of the investments in rolling stock, the Mediterranean Corridor and a better presuppositional execution, we are very different. In the face of the catastrophic speeches that have just emerged from us, I will give you figures, because I see that, as far as we go, they repeat, they do not remain, they do not just remain, these figures. Miri, in Catalonia, GDP growth has been, this year 2018 – last year – from the Spanish and Eurozone states. The second quarter– these are data from this year's Catalan economy– grew an annual 2_per_cent, higher than the eurozone's conjunction, equal to that of the Spanish state's conjunction. The Catalan economy has an industrial base that exceeds – you said – the 20_per_cent and completes the demands made for the European Union. Industrial production grew by 0.8_per_cent last year. Industry's volume of business grew by 3.4_per_cent. The growth of industrial investment in 2018_has been 9.6_per_cent. Industry's occupation grew by 6.1_per_cent. More ciphers in positu. Employment in high-tech sectors increased in 2018 by 6.6 per year. Catalonia's business base is expanding. According to the Central Director of Entrepreneurship, INE Directorate – National Institute of Statistics, these are not data we invent –, the 1st generation of 2018 the number of entrepreneurs with its Catalonia grew in 9,385 enterprises, went from 608,981 to 618,366, a 1.5_per_cent more. Catalonia concentrates the largest number of companies with its own Spanish State, with 18.5_per_cent, followed by the Madrid community; I repeat: Catalonia concentrates the largest number of companies with its own Spanish State, with 18.5_per_cent of the total. The net creation of companies this 2018_has been 15,699. The first semester of this 2019 has created 10,243 mercantile companies, a 3,3_per_cent more than the same period of the year 2018. In cumulative terms, the first half of 2019 has dissolved 1,162 businesses, a 2.8_per_cent less than the previous year. Catalan exports grew by 1.1_per_cent compared to 2017, a record per eighth year. Catalonia leads exports to the conjunct of the Spanish State, a 25.1_percent of total exports. In 2019, from generation to September, this year, Catalan exports grow by 2.9_per_cent compared to the same period in 2018. Catalonia leads the number of regular exporting companies in the whole of Spain, with a 33,3_per_cent. In total, we have 8,632 foreign companies established in Catalonia; it means an increase of 22_per_cent compared to 2016. More than a thousand companies of these are tech companies. Catalonia has captured 23,000_million euros in the last five years, 45_percent more than in the previous period. Catalonia leads the capacity of foreign industrial investment; this means production plants and work places, foreign industrial investment, with 30.3_percent of the total. Catalonia the year 2018 was the third region in Western Europe in the name of jobs created for investment projects, and has surpassed territories such as Île-de-France or Rhineland-Westphalia, which has only been surpassed for the south-east of England and Ireland. We remember investment projects managed by Action. The expenditure on research and development in Catalonia increased by 5.6. The applications of European patent applicants double the applications to the Spanish State. Catalonia brings a 2.7_per_cent of European innovation and represents only a 0.5_per_cent of the population. Catalunya leads the Horizon 2020 fundraiser of the Spanish State. Catalonia is the region of Europe that attracts more innovation resources in this sense. We are leaders in international conventions. And the increase in the number of tourists... You said to us: "The number of tourists has been reduced by what it does to tourists from the Spanish State. Explain the whole film, because it has remained more than compensated for the arrival of foreign tourists, which has increased in this first period, in this first semester..., no, until August, a 0.6_per_cent. The average expenditure – and this is important – has increased by 6.6_per_cent. We don't care as much about the names of tourists as the resources they leave to our economy. Why did I recite this whole set of ciphers? So to make up for a relationship, to make up for a relationship that doesn't rely on reality, but on speeches, like I said, catastrophes. He was talking about the weakness of the Catalan government. Let's talk about the weakness of the Spanish government, huh? In these three elections we're already holding? Looking for businesses that want to invest is a competitive ecosystem, and here in Catalonia they find it. Did you talk to me about language, you, that all day long you're talking about commandos and thumpers? In this language to which you refer, you will not have heard me speak. Talk about debates about digitization and internationalization. Welcome. I was very pleased that when we presented, for example, the plans for internationalization or the barriers, the removal of barriers to internationalization, had also made the contributions, we had been told. They'll find me every day they want to talk about these issues. He also talks to us about the automotive industry and that they didn't want us to. Miri, I'm talking to Volkswagen, I'm talking to SEAT, I'm talking to Nissan, every week, and if we want to get together, we don't have a problem. On the basis that they didn't return us? First, there is no need to go there now; but we have regular discussion. If I want to tell him every time we cheat, we talk, or we get together. Do not say these things that are certainly not, because what they are really contributing to sowing chaos. They also say that all the evil that is generated by the economy goes through the process. In the second intervention, in a short time, in the second reply, I will explain to you that it really harms the Catalan economy and I would like to find them for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.278.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply has the word the deputy José María Cano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.279.0	Thank you, Vice President. Look, "Counsellor, I was talking to you about what you bring to the Catalan economy. That the Catalan economy is strong, that it is dynamic, I know; but what do you bring to the economy? Because listening to yours, it seems to me that in the end they're going to sell me that the process is going to be studied in Oxford and Harvard as one of the best ideologies to go up and make an economy prosperous. « Counsellor, I want to move you two ideas and a reflection. The first, as in the tale, tell him that the king is naked. "Conseller, you are surrounded by directors, directors, secretaries, secretaries, and your fellow Members, the vast majority of them with yellow ties and praising her. And when he goes to some acts he tends to surround himself with palm trees that tell him how good things do and how good it is an ideology of the nineteenth century that intends to raise a border between fellow citizens. But the real world isn't like that. The real world is not that of the "counseling" nor that of the great events. Of the real world are also all those autonomous and small enterprises to which you harm with your actions and your statements, those who know what it is hard to lift the blind because they have never lived from subsidies, nor from the Administration, nor from politics; those who struggle to reach the end of the month; those who suffer or have a dependent family member; those who have a problem of conciliation when they cannot take the children to school because they have cut off a road; those transport professionals who have been caught in their roadblocks; all those who are unemployed and who are affected by the loss of opportunities. Think about how they feel when we run out of the European Medicines Agency or when someone opts for another location of their production plants, in the face of instability and legal insecurity. That is why I advise you, when you are surrounded by your bond group and palm trees, to descend to Earth and think of all these citizens. Think that if the president of a multinational is worried about his exploitation account before the roadblock, imagine how are all those families they are struggling to reach at the end of the month. Note that more than half of Catalan families have difficulty reaching the end of the month. Think that 87_per_cent of the contracts signed each year are temporary, it's precarious work. And think that the poverty rate at work is more than 12_per_cent; having a job is no longer a guarantee of having a decent life. Think, in short, that it is very likely, as I told you, that the king is naked. And the other idea I wanted to convey to you is that you just want to look at the world and turn your back on your country, on Spain, but that's not reciprocal; the world doesn't belong to you. Look, the world doesn't look at us, but the rest of Spain does. The world is too big to worry about nationalist tales. Because, as much as you're trying to buy wills abroad, it's been in vain, a total waste, a party we paid everyone to see Mr. Bosch in Washington giving a loud show, picked up only on TV3. But there are those who look at us. Those who look at them are our fellow citizens, those who live in Catalonia and those who live in the rest of Spain, that is, those who are emotionally, socially and economically united. And not only do they look at them: we are also concerned and suffer their folly, their roadblocks, their boycotts, their lists of good and bad Catalans, their attempts to take away a passport from us, to tell us what it is to be a good Catalan... And from the world itself those who look at us are those who have interests in Catalonia, and look at us with concern, and prepared for whether they have to make decisions; decisions that for them are just numbers, numbers of their exploitation account; an exploitation account that you have damaged with their occurrences and their roadblocks. And keep in mind that for us and for the rest it is bread and prosperity. Don't forget that, ma'am. The other day, in his appearance at the Commission of Enterprise, he saw with sadness how his party and government colleagues laughed at the interventions and questions that my partner and company spokesman asked him; and they were done with good judgment, from the knowledge, from the experience. Well, that's a clear picture of what's going on in Catalonia. People like the thirty-six deputies who have Citizens, people who have taken a step forward to serve their fellow citizens, people with training – lawyers, economists, doctors – who know what it is to work outside of politics and administration, and who are faced with a pre-Torian guard of fervent followers of the process, capable of harming and deceiving Catalans to satisfy their wishes. Look, "Counsellor, we will continue to work for all Catalans, for whom you do not see too, and we will continue to denounce all their barbarities. We defend and propose an alternative so that we can live in a prosperous Catalonia, free of nationalism, within a reformed Spain and a strong Europe. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.280.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the reply has the word "Conseller of Enterprise and Knowledge", Ms. Maria Àngels Chacón.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.281.0	Mr. Vice President... deputy, miri, first of all, to you. Talk about all of you in that appearance. If I've never disrespected someone or not, I'm not right, I'm asking you to tell me, because I don't think that's true. Talk about how among your fellow Members there are people who have lived out of politics. Between our groups too, and it serves too. I've been in the private sector for many years, I know what it takes to work, I know what autonomies are, I know what day-to-day economics is, and I know perfectly well that our economy is integrated into more than 95_per_cent for small and medium-sized enterprises. This is why we are managing at the strategic level of the productive economy. I'm talking about the place. Yeah, yeah, let's wear a groceries. We wear a dark place because the things that happen are really very hard, and we have all the right to carry a dark place. And so, we'll bring him, while this situation of violation of rights and freedoms is not reversed. [[Greetings.]] And this does not incapacitate us to manage excellently what our productive economy must be. There's nothing to see. I don't mean to associate that we're just worried about the dark place. What we can't do is act as if we don't pass anything at the level of democratic rights violation. Look, I'm asking for them too... I was talking to me... listen, there's a lot of reptes in the day-to-day. Above all, we are concerned about this new global context that you think: how our businesses, our own names, our small businesses adapt – because the big ones already do – to this economy of industry 4.0. Before yesterday we were launching the Proaction program. Do you know what this program is? So they are coupons so that small businesses..., help them with awareness and diagnosis: how can they integrate all these new technologies, which for many of them are alien – blockchain, artificial intelligence, etc. – into their strategy. Precisely thinking of day-to-day people who have neither the resources nor the right staff to define strategies, this is why we are thinking and acting at macro and micro level. We already know that your field of view is very limited to one question: to preserve the unit of Spain, at any price. Try to expand the focus a little, please. We live, you said, in a global context. We'll have to think of how competitive we are in this global context. We are pushing, as I said, many campaigns of action on this day and day of our business fabric. I ask you: can we agree to defend the Catalan productive economy? Do you prefer to continue talking about a catastrophic speech? Will they accompany us to claim that the Mediterranean Corridor is fired forward, once and for all? Will they help us? Will they be next door? Will they denounce Catalonia's chronic fiscal deficit with us? Will they be at the expense of the interests of the Catalan economy to claim the autonomous management of ports and airports? This would also help our country's competitiveness. Miri, you have to choose. Do they really want to bet on the progress of our productive economy or do they want to continue to be installed in this catastrophic, lost, and runaway speech? Miri, for the run, for the lost, of the deputies who have their party at the Spanish Congress. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.282.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about full-time education]] [[300-00204/12]] The agenda item is the Government's inquiry into full-time education. To present it, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Bernat Sole.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.283.0	Well, very late. Counsellor, Vice-President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. Well, tell us the Save the Children report, presented a few days ago to Parliament itself, tell us the following: "Educational spaces from zero to three years can serve as places of integration for the different needs of families and infants, because they are often the first personal contact you have with them. And he also tells us the following: « In Catalonia, some of these centres, both schools in Bressol and family spaces, begin to incorporate the educational perspective into components of the spheres of social services and health. This helps to treat the needs of families in an integral way, incorporating, for example, elements that facilitate the attraction of families at risk. And to make it possible, he proposes four elements: firstly, coordination at the planning and working level in the network of all the educational agents of a municipality or territory; joint programmes and projects with all the actors that form part of the educational offer of a municipality; collaboration with other services, collaboration between the school, collaboration between the entities that provide extra-curricular services, between the sports entities, between the same joint, and, finally, physical integrations of services in the same place, that is, those services that are offered in a place to replant them to integrate them, for example, into the school. It's time that the present we have today sets us up and every time with more intensity. The learning, today, is neither unique nor unidirectional; the learning today is conceived in the network, it needs to be conceived in the network. Spaces, times are intertwined; we don't have limited space, we don't have limited time, but they all intertwine and interrelate. In fact, education does not end much less when the lectural schedule ends; our infants are educated further beyond the school and, in fact, at any time and any space is a source of entry of contents. In fact, we always educate, we educate in every way, and not only in content; we educate in emotions, we educate in self-esteem, we educate in personal claims, etcetera, etcetera. And, finally, education did not end at a certain age, but education had to be conceived long enough. Learn; learn to be; learn to live; learn to feel; learn to share; learn individually and learn as a team; learn from what surrounds us; learn from ourselves; learn from others or learn from those who are after; learn from those who are interested or learn to learn to learn. These are the very many dimensions that a self-learning process can have, in a world every time more globalized, in a world every time more interconnected. Another document, in this case, a document prepared for the Jaume Bofill Foundation and the Federation of Pedagogical Renewal Movements. He talks about the educational ecosystems and tells us that the educational ecosystems are those environments of learning connected in and out of the school centre, with the aim of uniting formal and non-formal elements, school and community elements, and the various agents with different cultures. And it reminds us that no educational agent, neither the schools nor their professionals, who have much to do with it, but not exclusively, can solve these educational challenges alone today. Let's take an example: Tuesday, sixteen years. It takes you to the morning sets to get to the institute eight. It takes six hours and a half to follow in class; it gets longer and it doesn't always feel fully motivated; it costs him to identify his interests in what they explain to him. In fact, it's Tuesdays, and the Tuesdays don't touch coats; if they were different they wouldn't touch it for a while, but they would touch two of them, give them to the gymnasiums of the institute with some companies and some cysts, and to the six of late to the pavilion with some other companies and some other cysts. With a single space and coordinating the school and the educational offer, probably on Tuesday and his companions would practice a_only once with the same companies and probably many of the companies that beyond the school don't usually practice any sports. This is one of many examples that we could put into this full - time educational look. A full-time educational look that raises situations such as, for example, open patis during the week-end, beyond the lectural schedule; libraries that open in the morning for school and that open in the late hours for the bar; shared sport pavilions for the same school, for educational centres or for users of the municipality; kitchens and waiters that are used, for example, for middle school pupils and for cooking workshops, for example, for young migrants only without family references at the late hour; integrated music schools within the same educational centre, so no; accompanying from school and connecting them with extracurricular activities. And here's a little more experience. Experiences that many of the assemblies in this country are already putting into practice; in fact, Alliance 360 is one of the movements that brings together a good part of these assemblies and a good part of these experiences. But what's all this for, really? We need to determine which are the objectives that we want to achieve with this model of full-time education. A first objective: the fight against school segregation. If we focus education precisely on this 360 look, it is precisely because everyone can have access with the same conditions to extracurricular activities. It is obvious that not all students make the same educational offer beyond school hours and, therefore, we have to fight because this segregation disappears every time. In fact, we must avoid repeating these social realities, that the same families take their children to the same extra-school activities they attended when they were young; we must break these stereotypes. Another objective: the improvement of personal development. Getting educational factors beyond the education center is empowering students' diversity, empowering their interests, empowering their skills, from a multi-disciplinary knowledge model, and, above all, generating personal motivation. Another objective: continuity in an educational project. When he goes to a school, he can't be cut at four o'clock and half when the student leaves the school. If a student has arrived in school sad for a certain family situation, he is sad at four and a half; those activities that continue his extra-school activity must be familiar with this situation. Therefore, we need an interrelationship between all those agents involved in the education of the infant. The mid-span, for example. What you don't feel is having a student at a school and that the media is planting a completely different project from what's in that school. And that's not what I'm saying because it's not like that; in so many schools the middle space is integrated into the same school education project. Another essential element, an essential objective: that society, that families identify the school not only as that space where they transmit knowledge, where their children go to education, but as that point of finding where things happen, where things happen at the social level, where things happen at the cultural level, at the level of formation, etcetera, etcetera. Nine opportunities. The school must not fail to be visited when we finish the school stage. Today the learning has to be set not from zero to twenty, but from zero to all life and, therefore, the school can be this source of entry of knowledge and continuing training. And, finally, another objective: the optimization of equipment. There are many municipalities that cannot have an equipment room, for example, a school floor and another school floor; the easiest is to agree on the two administrations and they are shared. What do we need to do about it? First of all, connect reading time with non-reading time. At these times the times in many educational centers respond to a logical teaching based on materials; what we ask is a certain flexibility in these times so that those extra-school options can be integrated into the center's education project. More items to connect: the accompanying. Many times those children who stop doing extra-curricular activities are because when they leave school they are alone and no one accompanies them to these extra-curricular activities; therefore, we need to make it possible that this is a reality. And, finally, as I said – I was running out of time – coordination between administrations. We know it's done, we know the department has reached agreements with municipalities to pull equipment forward. From the parliamentary group that I represent, I transmit this to you, counselor, I transmit to you this will, this willingness to agree, and that the equipment and everything that refers to the education of our infants, whether as the Generality's title or as the municipal title, are fully coordinated. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.284.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question has now the word the education counselor, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.285.0	Thank you, Vice President. MPs, MPs. Questioning Member, you have based your approach on two fundamental elements: first, to understand education as a Community fact. Education is no longer exclusively an academic fact, as it had traditionally been, nor a school fact, as it had evolved from the pedagogical renewal of the late decades of the 20th century; today education is a community fact. And the second element that you have also focused on is this Community fact that is education can only develop correctly from the co-responsibility. Of the co-responsibility with agents, but basically of the co-responsibility between the educational authority, which in our home is the Department of Education of the Government of the Generality, and the local world. And you've also set some targets. I won't have time to comment on them all. I'll focus on three. First, the fight against segregation and the bet on inclusiveness, also in that which is community – also in that which is community. Secondly, a coherent educational project in the same territory is sufficient; this can be in a city, a barri, in cities with a concrete name, the same city, and in some places, territories wider than a city, and somewhere else, the region. Fi. I, for example, visited last week a novel experience that is an integrated rural school area, in which a traditional ZER, the ZER Montsant - Serra de Prades, is integrated, the first ZER that existed in Catalonia, with a new institute-school, the institute-school Montsant. So far, there has been no experience of this type, and in which we have integrated into this ZERI, into this integrated rural school area, also those assemblies that do not have ZER school, but that bring students to ZER institute-school, because the co-responsibility we have to offer also to all those assemblies that provide students at these centers. To say that, in this case, this experimental novelty is working very well from the ZER Montsant - Serra de Prades. And this can only be done, as I said, because there is a coherent education project, and this coherent education project is functional. And thirdly, the optimization of resources and equipment. And we fifteen years ago, in our first stage in the Department of Education, we just created, only to arrive, the municipal offices of schooling, which was the first obvious sign that there were elements of education that, without corresponding to the local world, would not work. And then, from the National Pact for Education, we established this concept of co-responsibility, which later appeared already legally to the LEC. One of the things we did fifteen years ago was also the creation of the educational plans around it, an initiative of cooperation between the Department of Education and the municipal world that had as its objective the success of the studentship, and at that time, with special attention to the most fragile and vulnerable social sectors. As soon as the education plans were no longer a priority of the department, and now they are again, at these times we have 128 educational plans in one hundred and nine municipalities, involving almost 1,300 centres and more than 400,000 pupils, and covering 98.58_percent of the centres of high complexity, leaving the centres dependent on the Barcelona Education Consortium to the band, because they have a different community reality; therefore, they provide almost all the centres of high complexity. The assessment that we can make of it, as well as the assumptions that have been made about the educational plans around it, is very positive, because they have helped to correct the negative correlation between the percentage of graduates of an educational center and the foreign alumni, and have reduced the difference between the middle of the graduates of the high complexity centers and the middle of the graduates of all Catalonia. Therefore, this first objective of the education plans was positive. But, in addition, there have been other additions. In the same way, you were looking at the Education 360 program, initially driven by the Barcelona City Council, which is a program that has similar objectives, and in which the department collaborates, and which, let's say, finally establishes a unique network of collaboration between the local world and the Department of Education. For this reason, we have promoted in this course a new step towards the educational plans of around, which in our view the educational plans of around zero-twentieth, so that the initial plans do not collide with the children's lars and do not collide with the post-compulsory teachings of professional character or special rule character. And this is a new tool to boost this cooperative education model and we believe that, in addition, it will serve to achieve those goals that you were discussing. The first five municipalities where we have implemented these zero-twenty educational plans, which we could say is the second provided by the educational plans around or the resituation of the educational plans around the social and economic reality of today, are the municipalities of Esplugues de Llobregat, the Hospital de Llobregat, Ripoll, Sant Vicenç dels Horts and Tàrrega. We are already working with other gatherings, like now Cornellà, for the course we came to make polite plans around, with a premise that would double the current reversal in these aspects. To the educational plans around them, which have this community perspective, it is necessary to add other aspects that you commented and which also serve for community work and the struggle against segregation. For example, the times. Often the timetables are analysed only from the perspective of work or from the perspective of the reconciliation of certain family realities, but the timetables can also be a movement of segregation, they can also be: to close the school at certain hours or from certain hours it can make that student who does not have an open educational space does not have an educational work space is once lost, while that other student who has this space at home can use it. And that's segregating, for example. The timetables must also take into account the space of middia, they must take into account the educational needs of the student. To this student that you said, Martí, who leaves home at seven o'clock in the morning and up there at five o'clock in the afternoon, we must add another thing – Martí, who can be from the Valley of Lord perfectly, because the students of the Valley of Lord who make three and a quarter to Solsona make these times. So on Tuesday, between the seven and six-quarters won't eat hot. And this is also a motive for segregation; territorial, in this case, but it is also an important segregation. Because Marti is growing intellectually, neuronally, and physically. And we have a student who thinks they're stretching it, because he's got a lot of compact class hours, and he doesn't eat hot. And that, I insist, is a negative effect on him as a person in development, but he has a burden of territorial segregation, obviously. And we cannot allow it, neither segregation by gender, nor segregation by socioeconomic reality, nor segregation by family environment, nor segregation by technology at home, nor segregation by territory. There is also another very important element, which is space. For a song, I'm the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's Obviously, community work is not the same as in school, and it is not the same if the country is open only in school hours, or is open in community hours, or is open only in lectual days, or is open all year. This spatial optimization is, as you said, the library – it can't be that we have a school library in a municipality that doesn't have a public library and doesn't make the school library public; it's stupid – or it's sports tracks, or it's sports... And let's go back to the beginning: we can only get to an optimization of spaces and a few correct times from what you pointed out: to hear education as a community element and to hear its development from the co-responsibility between the educational authorities and the local world. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.286.0	Thank you, Counselor. I don't know if you've planned a reply, Mr. Congressman? [[Pause.]] Okay. [[Asking the Government about rural depopulation]] [[300-00205/12]] We would therefore move to the new agenda, which is the question to the Government on rural depopulation, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. It has the words of Congresswoman Irene Fornós to expose her.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.287.0	Thank you, Vice President. Councillor, Councillor, Members and Members, I have been giving many times how I could face this question about the depopulation of the rural world, and it is the truth that I believe that every time I have appeared back from this Faristol has been one of my demands and I have not spoken on many occasions about issues related to the rural world. And it is that rural depopulation ends up with a lot of other policies due or not due, and that all Members and Members also have our responsibility. This question I am obviously addressing today to Councilwoman Jordan, Counsellor of the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, who leads this area and who has the maximum skills. But today I believe, and I believe that I am doing it once more, that it is also necessary to ask all of you to attend so that you also take into account in all the commissions in which you participate, in all the policies that you push and work in the different areas in which you are, how they may end up affecting already positively or negatively the depopulation of the rural world of our country. This, as has been said so many times, is a cross-cutting issue, and it cannot only be that of those who are part of the Committee on Agriculture, which, moreover, most of them are certainly Members of Parliament from the territories and people of the rural world. And this shouldn't be the conception. If that's the case, I think we're all very wrong. There is no urban world in the wrong rural world, and there are many, many things going on in the urban world, and the rural world is active. We are what we ate, I also said in another intervention, and most of the products that we end up feeding them provide the rural world – and as rural people are, they will certainly be better – but also many other resources that we need, such as water, renewable energies that we end up in rural areas many times. In short, to defend the rural world and fight against depopulation is to fight for the model of country that we all want: a balanced country, where not everyone can live in the urban world, which is not sustainable, and where we can equip the rural world with resources and resources. I would like to focus my intervention on that depopulation which is more familiar and viscuous, the depopulation which we suffer in the Lands of the Ebre, without undermining any of the areas of the country which also suffer, such as the Pyrenees or other counties of Catalonia, and which certainly many of the present also know, as is the case, in this case, of the deputy and mayor of Vilanova de l'Aguda, Montserrat Fornells, mayor of a municipality per five urban clusters, for five towns, and which do not reach 199 inhabitants, and which, surely, as I say, in the first person I saw, and the patiu, and from there I want to make a recognizance for the task of survival that one day will surely return the other to combat it. Returning to the Lands of the Hebrews, according to the Idescat, the people of Catalonia and the Lands of the Hebrews seemed to follow different paths: the Lands of the Hebrews six years ago we lost the population; while the rate of population growth in Catalonia is positive, that of the Lands of the Hebrews is negative. As is customary, the Lands of the Ebre, as it also happens in other parts of the country, lose the democratic respect to the conjunction of Catalonia. The region of the Upper Earth is the region that most people lose as much of the regions of the Ebro as of the whole country. From the beginning of the century, he suffered a loss of 5.79_per_cent. But, as we have said, there are also other areas of the country that follow the list, such as the Lleidatan comarques of the Alt Urgell, the Alta Ribagorça, the Garrigues, the Noguera, the Pallars Sobirá, the Ripollès or, to the province of Tarragona, also the Lands of the Ebro, the Ribera of the Ebro, the Lower Ebro, the Barbera Conca or the Priorat. Since the Republican Group, we believe that this issue should be as transversal as possible, and we have always apostated for this option. That is why Councilwoman Meritxell Serret has already promoted the creation of an interdepartmental table to address this problem and to deal with the rural depopulation of our country. Unfortunately, as you all know, the application of the 155 passed through the legislature and, of course, also all those policies that were due to the end of the different councils. That's why today we're celebrating that now our agriculture advisor, Teresa Jordan, is back on the road, and it's one of the priorities, and, as we know, it's going to put all the gains and all the efforts and the maximum involvement in it. A table that, as you know, has already been put into operation, and we are celebrating it, and it has had about three sessions, and in which, as we were also told at the last appearance of the Committee on Agriculture, Mr Luz, President of Arca, who appeared to us to explain all the actions they take from local action groups to strengthen the economic development of the local world..., they have also incorporated themselves, as well as the Foundation of the Rural World, making this table, right? , more transversal and wider possible. And here I do want to take advantage of it to give the councillor a treat and ask her that, in the measure of what is possible, she is also included in this table the recent – but very powerful – Association of Donations of the Rural and Maritime World. The women of the rural world are one of the essential pillars for ensuring survival in the rural world, a fact that I think we all think is more than obvious for what is the relation to the territory. But also those measures of equal opportunities between the rural world, not only in those known activities which are closely linked to agriculture, treasuries or fishing, but also in those other activities or services which the rural world must be able to dispose of in order to fix the people to the territories, men and women, and to avoid the depopulation of the peoples and at the same time be able to attract another population that the rural world seeks to live. These things, therefore, pass through this cross-cutting vision that we claim and defend in order to curb rural depopulation. And I quote some requests or shared visions with a mayor of a village of less than six hundred inhabitants in Lower Hebrew, Enric Adell, mayor of Paüls, one of the high mountain villages we have in the territory, since one of his main concerns is not to lose more population in his municipality, which during the past years has gone from 599 inhabitants to 547 and which has seen an increase in the major population of sixty-five years from 167 to 193. That's why we also welcome news such as the incorporation of young people into the agricultural sector in the 2015-2018 period, which has grown by 60_per_cent. And we know that part of this increase has been thanks to tools put on the market for the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, such as help to the first installation of young farmers, training in agricultural schools in Catalonia or the project Odisseu, promoted in this case also by the department of youth and also with the collaboration of local action groups, with the aim of recovering and returning human capital formed to the universities to the areas from which they originate. And it is that, as we have commented, the involvement of all the agents is essential to make this transition and to do so from this very effective cross-section between training centres, local enterprises, joint ventures and administrations, and by promoting projects and days as precisely as they are going to do to Paüls, the municipality he was talking about. A few days also collected for the DARP. A day in which, last year, he had the opportunity to participate in which he made Aguilar de Segarra, and in which he also participated Fundació del Món Rural, Arca, the Directorate General of Youth, the deputies, the DARP, and in which I told the essentials, for his presence, his essence and his contributions : the people of the « Munixic and also the Association of Micropopulations of Catalonia, with the objective of working against rural depopulation taking into account that one of the main difficulties found by the small people is the loss of the people and the need to create, above all, opportunities for the young people, and also to avoid the inequalities that exist between the young people of the rural world. And it is that in the rural world there can also be many other things and not all these other things have to go through tourism, but there must also be space for many other economic activities, but this, as the mayor of Paüls says, requires good infrastructure, both at municipal and regional level, as well as connected to large cities. I also miss some good digital tools. We can't just talk about smart cities, we also claim smart villages, and it can't be that we have difficulties in phone coverage, 5G or fiber deployment. And that's the reality, and that's how the mayor explained it to me. And allow me to set here a recent example that called for my attention, from a deputy from a small town who manifested her difficulty, including to be able to carry out her parliamentary task from home, because of the lack of a good connection to the Internet, as surely many of us here can do. And, finally, I would also like to add to my intervention the task for the observers of the rural world, and to whom I recommend everyone who can also follow up. In their conclusions, always keep those things very interesting, and sometimes also curious, from an economic, demographic and urban view contrasted with the rural world, and that certainly soon, enguany, they will also come to the Committee on Agriculture to explain them to us. And finally, and to keep it as a reflection, there would be two examples of these conclusions of the Observers of the Rural Mon, who tell us that those areas where mobility is reduced there are more problems of population aging. And we also end up thinking, and I leave it as a reflection, that as long as the aging grows throughout the country, the urban and coastal areas will certainly resist it better, to be more attractive and to have more services, and that makes the immigration of young people, and consequently, vagrant these cities, make it more Christmas. And to finish, since we come from a lot of countries, and that certainly many of us here don't live here in Barcelona and we have to go back to our territories, and some of us, as it is my case, have two hours, I leave it here. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.288.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the agricultural adviser, Ramaderia, Pesa and Alimentación, Teresa Jordà, has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.289.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you, Mrs Fornos. MPs and MPs, allow me to begin this inquiry about rural depopulation reading you a fragment of María Sánchez. Maria Sánchez is a Gadite woman, huh? , brave, wrestler, veteran, writer, pastor, also, that Darrerament has sacked the debate on the 'empty Spain, and Mary says thus: "Here were things, and there are still things, because there are people who do not want to leave their villages, people who are fighting for the rural environment to continue, to claim it and to have basic services. But in the media the negative always comes out: the ghost peoples, or the nostalgia of when we were going in summer. I ask: "Can't we talk about people with young people who have decided to stay and undertake, for example, by setting up livestock or doing handicrafts? Why don't we tell those stories? It's Maria Sánchez's question. And it goes on, huh? "What if the problem of depopulation began because of the lack of attention and the constant discrimination against all the women of our peoples? – it's a question. Think about it. Because, actually, that's the problem. The problem of depopulation is a problem for everyone. I said it was the Member of Parliament. It is not only a problem of this department, that also, obviously; we do not take away our responsibilities, but it is not only a problem of this department, but it also affects the rest of the departments, and not just the rest of the departments of this government, but also the public administrations, other public officials, and, like not, private; it is a problem, in short, of the whole society. But today, at these hours, huh? With this Parliament out of town, I'll give you some good news, huh? This problem can become an opportunity, and it only depends on all of us who are still able to revitalize these territories. And that, this opportunity over the government of the country and over, I repeat, over the entire society. People who have decided to develop their life plan in a village or in the countryside must be able to have a school nearby. These people have to be able to move around in a normal way in order to receive normal health care. These people must be able to access the population nucleus in an agile and not just agile but also secure. They must be able to have Internet connection, or, obviously, they must be able to have mobile coverage. Or, basically, they must be able to find a decent and normal habitat to lodge, to buy, in short, to make it their life plan and that of their family. Education, health, transport, communication, new technologies or housing; some services, all of them, absolutely essential for the consolidation of the territorial structure of these people in a rural environment. In this sense, therefore, the department, but also the government, we work with the objective of ensuring equal opportunities and contributing to territorial balance. And that's why, at the time, it was also discussed now through the Fornos MP, last July we re-defined the Interdepartmental Commission on Rural Depopulation, a reference tool at the government level, and what we did was open it and make it permeable to the participation of different actors, in this case, who bring knowledge and also expertise. One experience, obviously, that what he does, among other things, is to enable us not only to adapt to the socio-economic changes that lie ahead, but also to move forward – very important – to these situations. What's the point? So, very clear and very diaphanous. With the aim of reversing the situation of rural depopulation. And how to do it? Also very easy and very diaphanous: favoring their repopulation with policies, as we have said, that they are transversal, and that they pass to unfold realistic – important – strategies, but obviously also transformative. Therefore, the first line of work, Members and Members, which I would like to convey to you, is to facilitate the living conditions, the maximum of homologables, the most dense urban nuclei to the people of rural Spain. So easy. On this issue, too, was held the last meeting of this interdepartmental committee, which was celebrated two weeks ago in the department, huh? where they put, therefore, different lines of action from the different departments, and we also put together the motions promoted by the companies of In Comú Pode and the Socialist Party last July. That means we're moving forward. I will talk to you very quickly, too, because the time is too tight, about these actions that we have done since the department with the aim of ensuring the agricultural activity in the territory, basically to promote its cohesion and territorial mobility. But I said, too, that not only to live in the rural world does it mean that the people who live there because they have decided to live there and develop their life plan there, they have to dedicate themselves, precisely, to the primary sector, which is very good, and it is the one that is close to us, but not only – not just – they have to dedicate themselves to it, huh? I mean, that's what I think I need to say and explain it well. To give continuity to agricultural activity, three basic things are needed. The first is to ensure generational replenishment with the incorporation of young people into the agricultural sector. That's vital. Second, we need farms to be competitive, because if they're not competitive, then they're barely competitive. And the third, that the territory is dynamic, and in order to be dynamic it needs to be a source, too, of opportunity. For what he does to young people, let's say that in the last two years we have incorporated 3,415 young people, huh? , of which 1,692 correspond to the period 2015-2017. That's good news. And encany, for the 2014-2020 programming we are allocating, in this case, 72_million euros. For what it does to the competitiveness of farms, therefore, we are also working in the RDP, and is planning to allocate to it, in this same period, EUR 150_million. And what do you do about the territory being dynamic? So, we have a successful methodology, which is the Leader program, huh? , that many of you know, that sets the dynamism of the economy in the rural world from different beginnings. In this case, in this same period of 14-20, we allocate up to 62 million euros. These groups are in charge of defining these territorial dynamism strategies in the territory, and obviously favour the diversification of the economy – very and very important in the rural territory – and not just based on the agricultural sector, as I said. And with the fan? So, with very concrete calls for help, suitable help, also strategic projects, or cross-cutting cooperation projects. Let's highlight, too, the Odysseus project, which also spoke to Congresswoman Fornos, which is nothing else, or which has no other purpose but to incorporate young people, eh? in rural areas to develop their professional project. Also the practice Odysseus, which encourages the state of young university students in paid practices in rural surroundings, or, for example, the project Returns. I'm done. They just said that, you see, huh? , from the department can make great policies. In fact, you can invent the best policies in the world, which I promise you we'll try to do, huh? , and that we even sometimes get out of it, or that it's by chance, because the memory that we only have the 1_percent of the assumption of this government. But, despite the better lines of action, despite the fact that departments do their dues, we have a problem, and the problem is that society needs to be created. If we don't believe society, we won't get out of it. This is vital and essential, that we recover again, that we re-feel at society's rural pride. Let us once again be proud to have a country of comarques, of towns, of towns, of towns, and also of micro towns. Let's all go for an opportunity. This absolute disconnection between these two mons can be broken, starting with the origin of the foods we eat. So long as we don't get to hear it, or until a city doesn't understand that when it tastes like a calf's fillet, between it and it and the calf's fillet there's a rower, we won't get out of it. It's not that hard to hear. We have to get this, and we have to get it together. And I finish the intervention with a reflection, in this case of a Gironi geographer, Joan Nogué, who says: "I would like..., I would like to think that we are after the lesson, and that we are after the territory is no more a commodity, and that in disfigure the face, the landscapes, we also disfigure ourselves. And if we disfigure ourselves, we disfigure ourselves as the people, we disfigure ourselves as the country and also as the birth. So, that's it. The rural world is not only to be believed by this council and its team, not only the department, not only the men and women who live in the towns and villages and in the districts, but also this Parliament, and also society in general, because the rural world is also society, and society, which are, in short, people, also make this country. And if we don't want to lose it, if we don't want it to be empty, let's start putting it in value. But once and for all, we do it for real. Thank you very much. Thank you, Vice President. Too late to all and so to all. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.290.0	Thank you, Counselor. I understand there's no reply. [[Asking the Government about the management of public order]] [[300-00207/12]] Therefore, we turn to the point of the order of the day, which is the inquiry to the Government on the management of the public order, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. And has the word the deputy Matías Alonso to expose her.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.291.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillor, councillors, lords and lords deputies..., once again, from the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, we ask the Government of the Generalitat about public order. Once again, from Ciutadans we are forced to focus on what should be obvious: public security is essential to ensure the free exercise of fundamental rights and public freedoms. The rights and freedoms of all, not only those of certain collectives who are allowed high levels of impunity according to affinity, I do not know whether to call politics or sentimental, with the blow to democracy and the stated objective of achieving, whatever it costs, the division within the Spanish nation, with the secession of an autonomous community, Catalonia, which has always been a consubstantial part of Spain. This is a competition, an obligation of the entire Government of the Generalitat, starting with its president. We already know that Mr Torra cannot be expected too much, but I have to remember that the President of the Generalitat is, by legal imperative, a democratic mandate derived from the Statute of Autonomy, which holds the ordinary representation of the State in Catalonia. I don't know if that sounds like it. The institutions of the Generalitat, all of them, also its Government and this Parliament, are state. You, councillor, in your daily work, in your governmental task, are a member of an institution of the State, is a member of the Executive Council of the Government of the Generalitat: State, because, as bad as it weighs them, we live in a social and democratic state of law, in one of the few full democracies in the world, as bad as it weighs and despite their efforts to break the coexistence and their abandonment of functions when it comes to defending the fundamental rights and public freedoms of many, many citizens of Catalonia. Because today, as in many other places in the world, the greatest enemies of democracy in Spain, and therefore in Catalonia, are populisms and nationalisms. That, in the case of the parties and the parapolitical groups and associations that support the Government of Torra and Aragonès, go absolutely hand in hand, without it being possible to know where one ends and the other begins. It is you, this government of disgovernment in the Generalitat, as well as the parties and the parapolitical groups and associations that support them, simply national populists or, what is the same, vocational totalitarians who have not been able to impose their dictatorship, even though they have tried and seem to be willing to continue trying. Don't worry, they won't make it, we'll stop it again. Counselor, I have already told you on countless occasions, you, by delegation of the President of the Generalitat, and this in turn, by delegation of the Government of the nation, are responsible for public security. Therefore, you are responsible for keeping public order within the legality of our democratic order, as a guarantee of the free exercise of fundamental rights and public freedoms. What do you want me to say, counselor? It is their duty, their inescapable duty, to manage public order in accordance with the law and to do so with maximum effectiveness. It is a responsibility, a competence delegated by the Government of the nation, which is directly concerned with ensuring public security, in accordance with the mandate of article 149 of the Constitution, without being left open to inaction or inefficiency due to mismanagement or lack of means. I repeat this again, not only for you, but also for those hard of hearing who are part of your Government or who are militants in the parties and/or in the organizations and groups for politicians that support you: your inescapable obligation by the delegation of the Government of Spain is to maintain public order, guaranteeing the free exercise of fundamental rights and of public freedoms, without nuances and without excuses. But what do we find ourselves with? With that, thanks to the action and, when they are interested, the inaction of the current Government of the Generalitat, as already happened in its day with the disgovernment of the fugitive Puigdemont, in Catalonia there are many individuals seemingly uncontrolled and, according to some, uncontrollable, who have taken pleasure in totalitarian violence and to break in their desire the fundamental rights of those who want to live in peace, move freely, go to their school, institute or faculty to receive or impart class, sleep without the fear of intoxicating themselves with the smoke of the barricades, take a train and a plane at their time and with the tranquility of being able to travel safely, wander freely through their town or city without fear of being harassed or being attacked by the daring of wanting to be free and try to franchise with your motorcycle at the pace of the picket of what you defend as peaceful beings of light. Because that is what is happening in Catalonia for too long now, especially since the most hyperventilated members of separatism have committed themselves to imposing their totalitarian vision and preventing the rest of the citizens from thinking, expressing themselves and working in freedom, especially since the fugitive Puigdemont, the penitent Junqueras and their disgovernment struck democracy in September and October 2017, with the explicit support of many of you, members of the separatist parties, and with the implicit support of all of you – and here the spectrum grows with populists who do not declare themselves separatists, although they are. And that is why it is essential today that this interpellation, which goes on the management of public order by you, counselor, to guarantee the fundamental rights of the vast majority of Catalans, who are being violated and raped with apparent impunity. Because today in Catalonia part of a social minority, which is self-identified to point us out to others, has undertaken to seriously attack the foundations of democracy and impose its totalitarian vision on us all. They can be put on, counselor, but today in Catalonia, fundamental rights of many citizens are violated without the slightest indecentness, without the slightest feeling of guilt, invoking a superior and pre-eminent right: the alleged right to protest by arbitrarily and violently cutting off channels of communication, assaulting essential infrastructures, preventing the mobility of people and goods. We have seen for weeks, day after day, how demonstrations, rallies and protests convened by political organizations and, it seems, semi-landestines in the separatist sphere have led to major disturbances, in which barricades have been lifted, containers have been burned and the security forces and security forces, the autonomous forces and the dependents of the Government of Spain have been harassed and attacked; all of this, as we have been warning since Ciutadans for years, because both the organizers and the participants are frustrated to see that the expectations generated by separatist political leaders have not been met or will be fulfilled; all of this by verifying that the rules of democracy remain in force and that the rule of law is safe from their anti-democratic desires and whims. Do you believe, Counselor, that there is a pre-eminence of the right of assembly, concentration, demonstration, protest, over and above any other right that can assist citizens who are not engaged in the task of turning a blind eye to social and political reality? I have already told you, Counsellor: the right to protest is not pre-eminent, it is not above other fundamental rights that assist all citizens and that you, as the governmental authority responsible for maintaining public order, are obliged to safeguard. And yet we have seen how seemingly self-organized groups that you legitimize cut to the right and sinister main channels of communication, camp in public squares and spaces, invading and cutting, for example, for twenty days the Great Way, to the clear benefit – understand if irony – of passersby, drivers and merchants. Do you believe, Counselor, that you have a preeminent right that allows you, without prior communication, without application of existing legislation, to occupy its wide public spaces and channels of communication, violating freedom, also freedom of movement, which assists all Catalan citizens? Do you think, counselor, that it is normal and lawful for political leaders of the parties that support your autonomous government, of the Junts per Catalunya and Republicà groups, to make explicit appeals to the revolt? Because, if so, turn it off and let's go. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.292.0	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. To answer the question, the inside advisor, Mr. Miquel Buch, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.293.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, good afternoon. Congressman, I believe that in the round of girl phrases, claus and report words that your party's communication lab is dissensioning, you have already run the round and I think it deserves a prize, a recognition by the party. Because the only thing you're doing is designing a series of stories, designing a series of words, designing a series of girl phrases and constantly repeating them without adjusting to reality. Another comment on his intervention. You're... you're tired of repeating one thing, which is that security is delegated by the government of the nation, isn't it? In any case, it's a competition that this country has won, and it's a competition that this country is paid for, because the economic recognition that costs us Catalans and Catalans..., we don't get the money that comes to us. And it's something that's signed and it's agreed with the Spanish State and it doesn't pay us, like so many other things. So, he's a delegate, yes, we have competence, if that's right, but he's not paid, he's not paid. So, what you have to do... Now you can certainly do it with less intensity and less strength; I mean, your parliamentary group in Madrid has fallen very intensely. But I've never heard him from you, so I'm going to ask Madrid to return the money that comes to us from the government of Catalonia in security. In so many other matters it would also be interesting for me to do so... but, well, in any case, even though there are fewer Members in Madrid, they can also do something, which is to claim these moneys that are close to us. You have spoken of a concrete report without explaining that in Catalonia between October 14, 2019 and today we have had more than two thousand – but two thousand passes – concentrations, demonstrations, and you are focused on a few, that I do not say no, realities, but that the great reality, the great majority, has followed another. So, you want to draw a country... that you don't do right now, you've been doing it a long time, drawing a country that doesn't exist. What you say, that we live in Matrix..., well, in any case, you live in a movie that doesn't exist, because you are constantly trying to sow division, you are trying to break the coexistence of this country..., but you don't get along with one thing: that there are very fundamental pillars in this country, that one of them is respect and another is coexistence, and therefore they won't break it like that. With regard to the public order, which was the one that asked me, I tell you that it has been managed by aldorulls in this country for a long time, to a flexible model of public order management, which prioritizes dialogue and mediation – that to other police bodies we do not, in Catalonia, prioritize dialogue and mediation – and promote the search for alternative ways of resolving conflicts, always using force as a last resort. I'm telling you, other police bodies all over the world work differently; we work this way in Catalonia. And the Catalan police model of public security has as its aim to ensure the just balance between rights: between the speech rights of demonstration and the peaceful use of the public street by all citizens. If you listen to the intervention you've made, it seems, gives the feeling – if you don't give it to me, the feeling – that you prioritize a few rights over others, and you say: "No, no, I'm the ones you prioritize. Listen'sbe, please, listen 'if, in any case, we talk again the day you need. But the police of Catalonia, the Mosso d'Esquadra, do not prioritize a right over another: they keep the balance between all the rights of all Catalans and Catalans. And the police model of public security and mass events must be based on the principle of minimal intervention, according to the legal obligation always of proportionality, opportunity and congruence in police action. And it's more of a mixed model. I'll explain it to you because maybe in a moment I don't know, I'll explain it to you. It is a mixed model that prioritizes proximity with the dialog and distance with the intervention – proximity with the dialog, distance with the intervention. Maybe you don't like it, maybe you want it to be the opposite, which is proximity to intervention and distance to the dialog. I'm not telling him it's better or worse. I'm telling you that the current model of the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad is Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. All units of the Middle Squad Coast before any conflict. Obviously, we have a specific area of mediation, but all units, from citizen security to transit... all media. And, I repeat, this is the model that's right, this is the model that's right. Maybe he doesn't like it, but that's what we have. Maybe he doesn't share it, but that's what we have. And the fruit and result of this is that in Catalonia the CEO continues to confirm that Catalans and Catalans say that the second most valued institution in this country is the Squadron's Cosos de Mossos. Therefore, so badly they don't have to do it, when Catalans and Catalans gather – and they're just under the universities as they are at the institution – this way, this police model that has this country, that exercises the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, the Police of the Generality - Mossos d'Esquadra. In the case of mediation – I explain to you a little more how the mediation area works, which is its own, designed, worked and studied in the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra – it acts especially before acts that could generate any possible conflict and alteration of the public order; when it is necessary to know or eliminate uncertainties for possible actions of the organizers or participants of the mobilization. And the media area always contacts the people who lead the mobilization, whether it's communicated or not. Two aren't married if one doesn't fly. Two can't mediate if one doesn't fly. The media area tries to mediate. Sometimes the interlocutor doesn't want to, but the media area tries. The mediation area is responsible for performing prevention and mediation functions with the organizers of the act. And the performance of the mediation area always, always, is always politically impartial and realizes its tasks with the same tarann and willingness to serve with all the collectivists, whatever their claim and ideological tendency is – whatever it is. Therefore, absolute impartiality in the performance of the mediation area, like the rest of the body. And all the principles, and all the actions are in line with the current standard framework, the current one, which is the Statute of Autonomy, the Constitution and the current legislation, as the Law of the Police of the Generality - Squadron Mosos marks. With which it can be emphasized that it always acts with absolute political neutrality and impartiality, integrity, dignity, principles of hierarchy and subordination, in collaboration with the Administration of Justice to assist it when required; with relation to the community; preventing any abusive, arbitrary or discriminatory practice; with a correct and accurate character; taking decisions necessary without delay, in order to avoid an immediate or irreparable heavy evil, and always acting with consistency, opportunity and proportionality. And they act only in situations where there is a risk, rationally difficult, to the life or physical integrity of themselves, of the police, or of third persons, or which may pose a serious risk to citizen security. In the camp of detainees, for example, it is a job to identify oneself in a very precise way, to look after life and physical integrity, to respect the rights, honour and dignity of the people, to complement the requirements required for legal order, and thus to explain what it is..., which I have explained to him. The State of Independence, the Constitution of the Spanish State and the legislation in force. Now for now, it's the laws that surround us. Someday, perhaps, we don't have to complete others, but now it's up to us to complete them and they're the ones that the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squads. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.294.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next is the reply of the deputy Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.295.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, reality is clumsy. You have given me an explanation of the functioning of the protocols of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps, which I already know, and I have also contributed to some extent in this Parliament to the format they currently have, because I was part of the study committee which, in its day, decided to do so, right? [[Greetings.]] But reality is clumsy. Neither you as a government do your duties nor the parties that support you show a minimum of accountability required in democracy. We have seen spokespersons and Members of these groups calling to block the airport of Barcelona; certainly, none of them has apologized for promoting a tumultuous action that was healed with a large number of wounded and that also cost the life of a traveler of French nationality who could not be adequately cared for because of the impossibility of arriving in time for medical emergency services. We have seen how groups of violent uncontrolleds have attacked the law enforcement units of both Mossos d'Esquadra and the National Police with the manifest intention of causing as much harm as possible to the agents. Some of them have resulted in serious injuries as a result of such violent acts, which amount to street terrorism. We have seen how the border with France was cut, in La Jonquera, with a response – as little – tibia from the law enforcement units of Mossos, to which their ability to act has been limited. A playful-festive day, for some, which has resulted in serious damage to road infrastructure, and what is worse: severe economic damage to thousands of carriers who will undoubtedly seek compensation, which their Government is likely to face. That's right, most of the detainees for that criminal action, that of arbitrarily cutting the border, have been by the French police forces: several detainees, around twenty, while Mossos, according to my news, only arrested one of the rioters. It gives the impression that the Mossos receive some kind of specific instruction that makes them condescendant, if not permissive, with organized groups that alter public order and arbitrarily limit the freedom of movement of people and goods through our main channels of communication. If that is the case, you have a problem that affects every citizen of Catalonia; if that is the case, the political leader entrusted with public security, who has assigned the maintenance of public order as a guarantee of the free exercise of fundamental rights and public freedoms of all citizens, ignores, ignores or disregards the fact that our democratic system foresees and regulates the actions of the public authorities in cases where there is a manifest collision of rights, as is the case. Any of these assumptions is serious, and most importantly in a governing authority, and it is that ignorance, acting as if nothing or disregarding the mandates of the law can have consequences, consequences that I personally do not desire, but that it is for you to know and know to prevent them from affecting you in the future. So far, his response, probably caused by the necessary follow-up to his eschatological president, has been to announce a witch hunt within the anti-disturbing units of the Mossos d'Esquadra, while a distant attitude – when not directly insulting – regarding the actions of the police intervention units of the National Police, which prevented, with their firm and determined action, despite the precariousness of the material means available, that the serious altercations or street violence in Barcelona did not end much worse than they finally ended. Counselor, is the intention of blaming the incompetence of your Government, and the calls to provoke public discord of those who support them, for the agents who have played their part in defending the rights and freedoms of free and peaceful citizens? Counsellor, are you going to ask for responsibilities for the apparent police inefficiency in the face of the serious events that have taken place in our cities, on our roads, highways and highways, in railway and airport infrastructure? Have you asked the Director General of the Generalitat Police for an explanation of the apparent ineffectiveness in identifying and, where appropriate, punishing those responsible for the mobilizations? For many of those denounced by the Mossos are left without punishment and leave with rosites. Counselor, is that your model of law and order management? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.296.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, he has the word again, the counselor, for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.297.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, I told her a few months ago, I asked her if you please; now I don't ask her if you please, now I'm asking her. [[applause]] : treats with respect the people of this country. President Puigdemont is the very Honourable President Puigdemont, and you cannot treat the President of the Generality, the very Honourable President Torra, of « President Scatológico. For God's sake! But what did you think? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Greetings.]] It starts this way to divide a society, starting with its public representatives. Start this way: when you fail to respect the institutions of this country. So, it's very unfortunate! It's very unfortunate what you're doing. You only play the game of chrismation, and if you don't, I'm remunerated to what happened this morning to the government's control session: it all flowed, until your spokesman started threatening, started to... So much respect that you have to justice... It's that I pointed out the phrase... He defamed, accused, sentenced and condemned, his spokesman! So much respect that they have for justice and pass it through the lining! [[Greetings.]] Because they're doing it all the time! It's all yours! You're still doing it! When they see someone who doesn't like them, the sentence, the sentence! And that's what his spokesman did. So we're never going to get anything out of the rift. And what you did today, who played a game of hands, because you blamed us for inaction, has emboldened the Police of the Generality of Catalonia... has embolized it all, because you started saying that the spokespersons of some parliamentary groups have said or stopped saying. And what does the police have to do with what some spokespersons from parliamentary groups say or don't say? What do you have to see? Or do we have to take responsibility, the police's body must take responsibility for what his spokesman says, Mr. Carrizosa? No, no, The Police – as I said before – of the Generalitat de Catalunya is an impartial police force, a police force that strives for the rights of all Catalans and Catalans, regardless of what they think, regardless of their ideology. And, if not, the Catalans and Catalans would not restate their condition of second highest-rated institution in this country. I've said it before: not by misrepresenting the name of your body will get rid of it. Keep it clear – keep it clear. Because it is already beginning to be exhausting, his attitude towards the Police of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Looks like you're doing it to us, when she's a cop who's respected in this country. You spoke of "specific instruction in La Jonquera". Listen to me, as you must know – I imagine – the competence of the border is not of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra – it is not. [[applause]] He's from the Civil Guard. And there the French police acted because they were on the French side. Why did he act, if not? Or do you want the French police to act on the south side of the border? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] President, I, if we're going to argue here, we're going to shout from the benches, [[relays]] I don't think we're doing too well, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.298.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.299.0	If we don't keep respect to the orator, then we go badly. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.300.0	Respect the advisor's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.301.0	I haven't heard from a deputy on this side. [[the orator assigns the left sector of the hemicicle]] that you have failed to respect or interrupted it; we have listened to it scrupulously, we like or dislike what you say, but we have listened to it with respect. And now I see that this, unfortunately, does not happen once more, from its bench, from the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. I'm coming back; as much as I'm interrupting, I'm coming back. The competent border officer is not the Cosos de Mossos d'Esquadra. If the French police are acting, it's because they're on the north side of the border. And when they enter the south side of the border, the Mossos d'Esquadra make a device – and I have explained it publicly – however, because the people who had cars coming from the platform could remove them, and the people who did not have vehicles coming out of that platform. So the operation was designed, which I have nothing to see; it would only be necessary for the adviser or the Director General of the Police to design the police operations. Perhaps in their unreal country, which they want, the politicians will dissociate the police operations; in this country, which dissociates the police operations are the experts, those who know them, the professionals of the police, of the security; they will not be the politicians. Perhaps in an unreal country, in which you would like to live..., or which has lived Catalonia many years ago, that the policies did not exist and there were no others who did what they wanted to do... ; they were times of fascism, they were times of Francoism, they were times in which a decision was made for all. Thank God, we live in a country that we all want to decide for all. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.302.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the limitation of digital rights]] [[300-00202/12]] We proceed to the last item of the order of the day, which is the question to the Government on the limitation of digital rights, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, and has the word Gemma Geis MP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.303.0	Well, nice late, deputies, deputies, councillors. This could be a further question from this parliamentary group, but it will not be. It is an inquiry of complaint and struggle, an inquiry that should not be produced in a context of normality, but that, unfortunately, we are not in this context. We began the legislature after the application of 155, with prisoners and exiles, denouncing the regression of rights and freedoms, the regression of justice and its independence. A few days ago we saw Amnesty International denouncing this regression of the fundamental rights and demanding the freedom of Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart. Today, however, the adoption of the Digital Decree to the Permanent Assembly of the Congress took place. And we need to talk about digital regression, about regression in digital transformation, in the digital economy, in trading opportunities, in digital policies in the public sector. But let's put some data on it. To the 2018 generation, in a report, the Department of Enterprise calculated the impact of the business digitalization occupation and estimated that it would generate about thirty thousand job places until 2030 in Catalonia. To remember that the sector of the new communication technologies has increased by 29_per_cent in the last three years in Catalonia and is working for a 3.9_per_cent of the population, and that the number of entrepreneurs, with an increase of more than 5_per_cent, has reached more than 15_ thousand enterprises. In fact, the Barometer report of the innovation of Catalonia of 2017 established as 21.8_percent of innovative companies had allocated resources to the training of their workers in the field of the new technologies. But all this digital, innovative and advanced economic activity today has been censored after the adoption of the Digital Decree. Thanks to this progressive government, they can already intervene with us today, without judicial authorization, for public reasons. And who will be these motivators? Being independent? Piular about the digital tsunami? Have a critical web, a transgressor mobile app? Where is the limit of public order? And there are no limits, Mr. Sánchez's government has suppressed them; they voted in favour of digital censorship. In the country of Mobile World Congress, we will have a digital decree, following the digital model of the Xina. From dialog to digital censorship, censorship to all those you want us to vote for the investiture. Subtle methods of distension, which you practice. And at this point, show my most sincere disappointment with Podemos, who have abstained today. I know about the discomfort of MEPs in Catalonia in Comú Podemos, but when there are phone-rights in play, there is no abstention that is worth it. They start badly, and you know it. And what they're asking from here, humbly, is that they don't give us any more lessons in defense of the phone laws, because today they have a great opportunity and they've lost it. Xnet, a whole institution in the digital field, today affirmed in a pelada aran de l'abstention de Podemos : « In campaign, Now Podemos aims to the work of the citizenry for a free internet. Today, they have abstained from the brutal legal reform that allows the Government to intervene fully on the Internet. That's sad. There's one before and one after; there's one before and one after the application of 155, there's one before and one after the law bites and there'll be one before and one after the digital decree. I warned two weeks ago; an academic expert, not Catalan, not independentist, former senior member of the Socialist Party, claimed that the decree was a hyperventilated, non-standard, non-legislative decree without integration into the European law. Simona Levi, who claimed that this regulation on the internet has nothing to envy the censorship of Xina. We're back there; I don't see the differences between President Rajoy, who closed the U of October web pages, and President Sánchez, who introduces us and approves his Chinese, digital, model that he has. And I ask you, Members and Members, I don't know if you remember an advertising spot that has been considered the best spot in the advertising story, a spot that was commissioned by Steve Jobs, which is said to be 1984, to present the launch of Macintosh. This spot was considered revolutionary. I don't know if he remembers. There was a girl running from the Orwellian Thought Police and throwing a hammer at a screen where there was the Great Germ, while she was making a speech and this girl was asking for the lack of control of the citizens, this internet free. Well, this girl today, this girl from the spot, this girl from the 1984 announcement, we have her here. But we will continue to work in public policies, counselor, we must strengthen Catalan public policies. You belong to the model of Estonia, which is a model recognized for any company, entity, association of the field of digital policies. We want a country that leads and advances, and that's why, you, Councillor Puignero, has set up digital policies with a powerful digital citizenry; a cohesive, intelligent territory – we have already seen how optical fiber has arrived, a public service, to the region capitals of Catalonia – ; an electronic administration too – as it is working with the electronic decree of the Administration – ; a cybersecurity country – we have endorsed the Cybersecurity Agency – ; with digital innovation as the engine of the economy. Therefore, we want to give you support in these digital policies to continue to defend digital policy and transform it as a vertebral axis to continue advancing in this path. And earlier ugly reference to this spot in Macintosh, 1984, and I claim everything that that girl was defending. That girl walked in with a dexterity to defend a new world on the Internet, a digital world, without control, with full freedom. And don't worry, that girl will continue to advance, despite censorship and despite the blockade, because that girl is the Catalan Republic. Your priority is censorship of democracy. And, before that, independence. And today we have another reason: the digital policy of this country. His Chinese digital model of digital censorship is not ours. Trien: Modernization and transformation in Catalonia; digital censorship and repression of rights in Spain. A binary question: zero or u, and a clear answer: the Catalan Republic. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.304.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.305.0	Thank you, President. Member, Members, today I was able to go to Madrid – I have just returned – to witness precisely what I think is a very sad episode of the history of Spain. Today the Congress of Deputies approves, has approved the state of digital exception; we already live in a state of digital exception. And I can confirm that they're not my words, huh? , this has been mentioned by various congressional deputies, not specifically independent parties. Actually, so far, Spain, these past years, it's been known internationally, huh? So, for his police repression, for his digital repression; so, well, now he's decided, too, huh? , to be known, to be famous for leading digital repression in Europe. In fact, the one that makes Spain, the one that made Spain today, has been placed at the level of countries like Turkey, Iran, Saudi Arabia or the Xina. And they don't fight, because that's it. Spain has passed, with this decree, with this digital decree, a red line that places it outside the European Union's standards, and, if not, you will prove it yourself in the proper months. But what's most worrying is that this was done by a government of the PSOE. So it is a government of the PSOE, in an electoral campaign, socialists, in an electoral campaign, with a government with functions, with a royal decree express, without passing through the Congress, a decree that touches seven laws. They seem like the normal way of doing politics, do they? Is this the normal way that, from then on, the socialist governments will make politics at the Congress of Deputies? Does that look normal to you? Well, this was done by a government that supposedly wants to lead a progressive government in the state in its own legislature. And, of course, today it has also been shown that we may be more in favour of the great coalition than of the pact of this government of progress with Podemos, because who has given support to this royal decree have not been precisely nor Podemos nor any other possible partners to the investiture, but the People's Party and Citizens have been. So... Sadly, I also have to say that in this case I think that... well, I don't know if the commons share the position of Podemos, but this abstention they've made today, so, in a way, I don't know if the situation is that party more close to or more interested in some falls than in some rights. And taking into account that they had the opportunity to profile, with this theme, so the truth, I think... I hope that in the next few months they can, somehow or otherwise, change this position, because we understand that it's a decree that doesn't just give the digital rights of the citizens of Catalonia, it's a decree that gives the digital rights of all Spanish citizens. We are ahead of a digital intervention that has been designed for Catalonia, but that will affect the rights and democratic quality of all Spaniards; it is a 155 for the back door, a 155 without which it is known. We are also ahead, because this decree also benefits, in a certain way, from a re-centralisation as we had not seen it since LOAPA. I have listened to Mr. Pedro Sánchez who proposed this legislature as a legislature to strengthen the autonomous state. Well, that decree goes absolutely in the opposite direction. I don't know how they'll do it to convince, if they still have any chance, so other groups to accompany them on this trip. But in any case, this is a decree that does more than anything else, which is that it prohibits innovation, which is unheard of; in the 21st century, in the century of technological innovation, it prohibits the use of certain technologies to provide certain services in the digital field, and, moreover, it does so explicitly; today the Minister has said it again. Actually, that Spain is at these times laying down a decree of these characteristics, no longer from the perspective that we could hold the independenceists to leave this State, but from the perspective of what it means to be at the forefront of technology, of what it means to be at the forefront of new digital rights..., I think that more than one day this State will also be abandoned. That a state, that a government can intervene the internet, that can intervene the communications of each of these deputies without judicial order, engaging in the public order..., this means, for example, that in a proper denunciation the government can ask the operators, without judicial order, which mobile phones there were in that area to undertake actions. This allows for this decree. Doesn't it embarrass them? I, the truth is, I'm surprised that there are left-handed parties in this hemisphere that don't reach the arm, don't reach the word against it, or don't do dues with their own political group to understand that this is an inadmissible decree in all its meaning. [[Greetings.]] Look, from the Government of Catalonia we are going to take an offensive on all levels: judicial, we have already done so, we have already requested the precept report to the Council of State Guarantees to start the unconstitutionality process; politically, we will approve a letter of rights and digital dues, we understand that this is a decree that deserves government action to protect the rights of citizens; we will also act in the ballots there – here, at the Congress of Deputies – so that this decree will be repealed; we will also act with the rest of public administration in the State that also sees affected and that is affected by this decree, so with Euskadi and other communities; we will do so internationally. And, therefore, I have no doubt that the Government of Catalonia will be working and is already working because this decree is being repealed when it is better, and we hope that there will be other parties represented here in this chamber. Look, we're not the only ones we've denounced and we're denouncing this decree. Today some communications have been released; for example, from the Platform in Defense of Freedom of Information or the Association of Internet Users, Spanish entities, which have clearly said that they promote the nullity of the decree, via Ombudsman This is a digital decree against the Constitution of the Spanish parliamentary monarchy. But it's that Xnet, EDRI, is putting the crit to the one with this decree. Finally, lords of Ciutadans, you who, well, are defined as very liberal and go all day proclaiming your liberalism, escort, I will read you a tweet that has certainly made today the most recognizable Spanish liberal in the current – sure that the know–, Mr. Juan Ramon Rallo, on this decree, textually: "A step back in individual freedoms and the rule of law. PSOE, Popular Party and Ciutadans join forces to close websites without a court order – doctor in economics and professor of UPF Madrid. But it's that at the other corner, at the other end, we have, for example, a lord who will sound to you, huh? , a Raúl Camargo, d'Anticapitistas, an internal current of Podemos, who said textually: "The government approves by the right hand and the shameful abstention of the United We can law digital gag. Bad omen for this legislature, start by cutting off democratic rights and guarantees. Listen, until today Vox – until today Vox – at the Congress of Deputies..., ask them to listen and look at what Vox has said about this decree. He said precisely that it was "an abuse—an abuse—against fundamental rights of freedom of expression. [[Widow's remorse.]] That's what Vox said, huh? Therefore, you are advancing Vox to the right, you [[Funnel veils]] – Vox is advancing to the right. [[Greetings.]] The Socialist Party should be ashamed of the iron. [[Widow's remorse.]] Miri, this decree that Mr. Sánchez said was "to stop the digital republic, huh? – "to stop the digital republic – listen, don't shut it down – or shut it down – because this is a country project, it's a digital country project, to advance digitally... But do you know what's going to happen to them? That, trying to put a stop to this digital country project, what they'll do is they'll return Spain to the analog decadence. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-11-27-4402.306.0	Well, the order of the day is out, the session is up.
