ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.1.0	Let's resume the session. [[Question to the Government about citizen security]] [[300-00073/12]] The 14th point of the order of the day is the question to the government about citizen security. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, exposes this inquiry the deputy Mr Dimas Gragera. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.2.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone and everyone. Good morning, counselor, today we are bringing to debate an inquiry into citizen security, and it is an area that, in fact, can be addressed from many points of view, from many prisms. We could, for example, focus the debate on analysing the growing number of crimes that have occurred in the majority of municipalities in Catalonia. Look, as this graph shows [[the orador shows a graph to the chamber]] which indicates the criminal offences in the Catalan municipalities of more than thirty_ thousand inhabitants, for the period from January to September of the year 2018. We observe what I have said, that in most municipalities – it is observed in the red bars – the crimes have increased, having figures, to my mind, alarming, for example, in Barcelona, where they have increased by 20_per_cent; in Castelldefels, a 18; Figueras, about an 18, also; a 13_per_cent in Lleida ; a 18_per_cent in Manresa ; a 30_per_cent in the Prat de Llobregat ; a 20_per_cent in Santa Coloma de Gramanet ; a 13_per_cent in Tarragona, or, a 23_per_cent in Vic. The figures, as always, must be compared. And if we compare, for example, this 20_per_cent that represents Barcelona with other big cities, with the ten largest cities in Spain, Barcelona is at the head of the number of crime increases. If we compare it, for example, with something you like to compare it often, with Madrid, the increase is 1_per_cent. But if we see the absolute number of crimes committed in Barcelona and Madrid, the previous year, the figure, in absolute values, is very similar; something that to me, in my opinion, seems very serious, given that Madrid, as you know, doubles the population, almost, of Barcelona. One more fact: in the time that you and I are going to be debating, in this half hour, probably, according to the data, ten crimes are committed in the city of Barcelona, because in the statistics they say that there are about twenty crimes per hour and you and I think that we will be, more or less, half an hour debating. As I say, there were many ways to deal with the debate. I've given him some data on figures, but I like to face the most with real facts, not to hide myself in the coldness of some data, which I'm sure we have nuances and we could discuss about them. I'd like to talk to you about real cases that are behind these figures and that, in fact, are taking the day-to-day lives of many citizens of Catalonia. And now I'm going to tell you what they do in the movies: the content that follows can hurt your sensitivity, but sadly it's based on real facts, as I told you; real facts that have to live the citizenship of Catalonia; real facts that make a nightmare the coexistence sometimes in the neighborhoods. Because behind these numbers I have given you, for example, a 20_per_cent increase in Barcelona, there are people, like the neighbors – you know the case – of Raval or Barceloneta, for those who live with narcopies, day by day, because it makes them quite hard; or who have to see how there are white-armed wounded in full daylight in the neighborhood. Or behind this data, in Lleida, for example, we have the neighbors of L'Horta who are tired and have warned on several occasions about the increase in thefts. Or neighbors of Tarragona who report the increase in theft in vehicles, or have to suffer almost two daily robberies forcefully at home a day. The same also happens, for example, in San Cugat del Vallés. If you want, I can first explain to you the situation of a city in the metropolitan area that I know well, of Santa Coloma de Gramanet, where crimes have increased by about 20_per_cent, and where the police ratio per inhabitant does not reach one per thousand. Or it can also be told by the members of the Consistory of San Adrian, who were here last week, in their own words « to ask for help. They said you hadn't attended, and they were telling us about a reality of a neighborhood suffocated by drug trafficking and consumption, where there were up to fifteen thousand syringes in the children's parks and in the parks of the area, according to the data provided by the consistory itself. In addition, they have to endure problems of illegal occupations, of connections to the electricity grid, with the problems they pose. Something that, as you know, has happened elsewhere. It happened in Badalona earlier this year with a tragic outcome of a fire in which even people died. And it is not an isolated case, because we are also told claims in this sense, of associations of neighbors of Figueras, or, for example, in the district of Mas Pellicer, of Reus, where there have been three fires for these causes in the last two months. And the most worrying thing about all this, I think it is the inaction of your Government. The most worrying thing about these situations is that the neighbours, the citizens have had to organize themselves, something that I think is extremely serious. I am talking to you, for example, about neighbors who are organized in Reus to cover floors and avoid the entrance of occupations. Or the Raval neighbors, who sadly have learned the codes of drug trafficking and hang red handkerchiefs from the windows to try to deter buyers. Or, as the Socialist MEP said yesterday in her question, neighbours who organize themselves in Maresme areas, in neighboring patrols, to combat the thefts and assaults that exist in the urbanizations. You, with your policies, have managed to drive many companies away from Catalonia, but the truth is that you are a pole of attraction for alarm companies. I find it shameful that while there are not enough troops to cover the surveillance in the urbanizations, the Waterloo mansion is indeed guarded. By the way, I find it so surprising that the Socialist Party comes here to denounce insecurity in the neighbourhoods when, when we tell them in the city halls, they tell us that nothing happens and that there is no problem. They ask mossos when in the municipalities there is the occurrence of proposing serene to take care of security. And don't laugh because it's true, this proposal I've heard and seen with my own eyes. Citizens have demanded responsibilities in the municipalities and also demands it here, where – we understand that competition is shared – responsibilities must also be taken over. I ask you, Mr. Counsellor, today, to put yourself in the situation of those neighbors who have to endure incivic occupations; the one who has to live with an illegal brothel, who call you to the doorbell late in the morning; the one who does not sleep peacefully because they can enter his house stealing from him while he sleeps; the one who has been robbed in his car, or those who steal in business, because I would also not want to forget the serious damage that crimes cause to many businesses in our neighbourhoods, to many businesses in many areas of Catalonia. Also, put on the skin of that woman who doesn't come home calmly because she knows that many sexual assaults have been committed in her neighborhood in recent years, or of those who have to see shootings or stabbings in the daylight on her own street. Or those who can't take their son to a park because he's full of syringes. I ask you, in short, to put yourself in the situation of those neighbors who have to live in neighborhoods that have become real hells, of those who have had to sell their flat to march or worse of those who cannot sell it because it is not easy to sell a flat, as you will know, in this situation. And I really wouldn't want to put all the responsibility in your office or in you, because I think we need to look for solutions in the medium and long term, comprehensive solutions, solutions that are above all effective. That the solution I understand must be addressed from other perspectives such as involving councils, such as housing, education, social policies. But it certainly has been the community that has cut the most in social services since 2009, because it has not helped much to improve the situation either. Catalonia, our cities, our neighbourhoods, have an obvious and growing problem of insecurity and I believe that your Government cannot look elsewhere, it must face the face as it faces the problems. You say the streets are yours; some streets seem more like criminals than yours. We don't want the streets to be yours or the criminals, we want them to be Catalans. As one of its agents said, which became famous before Christmas, the republic does not exist but sadly what does exist are these realities that we have to live, that we have to face in these neighborhoods. We look at them from the front, we come, we ask you this question, we prepare a motion where we hope to reach some point of solution, where we hope to address the problem. And we hope that you too will look forward to it as we have done. Thank you very much, Mr. Counsellor; thank you all. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.4.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, all of you. Congressman, well, it's okay, we'll find, sure, points of view for the proper plenary and for the motion you're going to put forward, and I'm convinced that we can discuss it and talk and also help all sides to improve our country's citizen security, that at the end of the day, I think it's a shared and non-political objective, right? You said that security can be faced with a lot of points of view and I think you've made a bar of interested data that are real, I don't say no, but that they are interested data and that many others care, right? For example, when you compare crime facts in other places we have to look at exactly what is between this comparison. Because, for example, in the Spanish State when they talk about criminal acts, in the numbers they make, scams don't come in and from here, of course, lowers the number a lot. And, for example, I'll give them one more date in which the scams, concretely, in the Internet camp, have increased a lot, they have increased a lot in Catalonia, and this computes in the crime facts known by part of the department. He talked about different things, I hope to go - I answer them and if not, like we have a second return, we can keep talking. Miri, the last question of security there, that has the department is that of 2017. It's two years ago, so 2019 is another one. And this situation that citizen insecurity was at '1.1_per_cent when 2011 was at 9. So, it was down, 2017. I'm not saying that this 2019 data is different, but the last one we have, this one, the last one we have is this one. If it is true that between 2014 and 2018 there is an increase, an increase of 10.26_percent of known or known crime by the department, right? And it is true, in these four years it has increased this 10_per_cent. In fact, you have compared yourself to Madrid and I say that according to the statistical yearbook of the Ministry of the Interior, 2017– that does not include the known data by the local police, these do not count them, we do; we count local police and Mossos d'Esquadra, the statistical yearbook of the Ministry of the Interior does not count the local police, nor the transit police–, Catalonia is located in 55.9 fets per behind the Community of Madrid, of 58.6. Clearly, you are comparing Barcelona with Madrid, capital cities and I am comparing it with communities, which are what correspond to us, right? And between 2009 and 2017 there was a real content of facts and, as of 2017, these data recapitulate us, right? And concretely, we come up with three points: in stealers with force, in scams and in robberies. These felonies. In the field of thefts, they currently represent 48_percent of the fact against assets and experience an increase of 10.41_per_cent, thefts, concretely, eh? Because we have to place at the points, let's say, with those who occupy the most data in these statistics. And here we have a problem that is multirecidence. Before, four thefts were arrested, now four thefts is punishment. And here I believe that among all of us we can also contribute to attacking multi-recidence, because if it is not difficult to do the police work when you see that, therefore, it is not accompanied by the judicial task. In the robbing camp forcefully inside the home, the arrests in robbing have increased by 85_per_cent. Exactly, burglary arrests have increased by 85_per_cent. Therefore, he accompanied the fact with the arrests. The police act and work and look for people who commit these crimes. I, concretely, preventive arrests have increased by 104_per_cent. Therefore, tell us, that they do not only act but act well. And they catch the people who are dedicated to committing these crimes. And in the phenomenon of housewives, I also have to say that there are groups, criminal groups that are European in scope, that act in Catalonia as well as in other states, and, therefore, they are groups that go back, and – data show – basically they are groups from South America, the former USSR and the Balkans, huh? And here's a criminal group investigation job that's also hard to do because they're operating in Catalonia and going to other states to perform. In the camp of scams, I have to tell you that there has been an increase of 43,85_per_cent, of which a 72,4_per_cent are online trading. And a few months ago you saw an action of the Squadron Mosses facing Black Friday, I think it was, in which, therefore, a web page that was of staves had been detected, and, therefore, from the Squadron Mosses they found..., the server was alienated and acted via Europol. I also have to tell you that this scam also corresponds to another date, which is that, in Europe, Spain is the fifth country on the Internet market. So he's also a statistician: the more he buys, the more he cheats, the more he doesn't? And besides, the servers and the vendors who come to these articles, so they're usually out of our league, and so it's really hard to catch them. In the camp of total fets..., fets... – 2018, eh? I'm talking – about the percentage variations we've had with all the criminal facts we have on the table, I can tell you that it's increased by 11.11_per_cent. And in the detention camp has increased by 11.55_per_cent. So, what's the result? That yes, in increasing criminal acts, but with fewer agents – because you know we have fewer agents – the same people have stopped, or percentage has increased the same. So, what does that mean? So we also have a police thing that has made a real effort, that with fewer people has done a lot of work and, therefore, is chasing criminals permanently. Yes, it's true that our data is increasing, but it's true that arrests are also increasing. And as a summary, I would like to teach you one data that is a summary... you teach some data, I will teach you another, that is, in the field of the Squadron Mosses. [[the advisor shows a chart]] You can see here all these red fringes are the summonses that have been made of the Mosses in the last twenty-five years; the black strip is the total number of moves that there was, and the green strip is the number that 2006 was decided on a safety board that there should be. You see that the maximum number we've reached in Mossos is 17,138, when the security board decided that there were 18,267, 000 less agents in the account. From here on out, this data settles down and goes down, and during these years there have been no promotions. So let's just say there's little police... there's no police: we have less police than we should have, but this police has doubled the effort to pursue the criminals, to pursue the people who cause this insecurity. And the final results are that the effort has been worth it, because they have increased the same percentage as the crimes that detain them. And, as I said before, with this 104_per_cent, concretely, in burglaries inside the home..., it has increased a 104_per_cent; therefore, I mean that the work has not been going on, but that the people who have stopped have entered preventive detention. So, the work has been fine, I think we can be satisfied with the work done by the Squad. I would certainly like to thank you, therefore, for your commitment to the motion to strengthen these agents, to reinforce that they also support us, to give the necessary tools to this police, to equip this body with the agents that were decided in 2006, which we will still be about 1,000 and I will fall by the wayside. Then I'll have the opportunity to explain this 750-seat call, but I'd love to see it too, wouldn't I? At the same time, not only does it go wrong, but at the same time it goes wrong: "Listen to me, we are helping you solve these problems that you have... for example, the 800_million euros that the Spanish State gives us in the camp of Mossos d'Esquadra. Here, if I see them, too, then it will help us to fight this crime that concerns you and me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. Again, and to make the reply, the Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.6.0	Thank you, President. Mr Councillor, I think I should thank you for having dealt with the debate from a technical point of view, from a point of view of at least not denying the reality. Because I see logic, I see normal that when here... I have already told you that I did not want to focus the debate on the figures, because you know that we could be up to tomorrow drawing figures, and some would defend their arguments, others would not, if not the numbers would be changed to absolute values, to percentage... But behind those figures, as I told you, is the reality of people. And I really appreciate that you did not deny that reality, that you did a bit of self-criticism, that you said you have to look for solutions... Because, really, it wasn't..., showing these figures is showing a reality, it wasn't a total attack on your government; it was, well, a way to point out what are the realities that many people suffer, as I told you, in the neighborhoods of Catalonia. As I told you, the solution... no one from our group will ever come to blame you for committing crimes on the streets. We can therefore accuse them of greater or lesser inaction, but it was not the purpose. You have quoted and I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps as well, because we know that without resources, we know that without sufficient compañeros they are doing a great job and that it is really those who are maintaining that these figures do not go up. But it is clear that we have to react, it is clear that we have to find a solution and, well, you already know better than I what the problems are, my colleagues in the committee have told you: because we are faced with an increase in the pensions that will have to be tackled, we are faced with a staff that is already scarce, we are faced with a situation of agents who work without resources, because they are the first to put their security at risk to defend our own, with which I believe that we are dealing, but also already in the process of finding a solution..., I think that there are things that do not cost so much money, so many resources, for example, to have better coordination with the local police, which is something that the local police unions themselves also demand, or, for example, in view of this reality that exists but now seems to be a little more in the communicative focus, of illegal hooks, because to create some kind of protocol so that this can be reviewed in the neighbourhoods. And, look, I wanted to end a reflection. You say that the Mosses do their work, that they work well and recognize the work of the body. Imagine if they didn't have instructions, if they didn't have political guidelines, how well they could do their business. In any case, as I say, we will continue to debate this matter, we will put forward a motion in which we will try to address these issues. And I also thank you for not choosing the classic mantra of « it's Spain's fault, « it's Spain's fault..... because in many areas........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ With this, in search of solutions, as I say, we will present this motion, open to all groups to submit amendments, and I hope that we will find a starting point to resolve those realities which, as I say, exist, beyond the figures on which we can discuss. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.7.0	For the reply the word "adviser" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.8.0	Thank you, President. You said you didn't want to focus on the checks; you didn't give, I didn't give... I explained... because at the end of the day we all know that behind a thief with strength inside the house is a thief with strength inside the house, but the difference is that, if it happens to you, then the insecurity that is generated to you is much greater than the debate that we can be having right now, you and I. So, we're very familiar, that when someone suffers from a crime, so they suffer like the person, they suffer like the city, and we have to be and we have to guarantee this security, so I go back to trusting the system. And we're working on this, aren't we? He came to say, on his initial stage of this second intervention, things that I think I didn't say and that... but, well, if you understood them that way, I don't say no to him, huh? But I don't share your initial tram. You say: "We know that there are no moves and no resources. Listen to me, you have a lot more representation than the one who can represent me from... politically speaking, huh? , or at the party level in the Spanish State; help us. I asked the minister, at the last Security Council in Catalonia, to incorporate 750 moves, which are necessary, and in the end we have had – and I will explain it from here a moment away – to spy on us to keep them. Therefore, help us, too, you who have a lot of representation in the Spanish State, to do this work. Or also to recover these 800_million euros that would be used to equip us with more material the Mossos d'Esquadra. Or, for example, at the time of... if you've seen it now..., just this week there's been a news: that, after months and months and months and months and months, the Spanish State has disbanded the issue of the purchase we made, that we paid for the city of..., Catalonia, weapons and ammunition, in defense..., or in the work of the anti-terrorist struggle. The Spanish State has retained them for months and months and months, and this has, therefore, made our most unprotected vagaries at the time of the anti-terrorist struggle. I said that I did not speak to the first intervention of the Spanish State, with only a few very concrete facts, and which dealt with the issue of Waterloo, of "the fault is of d'Espanya, all that, it is you. I already know that you are the ones on the monotheme – you are the ones on the monotheme – you want to divide things. And I demand it, in the realm of security, in the realm of emergencies... it has no color. Or, a cop, at the time of defending a city, doesn't ask him what he thinks ideologically; I don't ask anyone. A firefighter, when he's going to put out a fire or save a person, doesn't ask him what he thinks, saves him. A police officer defends and protects him, the city. So, in this camp... there are many camps where you can work politically and defend an ideology, but in this camp I ask you not, please. And the realities are singing, and the data are singing, and it is we, in the Generality of Catalonia, with the lack of effect that we have under the number that has been decided, with the lack of economic resources that we need to equip these security groups, these security and emergency items of Catalonia, with all these deficiencies we continue to pull forward and continue to ensure the safety of Catalans and Catalans. Therefore, stand by us, help us also at the time of defending these resources that we need, these agents that we need. We are working together, because, I already say, in many fears – in many fears – we can discuss ideologically, what you want, but on the issue of security and emergencies, not, on the issue of ensuring the safety of the workers of the Government of Catalonia and, concretely, those who are close to me, who are security and emergencies, not. And in which we are talking about ensuring, in general, the security of all Catalans and all Catalans, regardless of what they think, you can't pay for this speech that the police is political or that the advisor gives political instructions to the police, because this is false – it's false – because we're talking about security of people, and, regardless of what a person thinks, a police officer in Catalonia defends the person and protects it, and a bomber in Catalonia saves it before an emergency. Therefore, do not subscribe to this debate, please, because whoever hurts us is the same agents and the whole country in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on university and research policy]] [[300-00069/12]] The next item on the agenda is the item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government on university and research policy presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo. The honourable Member, Mr Lucas Ferro, is speaking on this question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.10.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for being here. It's time to talk, after practically a decade of detail, about which university model we want for the future of Catalonia. The mobilizations of teachers and students of this late show that the current university model has failed, it has shown that there is a consensus between teachers and students about the impossibility of continuing to build a model of public universities consolidating retail and maintaining an abusive tax model. I was a student at the Faculty of Biology during the hard years of Artur Mas's retail. I remember perfectly what the student movement was all about, what the teacher was all about, and what the university community was all about, and it said precisely that the tax abuse increase and the details about the public university would expel students from public universities, precaritize the teacher's work and undermine the quality of the university, both to produce knowledge and to be an engine of democracy and equality. And surely, if that government hadn't been so arrogant and listened to the university community, today we wouldn't be in the limited situation we find ourselves in. The demonstrations of this year are no longer a protest or a reaction to the doctrine of shoc that you have been subtly subtly to Catalonia during these years, but the evidence that you have come to a limited situation in the public services of this country and that we are building them with a model that has no future, with an economic model of austerity that places public services in a field of failure. It is impossible to keep the public service in Catalonia running on assumptions that once a year consolidates the details, and it is impossible to keep charging the families and students in Catalonia an abusive increase in taxes. Catalonia is the community that has explained public funding for students the most. It's obvious today that the generality dropped out of their universities while encouraging young people to go to London to serve coffee. But the problem is not to remember the cynicism of that government; the problem is that no later governments have rectified the retail policy. A 20-per-cent breakdown of the public university budget has been consolidated. And these details have had very harsh consequences for the city council. Catalan universities have lost students, not from the beginning of the crisis, but from the Tax Increase Decree. Each year there are fewer students than the previous year to the public universities of Catalonia, and this year there are fewer university students than the previous year who increased taxes, than 2011; two thousand students to whom the door of the public universities of Catalonia is closed; two thousand young people from Catalonia expelled from being able to train and choose which future they wanted for their lives. And those who have been able to access the public university have done so by pouring the heaviest word of the whole state: a 67_per_cent tax increase designed because the families paying from their butxaca part of the details made by the Government of the Generality. The families of Catalonia paid before the tax increase the 14_percent of the price of studying at a public university in Catalonia, and today they pay the 25_percent. The half of the generalities on public universities have carried them directly on the scales of the families of Catalonia. And this situation is untenable; it is untenable that Catalonia follows the community that less invests in universities and that follows the community where families have to pay more to be able to study; it is untenable that every year the Generality expels thousands of students and that every year thousands of families, many of them in a difficult situation, face an unjust co-optation and abuse in order to guarantee a future for their children. The other half of the details, which the Generality did not want to compensate with the effort of families, weigh like a louse on the university model every time more pre-characterized and presuppositionally offensive. And it weighs especially on university professors. Retailers have turned our university professors into precarious workers. The associate professor and the teacher researcher who pays less than five hundred euros a month has increased by 40_per_cent in Catalonia; teachers who are covering structural teachers' places with salaries under the care of the poor. It is a shame that the pressure of its detail, here and in Madrid, has built a university model that exculpates thousands of students every year, that forces the families of Catalonia to pay abusive taxes and that impoverishes the faculty of this country. It is a shame that the effort of an entire generation has been thrown to the ground, a generation of young people who have not been guilty of their economic management and who are expelling them from universities for abusive taxes, and is expelling them from their barrels for abusive loguers, and is condemning them to a future of labor insecurity or forced exile. And this is the panorama on which this 2019 talk about university model. Whether we want a university model that follows, maintaining austerity and retail policies and condemning Catalonia to another decade lost in university, or if we build a university model of the future, a university model that ensures universal access, the generation of knowledge and equal opportunities through universities and ensures decent working conditions for the conjunction of its faculty. And I think the manifestations of this late show that there is no way out of the mig, that the public university system can no longer afford to continue to create assumptions that simply make up retail policies. It is no longer necessary to say that they are the most social assumptions of the history while consolidating a 20_per_cent of retailing in universities that makes the university system inviable. And to talk about the future of universities, we consider that there are three key elements. Catalonia continues to feel the community that least invests in public universities, or we return 20_percent of retail, or we continue to lead the put of shame in public disinvestment, or we recover university funding. And here, a clear question, Counselor, will continue to make assumptions of misery for public universities in the country or will it recover the reversal of public universities in 2010? We no longer ask for a historical reversal, we ask him to recover the assumptions of the public university before the retail. And second of all, Catalonia continues to feel the community with the most cherished materials of the State or to ensure universal access to the public university. This Parliament approved a motion urging the Government to reduce university fees by 30 per cent, the half of which was increased. What will your government do: will it continue to condemn the families of Catalonia to pay the most expensive taxes in the whole of the State or will it obey the Parliament and reduce university taxes by 30_per_cent? And especially today, when reforms and academic demands force a lot of students to take a master's degree, I think there is a question that is clear: will the government match the prices of masters and university degrees? And to make it more specific: will it match the price of the masters to the highest car degrees in the whole country or will it match their corresponding degrees? That is, a person who has studied, for example, Catalan Philology and wants to take a master's degree in Catalan Philology, will have to pay it to the price that has cost him the degree of Catalan Philology or will have to pay it as if you are studying Biomedical Engineering? And thirdly, I think we need to talk seriously about scholarship policy in this country. The fact that scholarship policy has not been able to compensate for the increase in tax abuse demonstrates the loss of university students a year ago. We have made it clear that scholarship policies are policies of equality and equity, they are not policies to compensate for an increase in tax abuse; that is, to ensure universality in access, and that this is done by building taxes that are assumed by the university student community, they do not have to design a scholarship policy to compensate for unfair abusive taxes. But it's more of a tough situation – and I'm done with it – that we think they're abusive. Will your government match the condition of a single parent to the condition of a large family in the decree of prices and scholarships? And fourthly, and lastly, what proposal will the government make to put an end to the precarious work of associate professor and professor investigator? Thank you very much, ma'am. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.11.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word "Constellera d'Empresa i Coneixement", Ms. Maria Àngels Chacón, is written.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.12.0	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Congressman. We agree that the current university system has reached a model file, we agree on the symptoms, maybe not on the causes, because you spoke very well of the details. We talked about it one day. We wouldn't agree with what caused these details, but more than entertaining ourselves in the past to me I'm very interested in focusing on what model we want for the future of our university and knowledge system. And now I will refer to some of the questions that you have raised. We understand that governing means having a strategy, legislating and, obviously, managing resources, which many times, therefore, are not what a man would want, a letter to the King, but who they are. And here I will also propose, therefore, a series of measures that we want to apply with the resources we count on. We understand at the strategic level that aspiring to a better country with a solid knowledge economy and with more and better opportunities for everyone has one of the most decisive engines in the university and research system. Obviously, education, talent, science, technology, innovation, entrepreneurial culture generate benefits that citizenship rep in the form of knowledge, yes, but also in the form of professional preparation, quality of life, salvation, the environment of well-being and also social and territorial cohesion. At the same time, they are foundations that, among others, advance our self-esteem with the country, our identity and contribute to the improvement of sustainable development, responsible and also to the growth and competitiveness of our economy. On the other hand, our country needs to improve its indicators of innovation in the productive economy to make the most of the capacity of the generation and transmission system of knowledge. Universities, research centres, technological centres and, in general, innovation-facilitating structures are a very important part of our knowledge system; in parallel to the knowledge generated in the product sector, they also generate knowledge of companies and have to work in coordination so that they can follow a country of opportunity from Catalonia. In this sense, higher education, not only the university, must also face a double challenge: adapt to the changing and needy of the business fabric and also adapt the business texture to the new opportunities of knowledge to make it competitive; challenges that require shared strategies of the business and academic worlds, strategies involving all agents and consensus with all agents of the system. And that's why we presented a few days ago the sort of story for the deployment of the National Knowledge Society Pact, vertebrate in seven axes: the mission and vision of the knowledge system, human resources, economic resources, the search system, the transfer and innovation system of the enterprise, support infrastructure for the search and interaction of the territories and cities. We also understand that there is a policy of vertebrate knowledge in the territories. However, in parallel with the development of this pact, which we intend to complete in a few months, we can continue to manage the distribution of existing resources so as to give access to higher education than the greater number of people and also improve the working conditions – here we are totally in agreement –, access policies, better working conditions of the teachers, and also the stability of the search professionals. Therefore, in this while we are managing we are concerned, and a lot, that they do not access the higher education system those students of family renders not that they cannot pay the tuition, that for this reason there are also the aids that cover the totality of the tuition, but also that there is no need to pay the expenses associated with the fact of attending studies. This opportunity cost can be excessive and curb the aspirations of these young people. That's why we're proposing to boost wage scholarships. In the second term, referring to the reduction of taxes, of university prices, we plant this reduction of 30_per_cent in the next three years. This 30_per_cent would start in a reduction applicable to the 3, 4 and 5 income trams. We want to apply, therefore, the first of the reductions to those students who have less income. You have also mentioned it, one of the other priorities we have; it is the equipping of master's degrees with the degree studies, because we understand that master's studies, effectively, can condition the professional trajectory of the students. It is very important, therefore, to continue on this line. And we are concerned about retention of talent; we are very concerned about retention of talent, and this is linked to the university system but also the search system. Currently we find ourselves with a search system in which 70_percent of its professionals come or are subject to contracts made from competitive projects. That makes it temporary, temporary contracts. And a 30_per_cent hold contracts of a major rehabilitated because they are based on a financing of basic structure. We'll have to invest that proportion. This is where we have to work. If we want to consolidate the search system in Catalonia, we will have to consider investing these data – and this is one of the axes that we will work on in the National Covenant for the Knowledge Society – we will have to determine which model we want for Catalonia and which funding to match it. For what it does to the public sector, the investment standards in search of developed countries are the '1_per_cent of public investment. We are currently at 0.8_percent of GDP. For what it does to the private system, European standards are 2_per_cent, we – here there is a lot of way to go – we are only at 0.7_per_cent. We're trying to promote it, we're trying to promote it. What? Through incentives to Aggregate Acceleration Entities, Industrial Doctorates, Knowledge Industries, etc. So, meanwhile, we're still betting on this talent retention with the resources we have. With what? So, I give you some concrete examples. For example, we are preparing a contract package of 1 and 2 search professionals that will go to universities with an estimated endowment of more than 4_million euros for these young people who finish their studies, who are attending their doctorate, so that they can be contracted for the universities. We understand that this contract can be rejoined. Also the students who have already finished their doctoral thesis, are on the march, there has already been a call of the program Beatriu de Pinós that will allow to expand from three to four years – one year more, therefore – apart from increasing the sound of the contracted professionals. And as legislative initiatives, we have also mentioned them on some other occasion, we are working with the Law of Science because we understand that there is an obvious legal precariousness for the researcher in this country, and also a new law of emerging companies, technology and disruption, because we also understand that many of these researchers are making it easier for them to start businesses. We also met with the Spanish government asking for, or, the competitions – we also talked about in another inquiry – in the management of scholarships, the elimination of repositioning fees that prevent university teaching contracts. We ask that this contract be made according to the presuppositional availability of each university. We also ask that it is easy to create degrees of 180 credits. And, in parallel to all this, we also follow genera policies, with the appropriate signed with all universities so that students who suffer genera violence, they or their children can change university free of charge. This is a convention that has been signed by all universities in our country. And also, obviously, the re-appointment of the Commission of Donations and Science to adapt gender policies in the field of higher education and research of the University Council of Catalonia. Therefore, strategy, vision, which we will also define, we will complement among all in the National Research Pact; measures in this meantime, in the management of assumptions, and, obviously, as it could not otherwise be, also integration of gender policies into the whole transversality that demands this field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. It is the return, to make the reply, of the deputy. When he wants to. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.14.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Counselor, I am somewhat surprised by the distance between the university community and the government. I understand that we come from different paths, but you said it yourself, that we would probably have to agree on what happened and why this model is a failed model. If we both agree that this model is a failed model, and if the university community agrees, we should not have such different diagnostics and proposals. You propose to make a system of progressive scholarships and to allocate a quantity that would be between six-hundred and one million euros to compensate for the increase in taxes, but that is that the increase in taxes has meant an increase in the collection of more than 140 million euros, and this cannot be made up with a proposal for six-hundred and a thousand scholarships, because we are losing university students back in the year. You need to assume the cost you have, reduce taxes by 30_per_cent. Not to make a dual system of universities or to convert scholarship policies into charitable policies, but to ensure universal access to higher education, which is what we are talking about. Because if the equity scholarships were to compensate for the tax increase, we wouldn't have lost two thousand college students in seven years, and we did. And I think that this diagnostic has to weigh like a loathsome in the university policies of this country. It is necessary to reverse the increase in taxes to the entire studenthood, and if we want to make progressive fiscal policies, we do not make them into access, which is a barrier to entry to university, fire them with fiscal progress, stop blocking the debate about the increase in taxes on the high returns of this country and do not want to supplicate this debate with creating barriers to access to public services in this country. About the equipping of degrees and masters... we think it's good news, but we think it's good news that you tell us if you're going to match them to the most cars in Catalonia or you're going to match them to the corresponding degrees for each title. If a philosopher has to pay a master at the price of a biomedical engineer or he has to pay a master according to what cost him his teacher's itinerary, and not on what costs the teacher's itinerary more than in Catalonia. There are points where we agree and we would also like to say so. We believe that it is necessary to reactivate the search in this country, we believe that we are in the smallest historical data. It has taken the impact of research and development to Catalonia, in innovation we are in very low numbers and we support that it is doing a research policy that assures a fundamental thing, that it is a financing base in this country, that it assures assumptions for university research and for non-university research that are basic and that allow us to retain talent in this country. But we think that doing so in such a slippery way in time will make it impossible to make a serious bet until five or six years from now, trusting that your presupposed increments are complete every year, that it would also be good to stay with candles. I think we disagree a lot about university access policy, and I think that's an element that's taking us a long way. I think you need to study seriously the reduction in taxes, and I think you need to study seriously the equipping of single parents and scholarships at the condition of a large family. And I honestly believe that beyond the basic funding of research, this country needs us to make a clear bet not to precaritate the professorship of university. There is a problem with the restorative taxes, but there is a problem above all with the university's assumption autonomy. We need to fight and we need to make it possible for universities to have instruments to contract their faculty that they already have presumptively consolidated, and to have resources to contract with fixed places and with decent wages..., they can do it, we don't all play it at a repositioning rate that will probably never be more than a hundred_per_cent and that won't allow us to correct the disinvestment of all this year in university professorship. Thank you very much, ma'am. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. Again, the councillor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.16.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Congressman. I said, we agreed on the symptoms, not the causes, because, obviously, we had to manage... you were talking about retailing, I was talking about the other day that we had to manage deficits, that we had to manage debts, and there were no miracles in the accounts. In this sense, many of the initiatives that you were considering, in which we agree, we have the space to do so, which will be this National Covenant for the Knowledge Society. And i said, governing means having a strategic view, agreeing to it, but it also means managing resources. The ones we have now are the ones we have, and from here, we have to decide, we have to make the decision where we apply them. We choose, instead of applying a linear reduction of all prices... – and we have already discussed in its moment the difference between price and real cost – the Generalita finances an 80_percent of the cost of university studies, the difference is for us that we will prioritize, in order to guarantee access to this higher education, therefore, to grant scholarships, aids, in these lower family income sections. What more would we really want, what more would we want than to apply this 30_per_cent of a step, which is 60_million euros. And I don't link it so much to tax reforms because, I repeat, the numbers don't come up for everything we need to do, and I think we prioritize, as I said, our equity system. I looked at his electoral program all about the university model, and if we take the thread for each of the themes, I think I've listed them and many coincide; in many we agree. These plans that you are now reducing immediately from this 30_percent of the taxes of the university priests, so, look, help us to approve assumptions that allow it. Because, as I say, I repeat, governance means having a strategic view, legislating and managing existing resources. In this sense, and considering that we are very and very much in agreement with most of the problems that the system has, I think we can find each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Decree of 8/2018, of 20 December, authorizing the creation of 750 places of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and 250 places of the Cos de Bombers of the Generalitat de Catalunya]] [[203-00008/12]] The next item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 8/2018, of 20 December, which authorizes the creation of 750 places of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and 250 places of the Cos de Bombers of the Generalitat de Catalunya. In accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules, the Internal Counsel will speak to explain the reasons for which this Decree has been promulgated. Therefore, the word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.18.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, Secretaries General, Director General of Police, Director General of Prevention, Fire Extinguishing and Rescue, good morning to all. I compare today before all of you to present to you the reasons that the Department of Interior has been hard to propose to the Government the approval of a decree before the end of 2018 on, concretely, the creation of squares of the Squad Coast and the Generality's Fire Coast. A law decree, 8/2018, which as you know was approved by the Executive Board on 20 December of last year. So, let me begin by briefly exposing the situation of the Squadron's Cosos de Mossos, which, today... we didn't speak for a moment, but I want to remind you that we have to pay back on September 17, 2006. That day, a Security Council was held, and between the Government of Catalonia and the Ministry of Interior, 18,267 members of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra were agreed to take part in the deployment of the Police of the Generality, the Police of Catalonia. So, the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra came to have 17,138 agents, as I mentioned a moment ago, on July 2012, but each year is lost by casualties, by deaths, retirements, excesses, etc. And police seats can't be covered with intermission. More than thirteen years later, Mossos d'Esquadra's body had 16,573 members at the end of the year, 1,694, therefore 1,700 less than those granted to the Catalan Security Board in 2006. The last call to enter the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra was of fifty new agents and was published June 2017. I want to state that from that June 2017 until the previous promotion of Mossos had passed six years without approving a call for access to the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. So now it will be two years, after insistent petitions by the Government of the Generality and after a challenge by the Spanish State, which delayed the initiation of the procedure to equip us with the necessary new promotion of effectiveness, the candidates have incorporated this course into the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia, and finally this June they will be able to incorporate into practice. Let me say that on this new occasion you make a special one once more of the high level of professionalism of the effects of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra in a global context of great reptes associated with security, such as terrorism, organized crime, trafficking in human beings, cybercrime, etcetera, without ever losing sight of the great pocket of citizens' security services, that day-to-day work that gives response to the crime of more ordinary character, and the protection and care of the most vulnerable. And it is precisely these challenges that have forced us to make an urgent decision so as to maintain the level of service of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. If the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, at the level of human resources, is in a situation inferior to the desired and desirable, the situation of the Cos de Bombers of the Generalitat is not less critical. From the very beginning I have been very conscious and I have explained here to Parliament and publicly the needs to which we must respond; I have been able to reveal these months in which I have visited and listened to many firefighters during the visits I made to the territory. I've been transferred by the Commandments too. And I know she managed it day by day is a bean. But from the very beginning, I've moved them that this government was willing to work hard to reverse an indistinguishable situation. In a show that I'm going to do next week, to the Internal Affairs Committee concretely, we can talk about you and me, and we can extend what you need to do to degenerate the work done so far in the field of emergencies, but, as you know, the needs have already been collected and approved by the Strategic Board of Directors for the 2017-2022 period. But if we focus on the object of the decree's debate, I want to point out that, except for the promotion of 150 bombers that are currently in school and that ended a year and a half ago 153, since 2009 there is no promotion of access to the Generality's Bomber Cos, since 2009. Hence the imperative need for these 250 approved places, and more so if the forecasts of retirements collected in the strategic plane are taken into account, which estimates that until the year 2022 can retire up to 684 people, 684 effects of just over 2,300 that currently has the Bombers Cos. These points on the situation of the staff of Bombers and Mossos, I also want to mention that the policies of containment of the administration's expenditure that the Government of Catalonia had to apply in presuppostarial exercises, clearly at the expense of the economic environment of that time, have markedly limited the approval of public employment offers for the incorporation of new staff into the Administration of the Government of Catalonia for a long period of time. This situation has been particularly relevant in the area of security and emergencies, since both the Generality Police staff, the Squadron Squadrons, and the Generality Firehouse staff have been affected by the lack of incorporation of us and the impossibility of doing interim work to cover the service. You know that in the case of Mossos and in the case of Bombers we cannot cover the lack of personnel with interinatges. This has created a structural deficit in these plants that places these bodies in a situation that is significantly deficient in effect; a situation that concerns us, and I am concerned about the head of the Department of Interior, and that I am convinced that you also care and share it; a situation that has made the creation of new places and the immediate approval of a partial offer of public employment for the adequate provision of public security and emergency services in this country untimely and urgent. Faced with this reality, and all the analyses that had to be done, from the Government of the Generality we decided to proceed urgently to the creation of nine seats of the Squadron's Cosos de Mossos with the aim of strengthening it so as to, as I said a moment ago, complete the number of assets granted to the Security Board in 2006. Thus, it was also decided to proceed with the creation of nine places of the Generality's Bomber Cos to cover the structural deficiencies that it flushes and that are collected in the Strategic Pla 2017-2022, which are obviously made worse by the body's aging. In this context, I would like to mention that there is also the need to stabilize, of a band, the temporary occupation of the seats of the support ladder of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, as well as the need to make and convene new summonses for the commands of Mossos and Bombers, concretely, 8 commissioners, 18 intendants, 44 inspectors of Mossos and 25 subinspectors of Bombers. In this appearance I make them today to justify the need for the measure, I also want to briefly expose them to the legislative context that the measure has taken and that today I present them. As you know, the current presupposition is that of the extension of Law 4/2017, of presuppositions of the Government of Catalonia, formalized by means of Instruction 1/2017, for which the criteria of application of the extension of the presuppositions are established while the 18's do not come into force, for which the expected endowments and credits are those that consist of the essence of the law. Thus, Law 6/2018, of general assumptions of the State for the year 2018, regulates in its article the offer of public occupation, and concretely to the part set of the precept is attributed the character of basic legislation, among others, to the part 1 and 6. And it's precisely these asides that the government approved at the end of the year and what I'm coming to defend before all of you. Thus, in Article 19(1) of Law 6/2018 of 3 July 2018, a repositioning fee is allowed for certain sectors of the 100_per_cent, among which the staff of fire prevention and extinguishing services are included. Thus, Article 19 1.5 allows an effect repositioning rate of 115_per_cent on the bodies of autonomous police. For what it does in paragraph 6 of Article 19 of Law 6/2018, it is established – and I read it textually –: "The repositioning rate of one or several priority sectors or collections may accumulate in other priority sectors or collections. These effects are considered to be priorities for all public administrations in the sectors and collections referred to in Article 19, paragraphs 1.3 and 1.5. Similarly, the repositioning rate of non-priority sectors can accumulate in the priority sectors. Thus, it confers on the Government of the Generality the competence to approve the offer of public employment, and that article 25 of the same Legislative Decree 1/97 determines that the Government may authorize the subsequent approval of partial offers of public employment in the same fiscal year in order to guarantee, obviously, the proper functioning of the services. The Government of the Generality, under the impulse of the department that I have the honour to direct, proceeded to the accumulation of repositioning taxes corresponding to other sectors or collections to the taxes of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and the Cos de Bombers as to sectors that are to be covered by priority character. Therefore, we took places in the different departments of the Government of the Generality to accumulate them in the field of emergencies and security. An exhibition of the priority that this government also has in the field of security and the emergence of Catalans and Catalans. In this sense, the creation of 750 places of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and 250 places of the Cos de Bombers of the Generalitat de Catalunya adjusts to the repositioning taxes at issue, enjoys the necessary presuppositional coverage and is an imperative necessity to which it would be necessary to give compliments in an untiring manner before the end of the year 2018. And, therefore, and in the use of the authority granted in Article 64 of the Statute of Autonomy, on the proposal of the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, of the Councillor of Digital Policies and Public Administration and also on the proposal of the Councillor of Interior, a server of you, and in agreement with the whole Government, in the latest execution council of 2018 was authorized the creation of 750 square places of the category of movement of the basic scale and 250 places of the Bombers Cos of the Government of Catalonia for the category of pumping of the basic scale. And I'm done. And, to sum up, we are working to strengthen the security model and emerge in a context of many shortcomings in which the bulk of human resources cannot solve it with interinatges. And, therefore, we act with the tools that we have. As you can see from this Decree Law 8/2018, on the creation of the 750 places of moves and 250 places of bombers, is the demonstration that the current Government of the Generality has very clear its priorities. I personally compromised myself in my first appearance in Parliament at the beginning of the legislature, and today is a reality. We'll have to keep going, and we'll keep going, because with these thousand places, there's not enough. You know it, and we know it. We need more. But this effort is what we've been able to do until today. As I said a few years ago, security is what we need to ensure democracy, coexistence and also to protect people and goods, and that is what we need to do with professionals from security and emerging people who are well-formed and with the right means. This thousand-place access call is all a demonstration not of intent but of fact aimed at improving security and emergency policies and ensuring that Catalans and Catalans live in a safer Catalonia at all levels. Many thanks, President; thanks, Members, Members, I count on your recovery.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then we move on to the interventions of the parliamentary groups. To fix his position, he has the word in the first place, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.20.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsellors, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, today the Parliament has to decide whether to validate or repeal this decree which authorizes the Government to create 750 seats in the Squad Coast and 250 seats in the Generality's Bomb Coast. I don't think anyone thinks that there can be a majority that denies the need to expand the Generality's Rocket and Bomber Cos. She's a needy, the councilman said too, coming from all over the place. There is not a lot of need for these two essential things for security and emergence, but it is absolutely necessary to expand their plants; a question that, if you say so, Mr. Buch, is not essential for the parliamentary group of the Puigdemont fan club – surely they haven't spoken to Waterloo this morning when they visited his guru at his luxury mansion – but this is a question of everything essential, of which they don't play. I'm sure they've heard me say it. It has been proposed to validate a decree which, in fact, the Government has already developed with the resolution of the call of the 750 places of the movement category of the basic scale, which will be covered by free opposition; 750 places called that come to join the five hundred who are in training period at the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia; certainly, called for the Councillor Jané in July 2017, shortly before folding and lowering of the ghost ship that at those times was piloting in Carles Puigdemont. Even though I still have doubts about the real commitment of this government, of the autonomous government of Catalonia, to resolve the difficult situation and the precariousness of the conditions of work that are painted by both security and emergencies, go so far as to give support to the validation of this decree because the situation of lack of staff of Mossos and Bombers has to be followed up and seek to revert to the earliest possible. That said, at this point in time, the Councillor has said, of the 18,267 officers to whom he should have arrived after the agreement with the Government of Spain on the 2006 Security Board, a number that may have been short of the nine threats to be faced by the Mossos d'Esquadra and which should be subject to a precise review in the case of this Security Board, together with the Government of Spain. This is also an essential question: to touch from little to little, to stop looking at the guru of Waterloo, to put thread to the needle and to begin to govern the one who touches, the autonomous community of Catalonia, with loyalty to the democratic order. The lack of effect has also occurred chronically at the Bomber Cos, and it is necessary that the government as it had been better to call the 250 seats that today we will validate with the vote of this decree law. But we need to talk about a law decree, a model that is now very fashionable and to which the Autonomous Government of Catalonia and the Government of Spain of Pedro Sánchez have referred for similar reasons; certainly, it also established thanks to four groups represented in this Parliament: the two who support the Government, the multifunction cross of In Comú We can and logically the PSC. In the case of the Government of the Generalitat, the thing sees from the moon. Since Arthur Mas arrived at the Plaça de Sant Jaume, at the end of 2010, there has never been a debate on the presuppositions of the Generality in time and form. When they presented themselves to debate and voting always took place out of line. I repeat: the last four legislatures of the hereus of Jordi Pujol and Soley, alone or accompanied, have never dealt with the assumptions in terms, and the mass has often been prolonged. And, of course, when you get into this little-curous dynamic with the institutional respect that the government has to have with this Parliament, the easy way is the law decree and go shooting. And this, a little more, is the case. It is easy to hear that with so much travel to Belgium, Germany, Switzerland or any town of Idaho it is complicated to bring the assumptions in time and form to this Parliament. It's all right. In its imaginary republic, the assumptions are not, nor are they good, the main law to the service of the citizens. In fact, most of their content in their country has nothing to do with everything that is essential, and they can always say that they are oppressed, that they have only been able to push for a few thousand euros, that they do not arrive at the end of the month, and, above all, that Spain steals them. Social measures, which blow their mouths when they talk about fantasy assumptions, are not essential questions or do not seem to follow. The only important thing is to get up looking at Waterloo and, from time to time, to go on pilgrimage. Please note, Counselor, that if today this Parliament validates the decree it is for the responsibility of parliamentary groups to oppose essential services that need the reinforcement that will be given to them by the new contingent of movers and bombers. Not to see the work well done by your government. What the government should have done is carry the assumptions in time and form, incorporate in it the prediction of the increase of the effects of both bodies. That said, and as I don't have much time, I have to repeat what I've heard before: the whole public administration, as well as that of the Generality, as its right-wing republic is no more than a joke, it is obliged to maintain neutrality in the development of its administrative and/or governmental functions. And you often say: "Movements are not a political police. And I say to him: « Neither are they nor can they seem to be. But there have been public demonstrations, public statements by his Government, in which he has given himself to hear, when it has not been specifically said, that the movements are not always and in all the service of the assembly of the citizens of Catalonia with total respect and in accordance with the democratic order in force. I remind you, counselor, that the democratic order is not the fake laws of 6 and 7 September 2017, which you call "disconnection comets". The democratic order in force in Catalonia now and for many years is the Spanish Constitution of 78, the Statute of Autonomy in Catalonia in 2006 and all democratic laws in force. Therefore, counselor, the moves are not a political police, nor can they seem, at any time, as the bombers can not be a major actor in the separatist strategy. Regrettably, I must say, very regrettable the attitude of some bombers in the past months in Catalonia. You will also remember, Mr. Counsellor, that I told you that it was your responsibility to maintain the morale of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. I told him, I'm sure he remembers, too, the secretary general and the director general of the police, all three of them, just a couple of days before the police council of November 19, 2018, that he listened attentively to the trade union representatives of the movements, that the situation that painted the body was dramatic, that they were in a critical situation, and that they had to listen to them and that they had to do something more than a gesture. I just need to look at the newsroom to find out what you did on November 19th at the Police Council. The union representatives, closed many hours in the councillor, and the outgoing councillor, entered the night, with Brimo protection and written for hundreds of police concentrated in the street. Look, counselor, you can't have the agents scanned and, without obeying the mandate of this Parliament for what you do to the disciplinary regime and to the performance of the internal division, allow the body to reach the level of internal division and demoralization that is patenting at these times. And this is your responsibility as a counselor, as a government. You should know that, but in any case, I have to say: the systematism of the political leaders of the Interior Department and the Government of the Generality towards the trade union representatives of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and de Bombers began with the first government of the return of Convergence, the first government of the Lord But, with Felipe Puig to advise, and from then on, this lesser understanding continues to present and attack the workers' rights and representation of the agents, ignoring the morals of the cos. It's his responsibility, Counselor. You do what you have to do. Put a thread on the needle and reverse this situation in the case of the thing that, I say again, is divided and demoralized. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.21.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. On the other hand, on the part of the Parliamentary Group PSC and Units for Progress, has the word the deputy Carles Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.22.0	Good morning, everybody. In the first place, let me begin almost by the end, tell them that we will approve the Decree Law 8/2018 presented by the Government for which it authorizes the creation of 750 places of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and 250 of the Bombers. It's not just that we agree, it's that we think it's indispensable and that it was already touching that it's possessin' the batteries. Because, if it is true that the personal protagonists and, in this case, the Councillor of Interior, Mr. Buch, have just arrived, as you say – well, he is already wearing a few tables – and it really seems that he wants to be aware of the situation in which security is found in Catalonia, he is not sure that this government is heir to various successful governments of the last years that have not abetted what is right for security, neither for emergencies, nor for the working conditions of workers, mainly firefighters and squad movements. And it says mainly because we could also talk about the forests, the SEM, and, after all, the people working at 112, the telephone number of Catalonia. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the situation is desperate, and desperate is their attitude. The security's rotten lsha. His decree already recognizes it; only that you recognize it, and that you act with celerity, sensitivity – that you also have sensitivities in this matter – and the urgency that the situation now requires. The same decree speaks of the structural deficit, and considers it a direct consequence of policies containing expenditure incurred by the Generality in previous budgetary exercises. What I have just told you: previous presuppostary exercises, proposed governments of which you are direct heretics, in the objectives, in the parties and in the forms. It speaks of the preamble of the law decree, to all intents and purposes, that this content of expenditure has had a special impact in the field of security and emergencies. Fuck you, that's what I'd say. When priorities were to be chosen at the time of retailing, they decided to pull out the security and emergence services. Yes, from the governments from which you derive. I suppose that as a troop, and as a more responsible troop and people with vocations, they would endure, despite the external and internal difficulties to their system, the corresponding public service. This should be thought of by those governments who did those presuppostarial exercises, of whom I suppose they would say they had nothing to see. Actually, you, counselor, go here and report as analyzing a situation..., with which we agree, and we also see a point of self-criticism in the consequences, not in the causes, but a situation with which they seem to have nothing to see. I advise you, after all, that you could draw from the doctrine of the PP and talk about those governments that you are talking about: "These governments that you are talking about. And at the end of the day, too, it was quite wrong, in the sense that security and emergencies have actually endured thanks, almost exclusively, to the efforts and dedication of their workers. They are fortunate to have found themselves with dedicated people, who believe in their work and in the public service they provide. But credit and patience, counselor, have exhausted them, because they are also very aware of the importance of this public service, and they want to, "shake their teeth as the fan as he is, be able to lend it in worthy conditions, so that they can truly give the quality that their efforts and the citizenship of Catalonia deserve. It has been allowed to arrive at a demented, col·lapse situation, in which there really is an increase in the risk, as far as goods are concerned, which is intended to protect, between which, as in the main, life is. There is an increase in the risk for workers and workers, who lend their work in conditions, to say the least in their own way; who cannot carry out their training exercises properly; who have fallen tools when they are not ill-treated; workers and workers who, at a given time, in an emergency situation, are also playing life. We want to know that the bombers have the vehicles and the chewing on the right conditions, that they won't have a problem with the necessary technical stuff. We want to know that moves and moves have the cartridges in condition because a third one can't pull the weapon. A few years ago, in Tarragona itself, where it seemed like a sad and abhorrent theft, from which hundreds of people were getting tired, a woman held the gun in a move and tried to shoot several pieces in the face of him and his partner. It's very hard. And they saved him because he wasn't carrying the bullet to the camera, I get it. And I don't go in if something happened to the cartridge, because I don't know, and I guess there's going to be some serious internal investigation. But in any case, we want every move and move to be able to carry the cartridge in conditions of safety. And we want, because the contrary is unacceptable, that the moves that work and lend to the area of Pirinaeus, to the Seu d'Urgell, to the Bergedà or to any area of cold are not to be bought the stuff of its butxaca, the robe of shelter, in order to be able to endure in conditions below zero. Therefore, it has reached certain levels of concern in the security situation in Catalonia under the conditions under which this public service is provided. There are reminders that when it's passed, Mr. Counselor, it's very difficult to pull back. And we don't want to make any demagic or alarmism, but we have to be responsible, and we can't store in the dynamics and in the parliamentary courtesy the situation in which we already find ourselves today as regards security and emergencies in Catalonia. We have to be very clear, I'm very sorry. And we already have an increase in the risk of using and enjoying public space on the part of all citizens. We've got him, counselor. And I refer to the inciivism, the brétols that exist in every municipality of Catalonia, practically, low-intensity delinquency, but that very much bothers the citizenry and that has multiplied by a lot, because there are no human means to keep the presence periodic to all the places that would require it in our territory. But there has also been an increase in theft in housing, in vehicles, etc. And it's patent, no, the next, the lack of effective civilian security patrols in the Catalan territory. We have petitions and continuing demands from different municipalities and communities across Catalonia that demand more movement. There's nothing more to follow than the Internal Commission at least to see it. We do not stop, one or the other, parliamentary groups, all, from submitting ad hoc requests and from concrete municipalities when the problem is already widespread everywhere. And they start in a few places, like the Maresme – and I've already found that they've been planted somewhere else – to prepare citizen patrols. Citizen patrols, ladies and gentlemen, deputies and deputies. And with the counseling of moves, with the counseling of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. They tell us that they give instructions and some training. I can't be, I can't see normal. Security is the most basic obligation to keep it from public administration, the most basic, and we can't leave it in the hands of private individuals, as if it were the Far West; we wear it with impunity a citizen initiative that is really dangerous. I'm sorry, but I need to talk like this. What message do we give? That we don't have the cover of maintaining citizen security, Mr. Counselor? Pay for an alarm and start patrolling the bars? Is this the message we want to give from a serious administration and with a history of dignity about the unquestionable public? Make him Bombers. 90_percent of voluntary, inoperative, consulting parks; between Balaguer and the Seu d'Urgell, the operational park; between Lleida and Móra d'Ebre, the operational park. And yes, I know – I already know – we're talking about a decree that precisely has more places to move and fire, and they're trying to react, and you're new, from what you know. But it is that we should never have come into this situation, and, moreover, it is fruit, as you recognize the text we are debating now, of governments of which you and at least are German people. But do you know the worst, Mr. Counselor and Government of Catalonia? Do you know the worst? Their attitude to relate to their workers and workers, people, who – I said before, but you also say, you also say, I recognize them myself – have left themselves alone, family time and salvation to serve in the best possible conditions. And you've treated them less and less. They chose not to comply with what had already been signed. You say no, but that's it. There is no negotiation of working conditions with the firefighters since 2003 – since 2003 – for sure, the time of that tripartite least spread that was the government that most invested in colleges, commissariats, hospitals and public servants of all the history of the Government of Catalonia. They don't even want to keep in mind that they're having a problem with the fire department. And they have volunteer firefighters who, at least, have some preparation; plan to take advantage, at least, of this experience of firefighters and volunteer firefighters. They have decided to leave every resolution of this holy Parliament as vain as they are. Paper mullat, Mr. Counselor. I have a list of resolutions and motions, which this government has gone through over the cover, about security. They have risen from the negotiating table leaving the unions planted while they are standing here, in this same Faristol, that they have closed twelve agreements of fifteen requests made for the staff of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. While they were standing here, they had sealed twelve fifteen accords, rising up from the negotiating table. Same time. Yesterday, Juntes' representative for Catalonia said that they did not live in Matrix and that they met with the unions, with the moves and with the bombers. The councillor has just said that we have fewer police than necessary – he has acknowledged it – but that they will do twice as much effort. But if that's exactly what they're reporting, counselor, they can't do it anymore. You're not in Matrix, no, you're in the other band of Alice's Mirall in Wonderland, or perhaps in The Worlds of Yupi, and you're paralysed by the government without making policies for the citizenry, so as to make a wall, in its case not physical or concrete, but psychological and abstract; a wall, at the head and at the end. Doesn't anyone remember that, Counselor? Finally, we would vote in favour of this decree and hope that it will be approved by the majority for this chamber, because the need, as the same secretary general of the department says, is imperative and must give him a compliment in an untiring manner. Start putting us down there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.23.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Subsequently, for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomão, has the word Joan Josep Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.24.0	Thank you. Vice President, Councillors, Secretaries General, Director General, Deputies and Deputies, a few years ago the Left Government of Catalonia put in fashion a phrase, which was that in its management raised a flag, the flag is called "Polices, Masters and Meths. It was a short way of saying which country we wanted, because through these public functions we defined public policies. We could also have said: "Hospitals, schools, police stations and fire stations, which at that time were inconstructed in an important way. It was another time, it was before the economic crisis. But I'm left with the music – you're also left with the music – of some indispensable public policies. What do I mean by that? That the public safety and emergency system of Catalonia, that school and university, or that the public health system are the children of our eyes. If we don't take care of this, I don't know what we are, but without this Catalonia doesn't work. Of course, Catalonia is a lot more than that, but without Catalonia it doesn't work. And these things, now we're talking about on one side of them, the police and the firemen, they've accumulated in the past... between seven and two years, full details, details that, as President But said, had touched them. What happens is that he said it eight years ago and now we agree that we're still touching them. And the bones we're talking about here are the bones of the cops and the firemen in Catalonia, who can't take it anymore. They told us, they told us in private, and, counselor, they said it in public, with a little soroll, because sometimes things feel good to do a little soroll. Therefore, yes, we are ahead of a decree that we will vote in favour, as it could not be in any other way. And we will continue to vote in favour of future decrees and assumptions that carry more moves and more bombers here, because these plants can no longer stand. And we need to deal urgently and continuously with our own years, more cops and more firemen, because the country needs them, as we also need to manage more teachers and, possibly, more doctors and more nurses. Therefore, these policies must be clear and clear. The seedlings are insufficient, absolutely insufficient. And some of the problems we're facing... – and these days we're discussing, for example, these vehicular patrols that are in some of the cities of Maresme –, if we scrape a mike, MPs and MPs, we'll find that the Mosses aren't coming. But also in traffic accidents, where we find the local police and it's possible that we don't find the Mossos, not because they don't want to go, because sometimes there are three accidents, and the Mossos have to decide who they are, because they don't get there: there aren't enough seedlings, and therefore these seedlings are absolutely necessary. And I repeat, the year he sees the most, the next assumption the most, because it is essential to have the necessary endowment. And it's true, today maybe the 18,267 moves have become an insufficient xifra, we'd have to analyze it, and we'd have to evaluate it on the Security Board's mark to see if we even have to go further, because security alerts and the presence of street moves is a need for public policies that the country needs. Now, look, counselor, the list is very long. There is a point, which is the 9th point of this famous document, which you know, which has made it reach the Mosso, which is the theme of the plants – I repeat – a point of importance; but the list is very long, there are many claims and many accumulated needs. I know the department gets smoke to try to manage this list, but it's their job, because – I repeat it, as I said before – the plants can no longer handle it and we need to figure out what to do. The Mousses and Bombers need the care of the Catalan Administration. Masses years of laissez-faire, masses of management on economic issues, on material issues, on issues of theft that have been poorly solved. There are significant levels of frustration in these public plants in Catalonia and they need to be listened to. They need when parliamentary groups come to Parliament from this chamber to say things like the government tells them, because in matters of security and urgency, the demagogue is very painful. It's easy to make a demagogic, but it's for today and it wins for tomorrow, and so we should try to coordinate and say things like that. And it is true that the assumption is limited, but there must be political commitments. Some things can be solved this year, others will be solved the year you see, but they need to know that there are some that will be solved in three years, but that they will be solved, that they cannot move from the top to the bottom, because this is what has been done in other years, in other situations, and this accumulation has brought a really desperate situation. So, yes, there are fifteen claims from the Mosses that require agreement and response, and I already know that the government says that twelve are practically resolved. But this practically, sometimes, has a lot of stuff, you know, and it has to be turned into firm agreements that actually make that the collection of Mossos is heard and that some of their claims and some of the details that have accumulated in these years are reversed. We talk about timetables, we talk about external hours, we talk about things that are sometimes small, but that psychologically have an important impact on the self-esteem of a template that – I repeat again – goes through difficult times. And that has to be taken care of, much left and much presence of the counselor on these issues. Also on the topic of Bombers, a comment: the parliamentary groups, all the spokespersons have asked him, counselor, a meeting to talk about Bombers, I think he should call this summit. I know you're going down from the week you're going to appear in the Internal Affairs Committee and we're going to have a monographic debate. There won't be much, the problems are deep. I repeat, call this summit with all the spokespersons from all the parliamentary groups to talk about the situation of Bombers, we also discuss issues of emergencies. Even 112 could go in there, which also needs a good review – and I'm not going in there because it's not today's issue. So call this graveyard. And the week we're going to discuss what is the situation of Mossos, which goes from salary issues to material issues. It's important that the bombers cover well, and it's important that if they need a crane, the tin. This is a matter of principle, it's a public service that accumulates all the details and puts our security at risk. I'm done. In these fears we should agree. Our attitude is ultimately responsible, as it cannot be in any other way, but I think, counselor, that you must know that you have a delicate subject between your hands and that you have made history of it, that it is giving the feeling, as at least, that it is reversing an accumulated period of detail and difficult relations with these collections, that you should be able to say that from this year and from this government it has changed and that in the next few years it will improve. We will help her, but if she doesn't, we'll push her hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.25.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.26.0	Well, first of all, a preview, and we've been able to prove that by means of a decree, you can create and you can have presupposition places. Therefore, this can be done without the need for an approved presumption and in periods of presupposition. Moreover, all this depends on the government's political will, and with this same mechanism – and that's important – could have been chosen to expand the staffing of midwives, psychologists, social educators, teachers, or even to make more room for firefighters than no squad movements. So we never want to feel again that there are assumptions that we can expand the seats of any collection of Generality workers. That said, we are already telling them that they have all our support for the call for 250 plus 25 places of firefighters, and therefore the call for the 275 places offer, as our parliamentary subgroup announced yesterday. In particular, these places seem to us to be completely inadequate, taking into account the unworthy working conditions in which the firefighters work, the progressive and gradual privatization of the sectors, which you defend, the structural deficiencies collected in the Pla stratègique 2017-2022 and the enveloping of the body. Yes, we do not agree with you on the priority you have given to the increase in Squadron's seats, because we understand that this political decision was very much linked to the security model that the Government of the Generality defends and, moreover, in a very determined political context: a model of punitive and repressive security, contrary to human rights, in which the main task of the 1,700 anti-avalots, is to defend banks and money returning while they are outside the people of their home, the same ones that defend Desokupa's kills, in view of hearing the reality of the veins, and not speaking, of course, of the criminalization of social movements, which are the only ones who are before their government. For us, living in cities and bars more securely is one of our priorities, of course it is one of our priorities, but a secure world has been linked to many more things than to the police; it has been linked to the provision of basic needs of people, because, Mr. Counsellor, we feel confident when we have access to education, when we have access to sanitation, to decent housing or to sub-governments, and therefore, Mr. Counsellor, more teachers, more social educators, more psychologists, and also some powerful public servants. And this is our priority, the necessary deployment of long-term policies that eliminate inequality and eliminate all those factors that generate insecurity. The participation of the police, for us, must be only in those actions in which it is considered that they can make a support pocket to give answer to the different problems that may arise, fruit of coexistence. And, in any case, it is essential to create in the police units a very different look from the present, a look of relation to the population that always starts, always, from the idea of public service, according to the full respect and promotion of human and fundamental rights for the whole population. And we're talking about the entire population, without the acceptance of authoritarian attitudes, precisely, with the most vulnerable groups for the system, especially young people and racialized people. In this sense, it is not only important that we have mechanisms to control the performance of the security features, but also that we can provide training for all police officers, with the aim of equipping them with tools that allow them to develop their task fully in accordance with these rights. But, unfortunately, our insistent proposals, our repeated petitions always, always, meet with its negative round. And we didn't want to leave without showing all our support with the sovereignty of the Venetian people, showing all our support with the Bolivarian revolution and rejecting this attempt at being promoted by Trump and Bolsonaro. [[You see: "Very good. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.27.0	Thank you, sir. Next is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, and that is why MP Xavier García Albiol has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.28.0	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to begin my intervention by giving our support, as it could not be in any other way, to the people of Venice, who are patenting the repression of the tyranny of Mr Maduro and who wish that, once and for all, the men and women of that country can back up democracy and live in poverty. From here, state that we, as it could not be in any other way, give support, validate this decree, a decree that allows, after many years, therefore, to see how faults in effect, both of Mossos and of Bombers' body, can be pal·liades or pal·liades, in part, with these nine places, with these thousand places. But you will allow me, Mr. Counselor, on behalf of your Government, to tell you that this decree is the recognition of a breach. It is the recognition of a failure that we will not only censure in this legislature or in its administration, but that it is the visualization of a failure of the past eight years, because, if it is true – and you pointed out – that since 2009, or after, eight years ago, we have seen how, for example, in the Assembly of Mossos d'Esquadra, the staffing has not increased, this has not been the fault or responsibility of the Government of Spain to come back, this has been due to the inability, at the time of managing the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia, of a government of a party of which you formed or formed part. Therefore, today, we are ahead of this situation, before this recognition of this frailty and which has suffered the consequences, first, the citizens of Catalonia, who have seen at least some services that are basic and then the same members of the body both of Bombers and of Mossos d'Esquadra; today, we are talking about the movements and of the bombers, but we could talk about other professionals in the public sector of Catalonia. It is true that, some years ago, there was a mandatory freezing of the plants to the public administrations, this happened, here, to the Government of Catalonia, but it passed to all the administrations – together, to the central government itself. But it is true that, since the Government of the Generality – and this seems to me to be important to highlight it and put it in value – there has been no type of political will to try to resolve or, as a minimum, minimize these effects of freezing public places. You had the opportunity, you had the opportunity – and you didn't want it, the repositioning rate, however limited it was during these years that there was this freezing of public places – to be able to go with this minimum possibility of the plants of the moves and the firefighters, and they didn't want it. Therefore, it is obvious that it has not been, it has not been part of its priorities with the Government to provide these professional collections with resources. Now, I was pointing it out a while ago, we're talking about Bombers, we're talking about Mossos d'Esquadra, but we could talk about other public services essential for the functioning of any country, any community, we're talking about doctors, we're talking about social services, we're talking, in the end, about what allows a country to function with some normality. Mr. Nuet said, "Moses and bombers want to be nice. Home, I would say that, surely, everyone wants to be loved, everyone wants to be esteemed, but surely, they would want more, apart from the "loving, eh? That this, therefore, is a more subjective subject, would want under dignity, material conditions to be able to work with a certain dignity, and the 'charity', moreover, would surely be very good, wouldn't it? But I do want this decree to be the first step, Mr. Counselor, in order, once and for all, to begin to equip these essential parts with minimum conditions. And, here, I want to highlight the great value, from a professional and personal point of view, that the bombers have been dyed and (sounds the acoustic signal indicating that the time for intervention has expired) the squadron moves – I finish already – but, especially the bombers and the urban guard, also from Badalona, the last 5 days of generation, when that tragic fire in Badalona occurred, where three people died, where we were you and I...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.29.0	Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.30.0	Finally... at the end of the cane, I congratulate the performance of these bodies, which I think were on the rise of what they expect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.31.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Congresswoman Montserrat Fornells.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.32.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies, people of the department and public who are accompanying us today and following us, very good morning to everyone. We are ahead of the debate and vote of the Decree Ill 8/2018, of 20 December, for which it is authorized the creation of 750 places of the body of Mossos d'Esquadra and 250 places of the body of Bombers of the Generality of Catalonia. First of all, from our parliamentary group, as we have always done, we want to express our recognition to the task of bringing to an end all the effects of the shell of Bombers and the shell of Mossos d'Esquadra. Make them a recognition for their dedication, for their efforts, for the efficient work and sacrifices that have been due to the end in the last few years, especially in those years of difficult economic crisis that the country has suffered, with the situation of content in expenses and content in public investments. There have been some hard years and, despite the shortcomings and deficiencies suffered by the two bodies, they have carried out their work with professionalism and ensuring 100_per_cent of the security and emergencies of the country and its people. We have exemplary public servants, with a vocation of immense service, that guarantee public security and save many lives. We don't have to be very proud and we don't have to forget to recognize his work and to do what is possible because he continues to feel a model of success and exemplary. In this Chamber, in the debate of different motions and also in various questions to the Councillor, as also in the debate of different motions for resolutions in the committees, there are numerous occasions when the lack of effect of the Mossos and Bombers' bodies has been manifested; of the structural deficiencies of the two plants and of the need to summon new places to cover these shortcomings. The same counselor is not aware and has manifested himself here, too, on various occasions. Therefore, this decree law that we are debating and that we will approve is very important because we can push forward and implement one of the many requests and needs of the two collections that we have approved here on different occasions. Therefore, from our group, we rejoice over this decree, because it was of vital importance, of vital necessity. We hope that this will be the first step of many more calls that will take a long time in the next few years to reach the required effect. We have many more times to achieve and to achieve, in order to improve in the security and in the emergencies of our country, because, more than the lack of effectiveness, there are also other deficiencies in materials or the better ones that are needed in the renovation of parks and vehicles. With the new presupposition of 2019, of this 2019, we will have a new opportunity to start putting it down, to start putting the thread in the needle. For what he does to the Mossos d'Esquadra, today, we have 16,600 staff and the Security Board of 2006, as explained by the councillor before, agreed that it was necessary for the body to have 18,267 agents; there we are far enough, we have been seven years, six, seven years without there being any graduate to the School of Police of Catalonia. For what he does to Bombers, from 2010 until now, the number of effects, the name of bombers and the caldrian thousand more bombers has been considerably reduced, as marked by the Strategic Pla 2017-2022 and also by Project Bombers 2025. Also remember that, in the face of the crisis, there was a period of eight, nine years without a call for bombers. For all this it was and is very necessary to cover this deficit with convocations like this, but in more heat in a future to meet this need for effect and also to cover retirements and the second activity, which will occur in the next few years. It will take time to work to reduce this structural deficiency of the two bodies' seedlings and also to think about the challenges facing us in the future. Without wishing to be an excuse, I think it's important to make some of the questions that I'm sure have hurt and caused that you couldn't make calls before. One, surely, of the questions that have caused us to fail to make calls – it has also been remembered – is the economic crisis that has affected all administrations over the last few years, with the content of the expenditure, which has to be done, and it has also affected the availability of sufficient resources. Another reason, too, is that, from March 2009 until July 2017, it was not until eight years ago that we held a Security Council meeting in Catalonia, with the consequences that this meant, for example, the fact of accumulating the debt of the State to the Generality of more than 600_million euros for the deployment of the Mosso d'Esquadra between 2010 and 2013, more than the difficulty of being able to summon new seats and of not being able to participate in international organizations or anti-terrorism organizations in the country at the level of 4_on_5. Also, without failing to comment, we cannot forget the fiscal deficit that Catalonia is suffering. They are no excuses, but they are data and information that must be taken into account at the time of addressing the complicated situation in this debate. These nine thousand seats in the field of security and emergencies, the 750 of Mossos and the 250 of Bombers, will help to address one of the many demands that exist both in the Mossos and in the Bombers, and that in the many meetings that we have held with the different unions that have passed on to us. We are all aware of the shortcomings and shortcomings that exist, and we have not spoken at various times. Therefore, it will be necessary to approach them. We all need to conjure up to continue working on pleas to deal with and solve these problems and these hardships. I think it's unanimous on the part of all these groups. Do it. It does, but with responsibility and without generating false hopes. Our task as parliamentarians must be to work to pressure and do everything possible because this is a reality. This call for moves and firefighters was an urgent need; to give it a compliment to strengthen its seedlings. We work to make possible all the other needs that need the two collections and to guarantee the future of our country's security and emergencies. From our group, that's what we'll do. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.33.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Ferran Roquer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.34.0	Thank you. Thank you, President. President Torra, Counsellor Buch, deputies, deputies, secretaries general of the Department of Interior, director general of the Police, director general of Fire Extinció d'Incendis..., well, the first thing I have to do, Mr. Buch, to get out here, is congratulate him. He brings half a year to the government, brings half a year to the head of the Department of Interior and has already been able to find places, sufficient places, 750 places for the call for squad movements and 250 places for the call for bombers. And he did it for a procedure... taking advantage of the restorative taxes held by the same Generality. This is a job you've done, but it's a job we have to thank the whole government. I come out of the house, from the generality, and I know how we were zealous, each of our departments, with our seats. Therefore, the Government is clear that it prioritizes the security of the citizens of Catalonia respect other tasks, for example, administrative, that force them..., fans less people. So the first one I wanted to put in value was this. You have said it and you have said it here: since the 2006 Security Board, which is the number of squadron moves to Catalonia in 18,267. We have repeated calls for the body, but this quantity has never been achieved. Today, today, we have passed a point of 17,100, we are around 16,500. And let me add another thing: this number was thought of in 2006, and I believe that the Catalan society today has some other needs. The Catalan society today wants a modern police, a police who are on its side, a police who are on the verge of arrest in the morning to democratically elected mayors, a police who do not go after them on the 1st of October, a police who act effectively and efficiently on the 17th of August after the Gihadist attacks on the Rambla; it wants a modern police and the 21st century, for which I would like to see them understand that these 18,267 seats will not be enough and that we will have to think about creating more places than these, eh? , fix a higher pitcher. You and I have met – you know it, I know it too – with different trade union organizations, different trade union organizations of firefighters and squad movements. You went up to the government after 155, the application of 155, which had devastating effects on your department. And now that I'm talking about 155, and now that I'm here, a record for Councilman Forn, unfairly engaged, for Major Trapero and for all the insiders you're going to assume. [[applause]] criminal consequences of his exemplary behavior on October 1. These negotiations, these union requests, often require, in order to be able to last, staff increments; reducing extraordinary hours requires that you make them by someone else, if you can't make extraordinary hours. Therefore, this call is one of the main solutions to the demands of the body. You know – and you said it yourself in your parliament – that other requests of the collection have been addressed, they have already been addressed, and others that were not in the first place of the collection – of the collection of Squadron Mosses or Bombers – have been addressed through the Government, such as the 100_per_cent payment of transitional work disabilities or the return of double payments from 2013 and 2014 to 2019-2020 and 2021-2022. How is it that a country like Catalonia, a country that is able to generate added value, a country that generates wealth – well – generates wealth worth 200,000_millions and falls each year, finds itself with the circumstances of having to discuss whether it has 750 more squad movements or 750 fewer squad movements, 250 more bombers or 250 less bombers, four more handcuffs or four less handcuffs? About this, there are three..., there are multiple circumstances that concern you, but I want to make three. One, the lack of capacity of the Government of the Generality to summon the seats when it flies. The Government of the Generality is obliged to complete what the assumptions of the State dictate, a government of the State to which we must ask permission to take summonses when we do not take them from the administrations of all the departments of the Generality. We have to ask permission. And, on occasion, the interests in giving us or not giving us permission to contract do not depend on the need for security of the citizens of Catalonia but on other political considerations. You said that, and other groups referred to it: the month of June of enguany will leave five hundred movements of the squadron of the formation school of the police of Catalonia. Do you know how much the Spanish government wanted in exiting? One-fifty not yet, one-fifty! After all the groups that have spoken here agree that it is necessary to increase the seedlings, as the government may think that with one to fifty is not enough. Another date I want to put to your consideration. The Squadron Mousses appear as the citizen security police of Catalonia and is agreed with the State a remuneration, the money the State has to pay as a result of not doing this activity with its police. A quantity is fixed; a quantity, certainly, without taking into account all the wage elements perceived by the Spanish police, because they do not only perceive the sum: they have savings, they have housing, they have a special rule of social protection, of cotizzazione. There is a historical debt, a historical debt that amounts to approximately 800_million euros. And finally – there was reference yesterday President Torra, there was reference to the Member Solsona, to whom I would like to congratulate from here on the excellent pocket that he made of the resources that were allocated to Catalonia and the obtaining of the wealth to Catalonia, the congratulations – therefore, well, this fiscal deficit. I was looking for some data on the tax deficit yesterday. Tax deficit, here is always discussed. Tax deficit for the cost of money flow, i.e. public sector investments that directly affect the territory. In a four-year series, a half-year of €16,000_million in fiscal deficit, a half-year of 8.2_percent of GDP. Tax deficit according to the method of the charge-benefit; it is to say, to the territory from which the taxes are collected, the servants who, when hearing from the person who prepares the tax balances, are remitted to their citizens. Because we understand each other: when Mr Borrell goes to the European Parliament and says that there have been two injuries on October 1st and says that images that come from stunning police people who are going to vote are fakes, this would form part of the burden-benefit method: it is a benefit to us, even though the expense is not dedicated here. Or the ambassador's jacket I don't know where or the Prado's gallery. This is 11,000_million, between 5 and mig and 6_percent of GDP. And you will say, "You have sorted out the years you wanted; you have calculated this over the four years you wanted. No, no, In a series since 1986, there was no year that this country had no fiscal deficit. And another thing: do you know how much this represents about GDP? The middle is exactly 8_per_cent. You say: "Oh, but there are years that there is more and there are years that there is less. No; typical deviation, standard deviation, 0.9. I mean, in a 7,1 and 8,9, we'd find this country's entire deficit. And this..., 16,000_millions, is that a number that can't be..., you know how much it is per person, that? About 2,200 or 2,300_euros per person/ year. With all these resources and all these circumstances that I have told you we can meet the needs of the citizens, we can meet the licit needs – and that in my opinion they are entirely right – of the movements of the squadrons, of the bombers and of all the other services that this country needs. We will of course support the validation of this decree, because as a result of the approval of this decree we will have a better country because their cities will live better. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.35.0	Thank you, Congressman. After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Decree Law 8/2018. According to Rule 158(3) of the Rules of Procedure, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes denied are in favour of the derogation. Let's start the vote. Decree Law 8/2018_is validated by 122 votes in favour, against and 4 abstentions. According to Article 158.4 I have to ask the chamber if any group wants to process this decree as the bill. Is there a group that wants to process it? Don't you? [[Pause.]] [[Proposal for a law of measures for the depoliticization of the governing bodies of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation (debate of totality and withdrawal)]] [[202-00027/12]] So let's move to the next item on the order of the day, which is the debate on the totality of the proposed law of measures for the depoliticization of the governing bodies of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, which, as you know, and as it was agreed... [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please. If they're gonna get out of the hemicicle, they're gonna do it in silence. He said that this debate will be consolidated, as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, with the debate on the proposal for a partial amendment law of Law 2/2000 of 4 May, of the Council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia. We will have a joint debate, and in the first place, to expose the position of the group, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans and for a maximum of fifteen minutes, the deputy Mr David Mejía. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.36.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, councillors, deputies, deputies, say that on the third time it is over, and today, for the third time, after three legislatures with the question that concerns us, we again bring a new proposal to modify the law of public communication media in Catalonia. I honestly believe that, if anything can come out of all this recourse that we have had, it is that the consensus to return to two-thirds for the renewal of the direct organs of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation seems consolidated, or so we believe, or so we expect. Now, it is also true that the rush to bring it to the end of the different parliamentary groups has different speeds, and we, from Ciutadans, believe that it is time to do so. We think we have no more excuses, that no group of this chamber has more excuses for not reaching a satisfactory agreement for the interests of the corporation. In fact, today there are two proposals: one for Ciutadans, with an ambitious proposal for amending the law, and another, signed for the conjunction of parliamentary groups, also for Ciutadans, with a few absolutely necessary minimums to change the legislation and to make the new audiovisual legislation more pluralistic. Because, as it is, the final objective we have to pursue is this, that of plural, neutral and objective public communication means, which represent the diversity of Catalan society. And sad, as you know, that's not happening right now, so it's not happening. And that's why the title of our bill, which talks about the depoliticization of corporate governance organs. Because depoliticizing is synonymous with plurality, "depoliticizing is synonymous with neutrality, "depoliticizing is synonymous with objectivity. And how can they achieve these goals? We have many steps to take, but it is essential to do one thing: by mediating the election of a public contest, by choosing the members of the governing body from the direction of the corporation. A public contest that remains open; a public contest that remains transparent; a public contest that has equal opportunities for all those who want to present themselves; where are the merits and professional skills of the people, and not the party card that they have; that the professional experience that they have is an indispensable requirement, and that their political militancy does not follow. We were talking about the need to depoliticize, and it is an imperative need. It is also about recovering the public service or public interest function that should have TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio, and giving up once and for all the service function to separatism and the independence process, which is, unfortunately, what is currently happening. Examples of the use of public media as an apparatus of agitation and independent propaganda are really countless, with programs of any kind of format: from informative, to entertainment programs, to humor programs. In fact, it is clear in every supervisory committee in this institution, and it is also clear that it is not an isolated example, but rather the opposite. These are constant examples that we can see, as I said, in the daily newspapers, but also in those of documentaries, going through the entertainment programs, as I said, or even in the children's programs, where Mr Puigdemont becomes a superhero, a really surreal thing, no doubt, and more when it comes from a public television that we pay all Catalans. Therefore, a surreal and worrying and constant issue. Obviously, the chats that take place both in Television in Catalonia and in Catalonia Radio are no exception, as we were able to see in fact after the Government's response to the questions that we asked from our parliamentary group, in which we were able to verify, precisely, something that many of us already knew: in political debate programmes, the proportion of separatist or procedural Tertullians has nothing to do with the real proportion of Catalan society. As we have seen in some media that this issue is echoed, the number of separatist or procedural Tertullians quadruples the number of constitutionalist Tertullians. All this, by the way, despite what the style book of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation itself says, which includes among its objectives the will to reflect the pluralism of our society. As I said, unfortunately, these examples are not isolated episodes, but are a systematic practice aimed at supporting the separatist thesis among Catalan public opinion. And without going any further, to put some recent example..., we could really put many examples, but to put a recent example, we have seen this very week how in the news there was a piece of support from a Member of the Scottish National Party to Mrs Forcadell. But it turns out – it turns out – that the same day in the Eurochamber, in the European Parliament, the file examining the lack of plurality of TV3 was debated and kept open, an aspect that obviously took up most of the media but that on TV3 there was not a single comment. Curious, isn't it? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, TV3 manipulates every day, sadly. It's sad, it's really sad. But nothing surprises us anymore. How is it going to surprise us when we have an acting president who has the Democratic Convergence Carnet or the PDECAT? How is it going to surprise us when we have a director of the Television of Catalonia, who is reprobated, by the way, by this Parliament, who is holding rallies and who is also accused of 1 October? Also the acting president, also the director of Catalonia Radio. I guess and I understand – I understand – that talking about plurality for them is very difficult to sustain when, for example, interviews were made with the leader of the opposition and in which the lack of objectivity that the director of a public television, who was the interviewer, was absolutely portrayed. Well, that's who was arguing with the opposition leader, because interviewing, interviewing, the truth is pretty little. But, deputies and deputies, we have other rights, too. First, to require the Government of the Generality to draw up a new programme contract. In fact, it is a question that we have been claiming for many and many years, and that we have been claiming not only from Ciutadans, but also from other groups in the chamber, and also in committee in Parliament. The government's answer is always the same, but I honestly don't convince anyone anymore. I'm sorry I didn't do it. Ishan's done. Don't take our hair any more; but not at the assembly of the deputies, but at the assembly of the city. It is unacceptable that we do not have a program contract since 2009–from 2009–; that is to say, years ago we should have a program contract. Without it, how do they plan to give your security to the corporation? How do you plan to donate your finances, if we don't have a program contract that you define? Who are the concrete and specific objectives of the corporation? What's his planning? We don't have any planning. Mr. Homs, in his moment, imagine, Mr. Homs, when he was a counselor, said that they were already working on this program contract. So honestly, we think you have to have a lot of hands in the cove and that the counselors who have passed after him have a lot of work to do in pulling the pulse that must be over there. But it's already up to the government to exercise its functions, it's up to the government to work, which is why they pay them, it's up to the government to make this program contract that's been going on for years – it's going on for years – that should have been done. Honestly, do you think this is serious? We don't believe it. It's more, we think it's unacceptable and untenable. And that it's still more embarrassing to go around collecting public money from media, without any kind of planning, without any kind of strategy. In conclusion, these proposals for law are a demand for political parties, for many of the political parties, for the audiovisual sector as well, for the workers of the house, and you know, from Ciutadans we know that there are many things to change, that there are many changes to make and to improve in the context of the audiovisual sector. Because really in Catalonia we have a very powerful audiovisual sector and we have to go hand in hand. But the urgency, the urgency of depoliticization of public media is maximal – maximal – needed. And that's why we have to be on the rise of what is claimed and do everything possible once and for all to give an answer to this question, which, as I said, carries three legislatures on the table. And give an answer that helps those requests set precisely in the corporate style book, so it's complete. We will put everything on our side, as we have always done in this matter. We won't let the opportunity pass another time to make this change. Let us not let the train of consent and plurality escape again. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.37.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Proposal for a partial amendment law to Law 2/2000 of 4 May 2000 of the Council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia (debate of totality)]] [[202-00030/12]] Next, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, Mr David Pérez has the words. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.38.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, in any case, I will take the time to stand in favour of the proposal that we are presenting; I assume that other members will also make a point of what we have all signed up to. It is a proposal which is endorsed by different motions approved in this Parliament and which, in the end, is to return to the governance criteria inspired by the 2007 law. Let's remember that it's the name of the Tresserras law, the law of 2007, huh? , and what we want is to return to the 2007 governance criteria, which is very easily summarized: that agreements are made by consensus, mostly, if it can be, two-thirds. A legislative initiative that has a fundamental impact on both the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjans Corporation and the Catalan Audiovisual Council. And, indeed, one of the points of the law is the topic of the programme contract; it is in paragraph f. And why is the program contract important? Why is this program contract important? So basically for a reason: because what they claim to be the program contract is not to depolitize the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans; what they claim to be degovernmentalizing the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, is to say, that it does not take over from the government, because every time – and at the last control commission another time – that sees the president in office and says that it again asks the government for an economic amount for the maintenance and day-to-day of the corporation, an extraordinary contribution, in this case – well, always exceeds the million euros –, which it does depend on every time more of the government and, therefore, what it loses is autonomy, which it loses, therefore, is the possibility of being completely independent of the government. Of course he's got to have pluralized it. There are many, of pluralities: plurality of vision, plurality of genera, plurality of vision, age, but also political plurality, there must also have been political plurality and it is essential that there be the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Media. Therefore, we would agree with what we are presenting, because it goes in line with what we have always talked about. Indeed, it was Councilman Homs who said: "The week we will be presenting our proposal for a programme contract. And that's a long time ago. The last attempt to make a program contract, and let's go back before, was the tripartite government, at the time Tresserras. We did not give up, therefore, and we understand that it is worth taking this part of changing the laws of the audiovisual sector, the governance part, even though, as all parliamentary groups have already commented on different occasions, we must keep the debate alive in order to keep talking about other issues. And I end up positioning myself also in the law or the part that Congressman David Mejía just introduced. There are elements of his proposal that we share, that we could sign, if it is converted into a slogan. There are other things we don't agree with, but, come on, it's not a... we could talk, let's face it, about these issues. But, therefore, I do give him a little reflection, which would be worth it, perhaps, in the face of this absolutely essential consensus at this time, in this parliamentary time – it is essential the consensus of all the political forces – the reflection that can withdraw his proposal, turn it into ideas and that can also be converted into a job within the ponència. If you do that, I'll tell you that there are elements of your proposal that we're in favour of, huh? , which also convinces us, for example, that the directors of the media, the directors of the corporation, the directors of the television, the directors of the radio, are chosen for a public contest procedure, as you, too, put forward in your proposal. Actually, this is what we did to BTV. There was also Spanish Radio Television. We think it could also be done in our media, in the television and radio media. In any case, we will do our parliamentary work of monitoring and controlling what the audiovisual media do to the control committee, and here we are positioning ourselves on two laws and what we think is worth it, in this case, therefore, to approve for a large majority of this law and, if I may, Mr President, a position and close to the rest of the parliamentary groups: we will do the law and we will do it as soon as possible, as soon as possible. For our part, we would try to get all the procedures out of the way, to do it as quickly as possible, and I would like to see that this was also the understanding of the rest of the parliamentary groups. All the more; thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.39.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, they correspond the return to the deputy Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.40.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Mirin, Catalonia was a pioneer in Spain in the development of an audiovisual regulation that ensures that we have public media with quality content, with references to pluralism, but that more are included media, that we guarantee a system of communication of public communication media of truth, of plurality, that we understand that its mission is to guarantee the right to the information of the citizenry. For decades a modern audiovisual regulation has been built, which is old for this quality, and a control body from all over the Catalan audiovisual field in the style of other European countries. There have been, there have been, decades of building a national consensus, a thing that now sounds strange, national consensus extended to include structures, state structures, communication media structures and this regulator. Academic consensus, professional consensus and political consensus. In 2012, Convergence and Unity and the People's Party absolutely denied this consensus. I did so with one of those famous laws in which they deregulated this issue, in which they eliminated the vast majority of the necessary reforms of the governments of these organs, both of the public communication media and of the Audiovisual Council, and at that time many of us have already warned that the counter-reform of the law would have negative consequences for the same communication media, for its professionals, for the pluralism of our public media and for the survival of a structure of media that tried to hold the European level and marvel at what was going on in other places, where they were guided by this guarantee of the right to information of an important community of the city. It was a counter-reform that had clear objectives and achieved them. It was the Governmentalization of the Audiovisual Council; it was the Governmentalization of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans; it made that all the folds made more of a transmission correctness than it was that was wanted from the parties that were in government; it was rolled in some cases to break, with import, some of those things that had been built in thirty years of consensus, such as now the proper assumption or sustainability of the corporation, which was reduced in more than one third; it was loaded correspondents to the territory and to the world; it was removed or merged channels and emitters from the television and from the radio; it was removed by satellite from the world; it was reduced the contracting and the co-production of our audiovisual works; it was deleted from the television and from the radio; it was removed from the broadcasts by satellite; it was reduced the dispatch of my audio-visual works; it was removed from our commercial works; it was accepted that there was a message from the radioc... I don't know about the effects of that counter-reform. During these years, many and many of us have been trying to fight back that counter-reform, to avoid these counter-reform effects and to reverse many of these effects, if they are still reversible. And I want to highlight in particular the insistence and the constancy of the professionals of the corporation and also of the civil society of the Journalists' College, of the unions and of many companies in the audiovisual sector, who have been insisting that what we have is more public, more plural, more professionally managed, that we do not only reverse that counter-reform of 2012 but also go further and follow us in Europe in this matter. We're still stuck right now. We're, in fact, with a completely expired corporate board of directors. We have public communication means without a programme contract and, therefore, without any guarantee of continuity in those basic minimum resources that are necessary to make a public enterprise like lime. But you still have to say, let's take a little step. Let's start – I hope – on the path of that reversal that many and many of us have been insisting that we hold on for the past few years. We have done this with a text that is signed by all parliamentary groups and, therefore, for me one of the important reversals that begins today is also that of the breach of those consensuses that had been built for thirty years and that today we can try again to rebuild respect for our public communication media. And I am also very sincere about them: I believe that it is either that or we will not save our public communication media, or we will not actually get them back to doing the job that the very State of Catalonia and its mandate goes from this Parliament to the woman, the one they have to do. It is a text, which we are debating today, one of the two which we are debating, taken over by all the groups, which did not come to pass at the end of last parliamentary term, because it was the end of the parliamentary term, but our group is fighting from the beginning of this parliamentary term, because again all the groups are returning to sign and we can bring to debate the plenary in this parliamentary term. The truth is that I have made myself very heavy – Members and Members know it – with this subject, both pursuing the signatures and then pursuing it to the plenary. Some groups, however, that had signed this text were old-fashioned or retardant. And in time we went on to find out why: because in parallel we were negotiating a political agreement to fall, an agreement between Junts for Catalonia, Ciutadans, Esquerra Republicana and the Socialist Party, an agreement that we fought like "Frankenstein and shameful", an agreement that posed the logic of redistributing the cadres of the government of the Corporation and the Council of the Audiovisual between the parties and, therefore, with the logical party and not to recover those great country consensuss, all that we had signed and ready to proceed to the Parliament. That deal is broken and it's gone, this break, that we can be talking about this law today and we can be starting the process of this law. Keep it up, don't relax. At least I will not do it, and I again urge the professionals, the Journalists' College, the unions, the audiovisual sector in this country not to do it. There have been four games that have shown us that maybe they don't believe in everything that you say this text that we're starting to process today, because while I was still about to process they were doing absolutely the opposite of what we're claiming with this law locked in a closet. We won't relax. We want this law to be passed on, we want this law to be not perverted. We want them not to come down now, and we want them to be transmitted quickly, and we end up making the renewal that comes close to the government of the body and the government of the ACC from what you say this law and not again from a pact of cancellations. We won't accept downfalls on those essential points of this law. We will not accept reductions in the total reversal of those changes in that counter-reform made in 2012 for Convergence and Union and the People's Party. Therefore, return to the vast majority of Parliament at the time of approval who governs the corporation and the CAC. We will not accept reductions in the fact that we have to go further than this and that, therefore, we will have to complete with this text that we all sign and all say that there will also have to be an open process, that the people who are present to form part of the government of the corporation or of the direction of TV3 or of Catalonia Radio, will have to do it from an open process, with a project, and will have to assess their professional suitability to be in these places of direct travel. We will not accept reductions in the need to equip not only the rules of incompatibility but also the rules of remuneration, or what they cover, of the members of the governing councils of the corporation and of the ACC with the high offices of the Government of Catalonia. We will not accept reductions in other aspects that incorporate this text, such as the declaration of mandatory incompatibilities, such as the need for the compliment of the agreed collections and the participation of workers' representatives in important decisions of the company. We will not accept reductions in the need for a plan of participation and a plan of functions on TV3 and Catalunya Radio that allow for the structuring of the participation of workers in the business strategy. We will not accept reductions in the retention of better accounts to the Parliament's control committee of all the executives of the corporation, therefore, of TV3 and Catalunya Radio, nor will we accept reductions in the role of the Corporation's Contingent Adviser. And we will still accept fewer reductions in the compromise that we closed when we agreed on this text, July 2017, which is that this law must be dealt with quickly and diligently in the Parliament of Catalonia. Therefore, Members and Members of the rest of the parliamentary groups – I remind you, for it was not you who were at the end of the last parliamentary term signing this text–, not only do we commit ourselves to pulling this text forward, but it was not the text that was also part of the compromise, that the process must be swift, that it can be done without appearances, because it cannot be repeated to people the same thing that they have already done in the last parliamentary term; that it can be done with an urgent term of partial statements, and therefore return to the plenary as soon as possible, because we cannot allow ourselves to finish a legislative term without having approved this law and the consequences that must be derived from this law. To make that consensus agreement, we all gave up important elements. We will replant some of them in the processing of the law via partial statements. We've already announced them. We will reintroduce that we need to go beyond what is now the corporate government and introduce a model of co-management, and, therefore, to co-participate in the very governing body of the corporation, for both TV3 and Catalunya Radio, the workers and workers of the house, who believe that they are the ones who have the most accurate knowledge of how the public enterprise works in which they work and how it is possible to manage better the moments of good but also the moments of crisis. And we will also reintroduce that there must be social criteria in contracts and the need to compliment the working conditions and codes of ethics of the profession to companies that are contracted by TV3 or Catalunya Radio. And we insist on the City that they also do, that they make partial statements to this law and to that which they pose as differentially in the text that today they are also carrying to processing, to debate, in this House, I have translated partial statements to the law that all of us have signed, also you. Withdrawing the law they have maintained until today, the object of posing a medal I think I am dying today; removing it, it has no more sense, and transferring its contributions through partial statements. Well, with the constructive intention of taking the step from the beginning that does not allow any initiative on this subject to advance and because we understand that the most important thing is that we return to a strong, plural, leading and quality public media, and that reflects the plurality and complexity of our country, we congratulate ourselves that we reached that consensus at the end of the last legislature, that in this we have again succeeded in signing on behalf of all groups this text of law proposal and that we are starting this process today. It's a proposal that basically addresses corporate and CAC governance issues, but I think it can bring us back to those great consensus needed to save our public communication media. It will take a lot more to address, to do that, sure, but we have to start with some, and the main thing that was the tap, was the governance, of TV3 and of Catalunya Radio. We will be demanding, as I have said, in what is urgently being done and that we will not again close a legislature that will not renew the governing bodies of our public media or of the Catalan Audiovisual Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.41.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, it is the turn, now, of the MP Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.42.0	Good morning, all of you. Well, by the way, right? We'll find ourselves talking about this. When we moved on to the previous parliamentary group, they said to us: "There is a consensus text for amending the Law on audiovisual media and this will be immediate, there is a fantastic consensus. One year later, a year ago, the CUP was negotiating failed investments in which we had some of the priorities on the table, and one of these was the urgent need or the urgent need to renew the Corporate Governance Council. They know that for us there has been an important issue, we have expressed it with questions both to the President and to the Government. And the answers have always been very ambiguous. From our political perspective, the fronts of the Catalan public media are many: the Catalan audiovisual communication space, the defence of the public radio space, the technological modernization, the enveloping of the staff and the stoppage to hire new staff, the need, as has already been said, with arguments that we share, to equip ourselves with a programme contract, to be able to weave shared strategies between public television and public radio and that we do not have a television that seems more quickly RAC1 television and not a television and a radio that works jointly to weave communication strategies in the country. We have, as I said, in order to recover this minimum text, the consensus text that comes from the last parliamentary term, to amend the Law of the Audiovisual Council, but a consensus that we regret that Ciutadans did not share and that, while he did not do so now, he did so in September, he drew for the right to present his own proposal in accounts to enforce this minimum consensus, we insist, that, as has already been said, there are many groups that have made many resignations in order to be able to bring about renewal with broad, democratic, transparent consensus and that there is no substance of falling or returning favors for political parties. On the Ciutadans proposal, which we also need to talk about at this point, we can share some of the measures, and we wish that in the process of changing the law we can go into some of the proposals that the different groups sure that we will have, now, we will not accept that a time more Ciutadans do not only make statements that are vague, tendentious and disrespectful, but that it is insisting on deprecating the professional, deprecating international basic principles of journalistic ethics such as the texts of UNESCO, which, in its empty article, for example, has already been explained once, indicate that a good journalist defends the universal values of humanism, in particular, from the law, from the democracy to the law, from the law to the law itself, from the law on the law itself, from the law on the law itself, from the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law Well, perhaps in this way, what they will do is start to respect journalistic freedom, the professional freedom of these professionals of the house who have suffered so much with their slanders that they do not cease to insist day after day, for example, at the control session of the body. I ask them: please, they could make a more interesting contribution, for what it does to projects and proposals for public media, that it is not, for example, the PSC, the other day, to criticize that the public workers, in the dinar of Nadal that they make, in Catalonia Ràdio, cantin nadals with content of support to prisoners, that is that it is no longer that it is going to be said "look..., that you will be freed or that... ; it is that it is ridiculous, basically. But, well, we wanted to insist on this issue, because, we insist, we would like to be able to work from the consensus questions they have. We don't have much of a consensus, but we need to build it up. We, if you just voted the whole thing out, would give you support, and you'd be happy that you didn't walk away and retire. For years now, the de-government of the government council of public media is an emergency, we have already said. And we also knew, and we were very critical at the time, that there was a pact between Ciutadans, PSC, Esquerra and Junts for Catalonia to break down, to fall apart. And this also connects us with a question that is perhaps more general, that it is when we, from the CUP, talk about politics in autonomous logic, we also talk about a form of political doing that goes in the logic of this, of perpetuating lobbies of power, of distributing people with political notebooks, and not really looking for democratic, transparent and governed public media from a plural perspective and also a professional perspective. Through the process of this change, we hope that the government will not culminate in what we have appointed at the time to the public media they wanted to carry out. We believe, we insist, that debate and election on the members of the governing council and on its direction must be public, transparent and democratic. And we will work in the period of exams to find vast majority that make possible the participation so demanded and so claimed of the workers and workers of the corporation. We know, however, that the large majority are not the only guarantee to reach the objective that we seem to share; it is necessary to dispartitize, or to prevent the members of the government from coming up with a division, I insist, of falling from different groups. Let's not forget that Brauli's hooded board problem was not a small majority; he voted Convergence and Union, but also others, the PSC and the PP, who came out benefited from it getting falls and under-remembered – the problem was that it was not an adient profile: professional profiles, less supporters, who present a real project for public media. We already know that Brauli knows more about police and repression of social movements than public media. In this sense, and to end, we have said it many times, we will be a better and less professional council, introducing the participation of professionals. The Committee on Co-Management and its conclusions are worth reviewing and sharing in this process, which, we also insist, we share that it must be a fast process and that it can really open the doors to this urgent and necessary renewal of the government of public media. We therefore commit ourselves and wish that, when we debate this amendment of the law, we insist, we are not talking about the content and freedom of press of TV3 and Catalunya Radio journalists and we are really talking about what it is about how it really is possible that there are no party and political changes in the strategy and governance of the "body" and there is a professional perspective that gives response to the needs of public communication in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Ms. Andrea Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.44.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... allow me to make a preview. Mrs. Frías, one question: you're from Initiative, right? It is not from Podemos, nor « errejoner, is it from Initiative, is it not? It's just that sometimes, to come and teach lessons, you have to have memory. Do you know what this is? [[The speaker shows a full camera.]] Do you know what this is? This is the decree of appointment of Enric Marín, by which you, who were part of the tripartite, charged the two_thirds of the members' election and went to the path of the absolute majority to appoint the secretary of communication of the government of that moment, tripartite, as president of the governing council of the « body. Therefore, man, it is good for you to come and talk about the discounts, but it is that you were the first, with this decree, to go to the system of absolute majority. The lessons are very good, but the memory, you know, rabas de passas, which goes very well for this case. Okay, TV3, TV3, TV3. This issue is not new. Only by the determination and perseverance that we place in this Parliament, I believe that the independenceists should make us a little case and attention on this issue, because it is that we will continue, we will continue with determination and perseverance, until we achieve what they propose today: the depoliticization of the public media in Catalonia. Because, look, I've said many times that I feel nostalgia, and I feel it, for TV3 that used to be seen in all Catalan homes. And that's why I think TV3 should win the affections again. TV3 can't be more news than the very news it gives. TV3 cannot continue to be the center of the controversy for its high costs, the bottomless well, to which each government has been giving and giving money..., to TV3, for its subsistence, and being news for the ideological bias..., to which the governments have been making their partisan management. The director of TV3 cannot come to Parliament to tell us: "Wait a minute until I resign. Because if TV3 were not the independence minaret, one wonders exactly where their proclamations would be soft or where the CDRs would be promoted. That is why you have the vocation to continue to maintain the fierce party control of TV3 so that it remains the teleprocess, because it is the last thing they have left to try to get us into their dream of the process. It can't be that TV3 is not an example of neutrality; it should not only do it, but also seem it. And that's why we could come here to present, once and a thousand times, the evidence that shows that TV3 is not a neutral television or a television with a public service vocation. Because you choose TV3 hosts depending on whether you're paellas or going on a summer trip with the presidents of the Generalitat or whether you're hagiographers or not from the president of the Generalitat. You have TV3 directors who are ideologically aligned and who make political activism in favor of their thesis. That is why we will continue to ask for the depoliticization of TV3 and Catalonia Radio, from the public media in Catalonia. Because the public media in Catalonia, because TV3 should be cohesive. We asked you and you should be with us asking for TV3 to be cohesive, for TV3 to unite, not for TV3 to be permanently news, and for us to always come, permanently, to this plenary, is that I don't remember one where I haven't been in this rostrum talking about TV3. It should be something that brought us together, a space where we could share that plurality, that diversity that exists in Catalonia. Because, if not, they condemned TV3 to represent only a part of the audience and that the others cannot see the, that we have detonated it, that we only remember it in nostalgia, in the memories of that TV3 that, as the honourable Member said – in that you had good memory, Mrs Frías –..., it is true: it is that TV3 and the audiovisual sector in Catalonia have always been a reference in their programming and a reference in terms of the quality of their broadcasts; it is true, and I recognize that. But today we cannot say that on TV3 there are those points in common, those places according to which it owes..., to which we should promote as political leaders and which are seen in the public media of Catalonia, and that it should be the center of our motivation, the political leaders, and especially that of Constellera Artadi, which is always a pleasure to greet personally in this plenary. That is why we ask you: to make Catalonia's public media a meeting place; to make Catalonia's media an engine of cohesion; to make Catalonia Ràdio and TV3 win once again the affections of all Catalans, having a vocation of public service and that we all feel recognized, from the series, from the entertainment programs, from the humor programs, from the informative ones. Do not make TV3 your own, that of the independenceists, but our own, that of all Catalans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.45.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, and on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.46.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, deputies, deputies, so we're here today to talk about the Catalan corporation, but we don't talk about every ple, now Mrs Levi, we don't talk about every ple. But we're talking about the law today, aren't we? Indeed, today we are not political propaganda or we are not interested in each party to try to discredit a public media, but today we are talking, effectively, about the Law of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Media and, subsidarily also, about the Council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia. And, first of all, as I would like to begin with, it is a defense of the corporation, of TV3, of Catalunya Radio, of the public media in Catalonia, which means..., they meant in their day an adventure of country; that they also meant in their day a great consensus of country to create a communication medium in Catalonia, because they represented, represented and represented – misgrate, grow, or sometimes I seem to interpret, right? , that the annoyances – an indispensable tool of linguistic normalization in our country, when there is no means of communication that I emit in català or that you emit in català – now, as at least there is some private that I do too – when the disproportion is so immensely great among the communication media that they emit, whether public or private, in Spanish language in our country, and there was no way. TV3_has continued, it will be an indispensable tool for linguistic normalization. To defend also his workers and workers, professionals who permanently – permanently – are under pressure, even in demonstrations... We have seen..., we have not spoken in this House either, perhaps not remember some Members, but also of the attacks on TV3 professionals, who are not left to work freely, and who are journalists..., those who are journalists; obviously, there are many other professionals in the house who do a magnificent job, probably more technical or who are not to suffer their scars, right? But I also want to defend the professionals and journalists of the house. And defend them, as I said, from the interference they must suffer. And also defend TV3, especially, however, the corporation, as a motor of audiovisual in Catalonia. Because sometimes we don't pay attention to it or we don't give it enough, but actually TV3 is one of the audio-visual engines in Catalonia, and among all of us I would believe that we defend it. You're asking for the corporation. I think they all came out; therefore, I will try to pass quickly, because other Members and Members have commented on them, and it is good – and it is good –, I think, that we share them more and more, as in a very majority way. Actually, I need to make a warrant, and this is a job that is strictly ours, so to speak, isn't it? He's from the Parliament of Catalonia. And for us, therefore, it is important that we address the question of the Marc mandate. It is important – and this is not just ours – that the question of the programme contract is addressed, that the Member Pérez..., I will not joke about my age, but insistently the control committee insists on this question. And it's true, it's important to put the program contract back on the table. I will also tell you: the renewal of the government council is important. Here we may not agree, but the professionals had asked us, in the first appearance we made of the control committee, immediate renewal of the governing council. Because the situation is not only of lapse, but of precariousness of the same council, where there are now four of the six members and there is no presidency, we should all be concerned, for the sake of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. So, like at least my group does: the renewal of the governing council is an absolutely important issue and that we have as a priority also, and let's not forget. We share it, too, huh? , with the workers and in the appearance that was made to the same control commission. The reform of the laws, which is actually the one that now deals with the two laws – and now I will mention a little more concretely in the two. That it's true that it's probably late, but it's also true that we've also begun an unusual legislature. Indeed, this was the July of the 17th, this first agreement that we had to carry in the plenary; I was not, in that ponència, but in soc conneixador. And, therefore, we could say: « Hosti, this is July of the 17th and we are at the generation of the 19th. And that's strictly true. But we also need to remember that the first proposal of the law, the first debate to the totality that we had in this Parliament since July 17th was October 24, 2018, is to say, yes..., not up to three_months– not up to three_months. Why? For a political situation of absolute abnormality, it is to say: of the 155, of intervention of the Generality, of the non-publication of the decree of name of the government, that there was no government, until there is government there are no legislative commissions... So, in fact, since July, many months have passed, but until October 24th of the 18th there was no debate on the whole in this Parliament. We must not be aware of the political abnormality we live in. Is that supposed to have been done before? Sense dubte – Sense dubte. It has been materially, say, impossible, or very difficult too. We cannot see that there is no other part of the debate. But, said that, for we have the two laws on the table. I think in the first..., well, the first chronologically, diguessim, right? The town of Ciutadan, which before Mr. Mejia exposed, we have things in common, everyone said. I think we share it – not on the other hand, I also have to say – but we have presented a statement to the totality, effectively, at the expense, therefore, that they may or may not withdraw the proposal from the law, right? , your group, but we've presented the whole thing to you. In the first place, why don't we share Ciutadans's strategy – I must say –, always try to run a little more, present the initiative to us and say: "This is what we presented before and it is done because Citizens have been tightening up for Parliament to do it, when we were working on a proposal all groups, we had signed it... In fact, after Mrs Ribas, first Mrs Albiach, still, when she was a spokesman for the committee... It was the first things we did as a committee, wasn't it? Therefore, we were all working, but Ciutadans presents his own to say: "This is thanks to Ciutadans. Clearly, and like we're a little bit tired, because we've found ourselves all together, so that's why we're partly presenting the message to the totality. Also for a question of this plurality and that there is no control of the Government, which, of course, says it Citizens surprise us and would say even that it bothers us a little, when they have approved that they want 155 to intervene directly on public media. Then they speak of plurality and that they should not be submissive to the government. And they approved you to Extremadura the other day: "This means the control of Catalan public television by representatives of the state, textually, eh? They call on the state representatives to take charge of Catalan public television. And then they say, "We don't want any government to have anything to do with public television, neutrality, and I don't know what. Clearly, up to a point where he's surreal, with all his esteem, I'm telling you. And, therefore, when you are asked for intervention, some ask that you are so TV3 and work with normal people, say... [[Funnel veils]] – you don't; no, no, you don't; this was the People's Party –, and I'm quoting it among comets, huh? Textually, and they call for the intervention of public media, and then they come to say that you are the adals of plurality and that there is no control... man, it seems curious. And there are things that you don't share, right? , from the point of view of neutrality, that in his proposal of law..., I will quote it; I do not want to enter the content, but it is that it was very thanks to me, right? , because in his proposal they say that they establish incompatibilities and speak that no one can be part of the governing council, "who participates in political parties, trade unions or entities that can be considered interest groups that aim to influence the decisions of the legislature or positions of confidence, if any. And a little further, in the same article, they say: "It will be understood that this person is affected by these causes of ineligibility and with people who maintain a family relationship up to the fourth degree of consanguinity. That's to say, you're saying..., because a fourth degree of inbreeding means that the spouses of the fellows..., or so on, if one has a spouse of the so that he has campaigned in a union, we pose in the case that he is of the UGT, in his place of work, already invalidates a possible candidacy of who, right? Clearly, only the lack of people who have lived in a grave for the last two years and who have no family and no one has participated in an entity that has an interest in changing the political situation of the country was there. It's something I really appreciate, isn't it? , because it really is, as Mr. Pérez would say, of northern dawn. It's amazing, isn't it? All that was missing was that he had to be in a grave. Therefore, for all this we have presented to the totality, effectively, because we believe that it is not the way, that you can present papers to the joint law and that we should debate them and we can take them forward. And to the joint law, as everything has been said, I think I'm a little short of adding. So actually, we want to return to the criteria of the year 2007, we want to return to the criteria of qualified majorities of three parliamentary groups... It has been mentioned before; we absolutely agree – absolutely agree. And from here it will be necessary to talk about other questions, too, that are on the table. Mrs Ribas has not mentioned any; Mr Mejía also, because they are part of the body, so to speak, of his proposal; we also have the question of the contest, which is in part that Ciutadans raises, which is also important for us; there are also questions, for example, of the councillor who is also important for us... That is to say, there will be a lot of fears that we will have to go first, among other things, because the proposal of the law..., which sometimes says: "No, this is the document to approve... Well, even if it is not clear, and how many members are there, isn't it? , from the board of governors. So, we still have work to do to be able to, so, finish spinning first and hold the law of the corporation that all citizens deserve. Therefore – and I finish – for us today is an important step. We believe that what we do today, sense of doubt, has transcendence for the country, is necessary for our public media, because without public media there is no democracy. And I end up insisting on the vital need, I would say, to defend public media, and especially, therefore, how we are in Catalonia, TV3, Catalonia Radio and the media of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. Because it's about politics and it's about depoliticizing, and the media must be incisive, whether we like it or not. Another thing that is different is the de-government, which I actually think there should be an important consensus here for everyone. But there's a certain neutrality speech that I can't share, because the communication media by definition don't have to be neutral; they have to influence, they have to bring light, they have to inform, they have to explain what's going on, they have to mull. Actually, that reminds me, doesn't it? Celaya's poem that spoke in this case of poetry, right? « I curse poetry, conceived as a cultural luxury of the neutrals. I curse poetry that doesn't take sides until it stains itself. So, effectively, politics, communication, journalism, must take part, they must inflate, they must inform, they must be grasping the pulse of society, of claims, sense of doubt: it is what they must do. And there's a dangerous speech of false neutrality that I think that what you want is to misrepresent, or that I think that what you want is that they can't, the media, do the job that they correspond to as guarantors of journalism and information and also, no doubt, one of the pillars of democracy. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.47.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Deputy Josep Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.48.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Secretaries, Members, Members, Guests, Workers, today we begin in this Parliament what has long been a necessary reform of audiovisual legislation. « It was about time! Some say, but they say it from the false normality that we don't just want to accept it but to put it in evidence whenever it comes. That this reform has not yet been carried out yet has not been due to lack of interest or desirousness, even though some people want it to be seen this way. Look, things have happened in this country, let's just say, in these last two years, as at least. There has been a path to a full self-determination of obstacles, and before that, before and after that, there has been a state that, instead of giving a democratic response to the conflict that the legitimate government has undertaken, has unlawfully applied Article 155, has called for elections to Parliament to win them – but lost them at the polls – and after that state has tried to win them by force to force the law that you so much lay in your mouth: it has prevented three investments, violated and violated individual and collective political rights, violated and violated the autonomy of this Parliament, repressed and repressed people and collectors. It was not possible to form governments until the middle of the year to have made elections, and this same state has prevented, in this government, there are the people who decided Catalans with their votes on 21 December 2017. All this time and until now the situation of the government's imprisonment and exile has been maintained, to which the people of Catalonia have never withdrawn their trust. And now we're starting a trial that's a trial to everyone we voted for in the October 1st referendum, a trial to democracy. We will not tire of remembering them - ho, of insisting that all that has happened, that is happening, is not harmless, years contrary, because this is the playing ground – the playing ground crude – where we are supposed to do politics, where the government has to govern and this Parliament has to legislate. This is not institutional normality, it is illegitimate exceptionality. This is the context, therefore, in which today we are discussing the processing of two legislative proposals on governance of public communication media. We have what the Ciutadans Group has presented, in solitary, and what we are presenting together all the groups of this chamber. It can't be very perceptive to see what is most appropriate to push forward the changes that need to be pushed: if we've already agreed on a starting point, let's go this way, that we're going better and faster, that we already need – I think we also agree on this. That's why you don't quite feel that a parallel law proposal has been submitted for a single group, when we already have one that likes more consent. That's why we've presented a totality statement – well, that's why and for more. Mirin, the content of his proposal, of Citizens, can perfectly pose him during the processing of the law; what is unacceptable, however, is his preamble – and the title –, his portrait of the situation of the Catalan public media. You speak of "the growing politicization of public communication media and that they are instruments of agitation and party propaganda. If it wasn't because we already know what they're trying to say and they're saying it more in front of us, I'd have to give them the reason. I would give the reason if we applied this to you, because it is you who constantly politicize public media and use them as instruments of agitation and propaganda. Of course, you are so skilled as to qualify what they don't like – from TV3 to say ‘agitation and propaganda tool', ‘teleprocesses,' ‘telePuigdemont,' ‘teleCDR' – is the last contribution to its lexicon –, [[relays]] You who are so qualified or disqualified, in change, to Vox, only see him a little populist. [[Rialles.]] The selected character of your language also gives you the details. You paint the Catalan public media as you paint them to win votes in Spain, and now also to rule with Vox in Andalusia and, so they can, in Spain. What interests them most about TV3 and Catalunya Radio is that they are their poster of electoral propaganda in Spain, which is why the paint of the color they like most, which is that of demagogy. So yes, in this sense we can say that TV3 and Catalonia Radio are politicized, because you politicians see politics all the time, and all the time it's all the time: in humorous games, in documentaries, in fiction series, in Super3 information, in cartoons... They don't come out of this dynamic, until the PSC turns them around; I mean, I said it to MP Natalia Sánchez: now also the noodles that the workers of Catalonia Radio sing, every year from many years ago, are also a reason or proof of media politics. You, those who want to apply the 155, are also those who do not raise their eyes, years against, those who give support to the Government of the People's Party while the political manipulation of Spanish Television was so obvious that it was the same workers who denounced it. The Spanish Television journalists protested, personally, to the social media, and with their clothing when they went on screen, but the Spanish Television Information Board also denounced to the European Parliament the manipulation and censorship imposed by the direction of information. And it's not just manipulation and censorship in the information about the October 1 referendum, continuous manipulation and censorship. Certainly, they now say that the European Parliament is debating allegations of TV3 manipulation, but do not explain who makes them, these accusations: you. [[Rialles.]] Citizens and the PP. What they don't explain is that the TV3 Professional Council at this session is who defended Catalan television in this forum – they don't explain that. This Spanish TV manipulated, manipulative, was also his television, his television model while they were the crossover of the Popular Party. And while in Spain, it is the Spanish Television Information Council that denounces the very leaders of television, here in Catalonia, who is censored by the TV3 Professional Council for their unacceptable attitude towards the media professionals? Yes, indeed: the leader of your party, Mr. Rivera. Censored for his entrepreneurial attitude during the interview with TV3 journalist Lydia Heredia – or that he tried to make it to her – and for repeated statements against the media professionals. Look, we've gotten used to you assigning all the evils of this country—even all the evils of Spain—to independence. And his attacks on public television and radio always have this leitmotif. That's because they're temporarily interested in it. But his problem with TV3 is of the essence, it's of model; I would almost say it's because of the fact that it exists. You would prefer that TV3 and Catalunya Radio do not exist – except that one day you can control them, of course. Its problem is model, because already in its founding manifesto as a party already spoke of – I quote: «... the increasingly scandalous pedagogy of hatred that spread the media of the Catalan government against everything Spanish. I remember that his foundational manifesto is from 2005, and they already give the same as they have now. Everything they attributed to independence had already passed, according to you, when neither the State nor the Constitutional had been brushed, long before the independence process. What they're asking is not politics, it's the model. The problem they have is the conception of public media, and in this, as in so many things, the distance between you and us is sidereal. Constable Artadi said in this rostrum, last July, with these words: "TV3 is not an anthropological television, and Catalonia Radio is not a minority radio. And this has been so long ago because they were born to provide information, culture, education and quality entertainment, essential supplies for a freer, more active society. In short, what the adviser gave us is that for us the model is a national television and radio, the national television and radio of Catalonia, not a regional television, a costume television, as are the vast majority of the so-called autonomous televisions of the Spanish State. This is what you would want for TV3: that you do not explain Catalonia to the world and the world from a Catalan optics. A television, and a radio, also, without national perspective, a television and a radio of regional scope and regional perspective. What bothers them the most is that audiences also reflect the difference between a national television, such as TV3, and autonomous television. We see, for example, the audiences of each television and the place they occupy in the preferences of the viewers of each territory; the data are from this 2018 that has just ended. TV3, 14_per_cent of audience, first, leader in Catalonia – certainly, Mrs Ribas, leader of audience and quality already is, TV3, it's not what you need to be again: it is already, eh? –; Canal Sur, 8,7_per_cent, 4th; Televisio de Galícia, 10_per_cent d'audència, 4th; Euskal Telebista, 8,3, 4th; Aragó Televisio, 8,4, 4th; Castilla la Mancha Televisio, 5,7, 5th; Telemadrid, 4,6_per_cent, sisena; Televisio de Canàries, 5,2_per_cent, sisena; Astúries Televisio, 5,5_per_cent, sisena; IB3– Balears –, 2,5_per_cent, septena; Múrcia Televisio, 2,9_per_cent, novena, and At Punt, Valencia Country, 0, 0,3_per_cent, novena, but here is an asterisk because it emits again from October month after having carried it to the masters of the PP and its members. And today the relief of the magnificent quality indexes that TV3 has, or plurality reports, that place it where it really is and not where you want it to be seen. We've done it many times, and it's already evidence that for one ear they come in and for the other they come out, and in any case, they only use these data, previously manipulated at their convenience. In short, it turns out, therefore, that the only television that has a national vocation is the one that has the most audience and the only one that is the leader in its field. And, by bad luck for you, it turns out to be public television in Catalonia. [[Widow's remorse.]] So look, our model is this: that of national television. And we'll continue to defend him, protect him and empower him. And now it's time to do so with the reform of audiovisual laws. We believe that we need to improve, that we can improve: we need to improve corporate governance, yes, and approve the new audiovisual law in order to face the challenges of the future in a sector that is in constant innovation, but what you propose is not a better one, it is a goal to the totality of the Catalan public media. That's why our goal to the totality of your law proposal. We pass, the proposal of the joint law; we pose - here, som-here. Because I can solve it as quickly as I can, and it seems like that's what we all agree on. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.49.0	Thank you, Congressman. Subsequently, and as a reminder has been presented to the totality of the return of the proposed law of depoliticization measures of the organs of the government of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Media, the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, author of this initiative, has a turn now to position itself to respect this totality, of five minutes. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.50.0	Thank you, President. I'll do it from the escó, quickly. Just one point, Mr Riera: the public television model that Ciutadans wants is a television model in which the assembly of the Catalan society is attached, not like what you have, which is only half of the Catalans. That said, to announce to the President that, as Ciutadans has the will of consensus on this question and it seems that there is, despite the last intervention, that, if not, it has been interesting – as a parentage of irony – how we clearly need to change the law as quickly as possible and how we want this plurality to be claimed not only from our group, but from other groups as soon as possible, we will withdraw the bill's proposal and in any event make partial statements to the joint proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.51.0	All right. Thank you, Members. So, if this proposal is withdrawn from the law, then the other proposed amendment law of Law 2/2000, of 4 May, of the Council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia, and since there is no totality in this law proposal, this legislative initiative can continue its processing. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the competitiveness of the Catalan economy]] [[302-00047/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the seven and the motion following the question to the Government on the competitiveness of the Catalan economy, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose it, has the word Mr Santi Rodriguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.52.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, advisors..., well, we present this post-interpellation motion, when we talk about the inquiry, we made a first reference that economic growth is important, at the time of guaranteeing the welfare of people or at the time of guaranteeing the welfare of a society. And we pointed out, in that question, that precisely the competitiveness of the economy of our company, Catalonia, and to be positive, there were some risks and, therefore, the risks to economic competitiveness also entail risks to the welfare of the company. This was, in essence, the object of the inquiry. This is also, in essence, the object of the motion that we have presented. And, in this case, we point out some generic proposals... – there are no concrete measures either – generic on aspects that have an impact on the competitiveness of the economy. The first one. Precisely, with regard to a report that came out a few days before the inquiry that we had presented, they say that in Catalonia, which we are leaders in many things, we are also in taxation. And therefore, this is a leadership that we do not share. Surely there are other groups that this leader wants to strengthen. I believe that, at this very session, we will see another young man in whom, precisely, the contrary is called for, which is to strengthen the leadership in taxation, to increase taxation even more to the Catalans. So what we're proposing is, precisely, contrary. Because, precisely, and about, let's say, the tax par excellence, the first of the taxes we pay all taxpayers, the income tax, precisely, it's Catalans, we're Catalans the most affected of all Spain. Why? So because taxpayers who declare less than €30,000 in the year– who are certainly 80_percent of taxpayers–, Catalans are the ones who pay more than all of Spain. And, therefore, we believe that it is worth trying to reverse this situation. A second element, important and which brings together various aspects of the same motion, is related to legal certainty and political stability. The political adventures to which the former Government, and it seems that the current one, also wants to lead us do not bring anything positive to the competitiveness of our economy. We remembered..., not really the young man – so I compromised myself in the interrogation – but we remembered that more than 5,000 companies have left, they have treated their social worker in Catalonia. But after a year of September 6th and 7th, and the show we've been living here and the declaration of independence and everything that's happened, in Catalonia fewer companies were created, in a name of 1,176, than the previous year. And that also meant, of course, a significant reduction in the constitutional capital of nine companies. There has also been a significant fall in foreign investment, and there have also been risks and risks in the tourism sector, not only in relation to internal tourism, to tourism from the rest of Spain, but also in relation to international tourism. And in this sense, last August, there were 5 countries– Germany, the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada and Austria –, which represent 30_percent of the countries issued by tourists coming to Catalonia, which recommended prudence at the time of coming to Barcelona, because of the political conflict there could be. Other aspects, also related to competitiveness, the improvement of the quality of exports. And, in this sense, we pointed at three elements, let's say it, therefore, eh? , with this better quality of exports: to recover levels of investment in research lost in the past years, to improve innovation and also university policy, more resources, less taxes and more autonomy. I think we'll have an opportunity to discuss a young man in this sense in our own plenary. And other aspects, to finish the job, the permanent formation of the workers to improve their skills and adapt it to the new needs of the labor market; democratic reptes, approach the democratic repte, keep it present, bear in mind that we have a weakened and therefore we have to work to try to correct it, and then major investments, both in teaching as in health, that form part, also, of the indicators of competitiveness of any health. Therefore, the object of the motion is precisely [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , aim at the best of the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.53.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.54.0	... – I finish, President – to point to the improvement of economic competitiveness as a fundamental part of the improvement of the well-being of Catalans. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.55.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, has the first word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.56.0	Okay. This young man is a species of all revolution and – I'm not angry with the deputy, but – Frankenstein, because with one hand he wants to do one thing and with the other hand he wants to do the counter. Miri, you have a very clear speech, which is the same one that you are making, for example, in Andalusia, which, about supposed reductions in tax pressure to the popular and middle classes, which end up producing tax cuts to who else you have, and, above all, defending private interests and, above all, defending the interests of the renters and defending the interests of the high returns. Because, of course, for example, you, at the first point, state: "No, it is necessary to reduce the tax on income to those who have lower returns of thirty_ thousand euros. Okay. You do not explain that this affects the total of the taxpayers; but clearly, in the end, you say: "Reduce the total number of trams and simplify the tax. Listen, if we already know what that means, that means reducing the progressivity by reducing the tax on income. Therefore, if you, once more, as you have done, for example, with the agreement of the government of Andalusia – certainly, infamous agreement of the government of Andalusia, in this case, with Vox –, what you end up doing is, once more, to plant down the people who have the most. For example, among other things, also, what you plant is to lower the tax on assets. So, the asset tax, which, for example, does not accurately engrave the popular classes and, in this case, does not make them middle class. Therefore, of course, you are proposing a tax reform, in the sense that you defend, that it is the people who are made, those people who enter the most, therefore, the class interests that you are accustomed to, as always, defending, that it is the same people who defend Andalusia or that it is the same people who defend, for example, with the change of government in Brazil, Mr Bolsonaro, that, apart from being a racist and a masclist, besides also, defending the interests, in this case, of the upper classes and of the surrender classes of Brazil. So, the same goes all the way. The second point... they're also specialists, that's not just what they do, but they're specialists in seeing the impacts on the Catalan economy, that's what I'm saying, isn't it? , as my avia says, "see the ball on the other's eye, but don't see the big one in the right eye. Because, look, I won't deny that I'm sure that the unilateral path, which has been an authentic disarray, which has followed, in some moments, like, for example, the past year, the independence majority, has had an impact on the Catalan economy. Surely, less than the demagoguery that some have done what was said to have done some others, but it has obviously had an impact. But, well, I also believe that it has had an impact, for example, for sure, on the repression images of '1 October, in this case, which provoked the Spanish police in the streets of Catalonia. And that's what you -- and I made a note of it in this sense -- and you sure as hell don't want to talk about it. But, of course, when you're talking, for example, right? , of legal certainty and of abandoning projects involving the breakdown of the legal order... Miri, I agree, but let's start, for example, to stop stealing. And, in any case, there are also reports – such as, for example, in this case, BBVA – explaining that corruption and illegal financing of political parties... – for example, you, who are specialists, I will not mention all the cases of corruption that you have, because, but at least, I eat the two minutes that I have left – but you, for example, are specialists in this. And, miri, I quote a report from the BBVA, which said: "The low institutional quality and corruption translates into lower productivity, higher growth and lower wages than a country like the Spanish State could have with the technological capacity and the human capital available. So if we talk, we talk about everything. It is obvious that the unilateral way has an impact, but it is obvious that the images of repression also have, and it is obvious, no? , that the corruption of which you are the absolute leaders also has an impact on the Catalan economy and the Spanish economy. And then I also told her that she's a Frankenstein for two reasons: the first, because there is, I would say, high doses of cynicism. It's like you're talking about improving the conditions of the labor market after what you've done with labor reform... I mean, it's a drag. Because you, basically, what you've done is a downside, it's an internal devaluation through wages with the application of labor reform. So..., or continue, now, present us... you have put yourself in crisis... I recommend an article today by Mr Coscubiela, who publishes, we explain how you have put in crisis the Spanish social security, basically, from the labor reform. And then, of course, at that point it is very difficult to vote against it. I say to him: "Yes, I will vote in favour. But, of course, you're asking for major investment in the public health and education system, if I agree, but explain how this is done. That is to say, you are raising tax cuts to whom you have the most, so that the Generality has fewer resources, but at times, they want to..., the whole youth are..., I have not entered, as it is very generic, it is difficult, but I think we are talking about hundreds of millions of euros what you propose in this case. I don't know what I mean by how much you want to improve, in this case, the reversal of salvation and teaching in Catalonia. I agree, but how is that paid? Aren't you going to tell me you want to make a deficit and a debt? I guess not, because you've always been authentic about this, haven't you? , addicts [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] In this case, I would say zero deficit. So, so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.57.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.58.0	...if you don't want to do this, will you explain to me how you're doing everything you're proposing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.59.0	Thank you, Congressman. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Member of Parliament, José María Cano, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.60.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, good afternoon to all. Today we are discussing a motion that talks about competitiveness. When we talk about competitiveness, we refer to the ability of the Catalan economy to achieve profitability in the market, in relation to its competitors. A competitive economy leads to economic growth, which allows for job creation. And, from the point of view of the Administration, when we talk about competitiveness, we talk about the ability to provide a favourable environment for businesses, with the ultimate goal of improving the well-being of citizens. The motion attempts to provide guidelines on how to improve competitiveness and our economy, within the competence of our autonomous community. Most are very generic contributions, without too much concreteness, and in our view, it does not clearly identify which is the main burden of the Catalan economy. And it is that the main burden, the main problem that the Catalan economy has is an insolidary and irresponsible government. There is no other example of government in a region of Europe doing what process politicians do. Only you are able to go against your own economy. And, nowhere in the world, the vice president threatens to paralyze the economy, as Mr Junqueras did. And, in Catalonia, unfortunately, it is not enough to ask us what kind of policies we have to implement to improve the competitiveness of our economy. The question is what the process politicians have to stop doing – what they have to stop doing – in order not to be the worst enemy of companies, in order not to be the worst enemy of the autonomous, of those who with great effort raise the blind every day. In five_minutes I don't have enough time to detail all the barbarities, but I'll comment on some of them. Thousands of companies have fled, and you are still pursuing the same goal that led to your departure. Companies have sent a very clear message to them, but you are deaf and still obsessed with hitting democracy, and not only have you expelled companies, but investors are also fleeing. Catalonia has been a year and a half of a free fall from foreign investment, and this fall is the result of the paralysis, delay or cancellation of investment decisions, in the face of the legal insecurity and political instability that they provoke. On the other hand, hundreds of millions of euros are spent with the sole objective of discrediting Spain at international level. Don't you realize that telling lies and talking bad about Spain is talking bad about Catalan companies, to which you are harming? And, in addition, in a boast of extreme insolidity, they accuse the rest of the Spaniards of stealing from them: the famous fiscal deficit. Apart from being a fallacy, because the figure given by his own former economic advisor, Mr Mas-Colell, was denied, that same reasoning could be made between provinces, between regions, between cities, between rich neighborhoods and the most modest, even I tell you that between the floodgates of my stairway. Of course, of course, it brings the most income, that is called fiscal progressiveness, and not accepting those basic rules is called insolidarity. Look, taxes are paid by people, not territories, and you are not looking for arguments to improve the financing model, you are looking for excuses, as in everything, for your goal of separating Catalonia from the rest of Spain and getting the one out of Europe. For the number of times I heard yesterday and today's fiscal deficit I am convinced that that is your current team order to try to add followers to your cause. The order is to be insolidary. Are they not really aware that these statements are attacking the main market of our companies? Catalan companies sell more to Aragon than to all of France. They call thieves who buy 40_per_cent of the production. Does this help to improve competitiveness? I'd say clearly no. Another topic. Do they really feel proud and do not condemn their entities, such as the ANC, to encourage boycotts of the products of the rest of Spain? This vile act, in addition to being moral and ethically despicable, harms our economy and is of enormous inculturation. The vast majority of Spanish products carry some component manufactured in our autonomous community. And I could keep setting examples, but look, gentlemen of the government, competitive economy we have. We will have it until unfortunately it is loaded, but what we do not have in Catalonia is a competitive government, and that is precisely what the Catalan economy needs, a competitive and competent government commensurate with the efforts made by our workers, our companies and our self-employed. We have tabled amendments aimed at improving coordination with the rest of the State, also emphasizing the need to invest in quality education as a guarantee of equal opportunities, and we thank the colleagues in the PP for having accepted them. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.61.0	Next, and to fix her position, she has the first word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.62.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Mr. Rodriguez, no offense, but he presents us here today, you, a cheating young man, a demagogic young man, a young man who says so colloquial "say what I say and not what I do, right? Because what he's proposing is all the opposite of what the People's Party did when it was in the state government, presided over by Mr. Rajoy, all the opposite. Miri, we can't agree on taxation. We can't agree, because if we don't have a powerful, just and progressive, tax system that pays the most they have and the most they earn, it's deteriorating public services, which is what happened in the Spanish State. I'll give him some data, if he doesn't remember them. The European Union's medium-term recovery is 41,3_percent of GDP. Here we are around 34. We're never up to 35. If we want to assemble those countries with Denmark or France or Belgium, they are around 47. That's to say, we don't have a very high, or very low, tax pressure for much of what you say. What needs to be done is to increase the fiscal pressure on those who are not paying at these times. Companies, because, we remind you, the majority of the fiscal pressure comes from physical persons and not from capital and, therefore, what we should do is, yes, yes, increase the fiscal pressure to return capital and also to those businesses that are the ones that evade more taxes. Therefore, we cannot agree with this proposal, which will probably then be voted on jointly with the Government of the Generality, because they think the same as you, in that you have always agreed with the People's Party and those who at these times, therefore, have the Government of the Generality. Then, of course, some more traps. Talk about research, science, development... Home, what you said, from 2009 to 2017 there was the largest retail in science, 20,000_million euros, 40_percent of the assumption of science was retailed while Mariano Rajoy's government led the government of the State. Do you know how many scientists and investigators left the state? Eleven thousand. Eleven thousand investigators who will have to leave. And I don't know if it will ring the date of June 14, 2013, but it produced the greatest manifestation of scientists throughout the State, five thousand scientists planted before the Ministry of Economy to deliver the Charter for Science. Do you know who got them, Mr. Rodriguez? None; no one attended to those five thousand scientists, the greatest manifestation of the history that has occurred in the State and it did not get them absolutely none. They went to the Congress of Deputies and there, therefore, they attended. Your Science Charter was put to the vote and approved with all votes in favour except those of the People's Party. Listen, don't come here and give us lessons from what's to be done in Catalonia. What obviously has to be increased resources for research, but it's that you didn't do it there when you had the opportunity to set an example... So, man, listen, these data give them the council of state scientists, that's to say, they're not from the Socialist Group. So you can't give us so many lessons. In college, which also gives us a few..., man, they have reported, in those years, 20_percent of the public investment, 1,900_million euros in universities. And here you talk about... – I'm very grateful – governance, autonomy, finance. Look, listen, for some things, the University Act needs to be changed. Is the PP ready to do it? Why, in those years when you ruled and we had Minister Wert leading the universities, do you know what were the legislative changes made by the PP government? Do you know who they are? Two. One, the decree that allowed us to increase taxes, and here Catalonia raised its hand and we were the first, world champions, to increase taxes: 66_per_cent. But I allowed a decree from Minister Wert, People's Party. And do you know what other decree he made to modify or improve some aspect in the field of universities? Adopt a decree that allowed to have degrees of three years. These are the great legislative changes made by the People's Party in the field of universities, and there was an absolute majority! If you really believe that college can be modernized, as you say, man, so you could have done. And, on the other hand, they make these penosal modifications that haven't improved the university and above us put the repositioning rate at 0_per_cent, which has made it lower the university seedlings and we have at these times a very important deficit and a very important aging of the seedlings. Of course, I, who came here to give us lessons, so honestly, they don't get along. And, therefore, he makes a trick proposal, because yes, there are many points that we can vote for, yes, of course, they are so generic: more resources for research, better university... Yes, I'm surprised, but it's just that you, when you have been able to prove what you believe in university or research, have done just the opposite. So, honestly, she's a very cheating, very demagogic young man. Last but not least, in these seconds, man, you're talking about tourism. So, you know what I'd say, me? That you do not promote Catalanophobia, because part of our resources that come from tourism come from the internal market. So, you speak well of Catalonia and Catalans, and maybe we'll get better...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.63.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.64.0	...in the tourist sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.65.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, has the word Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.66.0	Well, so, this young man largely focuses on the idea of improving competitiveness through exports. The reality, Mr. Rodríguez, is that the increase in the competitiveness of the export sectors is more likely to be the result of the fall in wages and the reduction of seedlings than of innovation and the emergence of indigenous and capdavant sectors in the international market. The same International Labour Organization warns that the negative effects of wage devaluation on domestic demand are greater than the positive effects on export sectors. The dice speak for themselves. The development of capitalism during these years has led to social and economic collapse and to societies, ultimately, each time more authoritarian. This proposal develops and deepens this economic model, the prop of capital reproduction, an aggressive, authoritarian, exploiter and highly possessor of the collective wealth. It is for these reasons, precisely, that we want to get rid of this system, that we want to self-determine ourselves, because in the same way that it is intended to deceive the people with the causes of the crisis, blaming the working families who had been in debt to acquire a habitat – remember that "they have lived above their possibilities", now what is to be believed is that recovery is on the way. The truth, however, is that we find ourselves before a devastated social reality. Yesterday in Carles donated many data, I do not repeat: every time there are fewer rich and poorer every time the poorest. If we consider differences by gender, all the indicators tell us that we are in a more unfavourable, less income, more risk of social exclusion and poorer situation. We do believe in redistribution of wealth. And say that in their proposal for a resolution they say to the people who make outside their home, to whom they despair in the past of hospitals, to those who after a eight-hour day cannot pay their logger, to whom the Catalan economy from 2014_has shown signs of positive growth, which has allowed that economic crisis to stand in the way. And they're still on, huh? "It is important to maintain the pace of economic growth. At the cost of what? Whose coast? We're asking each other. To gain competitiveness based on exploiting the working class? , based on dispossessing us of our rights? Mr. Cano, this is an absolutely inconclusive matter. We're still defending a life...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.67.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.68.0	...that's worth living.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.69.0	Thank you. Then, and on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Antoni Castellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.70.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Group of the European People's Party presents us with a motion on the competitiveness of the Catalan economy, with all the generic measures, and let's start with, ras e court, which is a great act of cynicism. And I say it's a great act of cynicism because it's precisely the People's Party government these past few years and the powers of the State that have been the great destabilizing element of the Catalan economy. Actually, they tried and they didn't get out. That's why I'm saying it's an act of cynicism. The growth of the Catalan economy has been very solid since 2015, and it has been to bear the burden of the Spanish State, and it has been unfortunate, to say the least, this attempt to destabilise the Spanish State. You now present us with a series of measures to strengthen economic growth, let me 'hodir so, looking, I grow, whitewash the irresponsibility of the previous government of the People's Party. And we give them from our group we won't bleach them. We're making a statement to the totality of this motion. You defend the argument that Catalonia's self-determination project has been a problem for Catalonia's economy, and I deny them the major. In fact, the recovery period coincides from 2015 onwards with an independent majority in the Government of Catalonia and in this Parliament, and throughout all this time, the Catalan economy has grown and strengthened. And if we don't go to the most complex year, that of the October 1 referendum, the infamous year for you, 2017, the data are very toxic: we end 2017 with an increase of 3.4_percent of GDP, over 3.1 Spanish. The trade balance in 2017 has a surplus of 12_per_cent. During 2017 we ended up with a 13,4_per_cent rate, obviously, even in the euro zone of 9_per_cent, but very much under the 17.2 of the Spanish State. In 2017, foreign investment..., we ended up with a balance of 3.000 million foreign investment, with a half of 4.000 million in the five-year period, which is how the phases are analyzed, the time series of foreign investment. And the Financial Times, in fact, continues to recommend Catalonia as the best region in the European continent to invest. He said it on the 16th, the 17th, the 18th, and he said it again on the 19th. In 2017, foreign tourism reached 19 million tourists, and the total expenditure, which is of quality, is an indicator of quality, was a 9,6_per_cent higher than 2016. Barcelona airport continues to record in terms of users. And 2017, in search, for six years as a result, Catalonia is the second country of the European Union in capturing foundations of excellence per million inhabitants; those of the European Research Council. In fact, Catalonia captures 60_percent of the resources arriving in the Spanish State. Obviously, all this is the result of the collective effort – of society, of entrepreneurs, of unions, of universities – but also of governments, and also of an independentist government. Now, you, in the fourth quarter of 2017, decide to do another thing. What do they decide to do? They decide to exercise brutal violence against the citizenry that they only wanted to vote; a great stabilising element. Decide to pre-empt and unjudiciously engage elected representatives for the people, inventing a false report; great stabilising element. They dissolve a government, democratically chosen, and its Parliament; it is also a great contribution. And as they had little to do with it, they approved a decree to displace businesses without the authorization of their owners, and, the biggest: it seems that the head of state is dedicated to making tricks, and the president of the state, because he is delocalizing businesses; great contribution to stability. It is in this sense, therefore, that we think it is a great act of cynicism. Catalonia, as I said a moment ago with data, has grown in all its indicators. This with one state against; he said overtly: with one state against. Imagine yourself the day we have a state in favor. This is what the majority of the citizens of Catalonia voted for, October 1. And announce that, of course, we will not stand until Catalonia is a republic, an independent state in favor of freedom, social justice and the economic progress of all and every citizen of Catalonia. A state in favor. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.71.0	Thank you, Member, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.72.0	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President, Members of Parliament, Vice-President, Council, we are ahead of a typical opposition motion of model – model. When it comes to tax reordering, the first thing he does is propose a total waste of €850_million. And, at the same time, then, from there, from this point 1, we propose all measures from 3 to 10, which are only an increase in expenditure. It deserves a special mention precisely point 1, tax reordering. I'll only comment on two of the taxes they charge. Play the IRPF. And, actually, it's cheating, because they're talking about a reduction in trams that really means a loss of progressive taxation. They demand the reduction of the marginal type of the first tram, which, in practice, implies a reduction in the effect of higher renders. In relation to the taxes on which the abolition is sought, which indicates its commitment to the self-government of Catalonia, they call for the abolition of taxes on the emission of gases, nitrogen oxides, which precisely have a function not so much recaptancy as environmental. Which also indicates who their priorities are. They also call for the abolition of the non-productive assets tax of legal persons, when precisely they pursue the social function of housing. It congratulates us on item 3 – so we will not vote for it either – which precisely calls for the activation of the external offices of the Generalitat, when the first one they did with 155 was to eliminate and suppress these offices of encouragement from the Catalan foreign economy. In relation to exports, no matter how pathetic, 2017 has grown by 8.7_per_cent, and Catalonia has surpassed the growth of the eurozone for eight years as a result. Tourism, as has already been said, has brought down visitors very slightly, but, in change, has increased tickets, which indicates an increase in their quality. In relation to investigation and development, I don't think it's pathetic, because the government is already working on the measures of the National Industrial Pact and starting them with the National Knowledge Pact. And all the measures they offer from universities, training, in relation to birth, teaching, what they require are resources; they require money and they require to approve assumptions – and I'm not looking at anyone. You have no legitimacy, no credibility, no moral authority to talk about the competitiveness of the Catalan economy, when it is those who have deepened the fiscal deficit. I'm not going to be in the gifters that the Junts Deputy for Catalonia, Mr Solsona, was so masterfully exposed yesterday, but I would like to make a reference. Recently we have been the object of attention by the Parliament of Extremadura– from here we send a cordial greeting to the people of Extremadura–, in which, they reiterated the application of 155, and arguing that "they urged the Government of Spain to unconditionally defend the symbols that represent us as a nation and as Spaniards, that represent us all. Who are these symbols? So, we have these symbols in a proposal that was presented precisely by the People's Party – they see that we look at what they are proposing – to the Parliament of Extremadura, in 2014. And these symbols were, precisely, before a supposed Catalan quota – which, in fact, no one has ever seen –..., the symbols were this: that if Catalonia really recaptured and managed its resources, « our autonomous community would lose 12_per_cent of revenue, and the rest of the communities would lose, from the common system, 16,000_million_euros per year. The Parliament of Extremadura has been given the power to quantify our fiscal deficit. Look, actually, this proposal, what they're presenting, this young man, the only one that worries them is point 2, the point on the process. And they're raising a series of problems that I'm going to give them a series of solutions to right now. They argue that we have legal security problems; therefore, we have a political and democratic solution. They argue that we have problems with political stability; therefore, I stop criminalizing a political, legitimate and legal objective, such as independence. They say that plans to break the legal order are being abandoned, so they precisely stop pursuing ideologies through the courts. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.73.0	Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.74.0	And they talk about political conflicts that hurt, so solve them as they solved Canada and Britain. Certainly, the republic doesn't exist yet...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.75.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.76.0	Now I'm done, President... but the right of self-determination does exist. For those who are interested in reading legal texts, I recommend reading article 1.1 of the International Covenant...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.77.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.78.0	...of civil and political rights. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.79.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the papers, has the word the deputy, Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.80.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Cid, I imagine that you, the exams, went to present them for speeches. I tried to talk to you so that I could negotiate them, so I would have known exactly what our respectable parent was. We didn't have the opportunity to do it, I'm sorry. With regard to the issues of City, it's true or it's not true, I tried to talk to you. You answered my messages, told me you'd call me and you haven't called me yet, huh? With regard to the Ciutadans exams we accept the exams that they present to us, we make a deal, but let me ask for your attention. They try to avoid adopting the nationalist and independentist language, the one that precisely treats Spain as if we were not ourselves, as if it were a third person. Because the transaction is precisely to say that Catalonia is also Spanish, because you treated it as if it were one of us apart. Miss Romero, a few things I can tell you, but have a little memory. By the end of December 2011, he ruled a lord who was called Zapatero and left the country as he did. Remember Zapatero? Taxi drivers remember Zapatero very well, huh? Taxi drivers remember Zapatero very well. Listen, so, that's what Rajoy's government has to do. He says: "We do not have high taxation. It's not what the reports say, it's not what I've seen about Catalonia's taxation, it's not what you say, but I already think you have to think about it. That's how he goes with Mr. Sanchez. [[Widow's remorse.]] Very quickly, it serves as much for We can as it does for the CUP. Look, I understand that the economic model on which democracy is based...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.81.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.82.0	...the economic model on which Western democracy is based for you is authoritarian. That is why we are not surprised that, for example, today, you continue to defend dictatorships like Maduro's, in Venice. [[Widow's remorse.]] To Mr Castellà, Miri, Mr Castellà, Miri, very simple, simply ask Councilwoman Chacón the reports on the impact she had on the economy and on the Catalan industry [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] the whole September 6th and 7th process...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.83.0	Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.84.0	...and declarations of independence. I'm done. Mr. Campdepadrós, we did not close with 155 nor a single office of commercial dynamism, we closed the political delegations that were dedicated to doing...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.85.0	Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.86.0	...apologia of independence. Don't lie to me like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.87.0	We called for a vote. Tell me, Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.88.0	To vote separately from point 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.89.0	Point one. [[Marina Bravo Sobrino asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.90.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 1.b, from Barcelona. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.91.0	Mrs. Segovia, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.92.0	Vote separate from all points, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.93.0	All points. All right. From the subpoints also or in this one can we vote only separately in point 1.b? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? Okay. We will vote, therefore, to put all the points separately from this motion. We begin by voting on sub-point 1.b, which has also called for a separate vote. Therefore, we start by voting point 1.b, from Barcelona. The vote begins. This point, 1.b, was rejected by 4 votes in favour, 89 against and 34 abstentions. Let's now vote on the rest of Point 1 – the rest of Point 1. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 38 votes in favour, 89 against and no abstentions. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 55 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. This was rejected by 55 votes in favour, 64 against and 8 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number four. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 63 votes to 64, with no abstentions. Let's now vote point number five. The vote begins. This was rejected by 38 votes to 64, with 25 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number six. The vote begins. This was rejected by 55 votes in favour, 64 against and 8 abstentions. Let's now vote point number seven. The vote begins. This was rejected by 38 votes to 64, with 25 abstentions. Let's go now and vote point number eight. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 63 votes to 64, with no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote point number nine. The vote begins. This was rejected by 55 votes in favour, 64 against and 8 abstentions. And now we're going to vote for the point and get past this young man. The vote begins. This was approved by 63 votes to 60, with 4 abstentions. And if we haven't figured it out, we've voted for the set of points of this young man. Therefore, we suspend the session until three o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.328.0	[[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the balance of the past year since the elections of 21 December 2017 and the violation of civil and political rights]] [[302-00050/12]] The disset is the Movement following the Government's inquiry into the balance of the past year since the elections of 21 December 2017 and the violation of civil and political rights. Presented for the Parliamentary Group Republicà, to expose it has the word the deputy Ms Marta Vilalta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.94.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Let's start this year in the same way that we finished the previous year and follow with the tonic that had already begun to pass, therefore, intensively since the end of 2017; and this is a map, a map of repression in our country. We have already done so during the interrogation of Mr Bosch, but it is that the list is intense and endless: new political prisoners and prisoners; seven independent leaders in exile; drawings of people of the Government who are prosecuted, and also around them, who have liberal powers to allow citizens to vote; social activists also retaliated, some in exile and others confined in their municipality, such as Adrian or Tamara; more than seven hundred mayors also persecuted, and persecuted mayors, and various citizens of our country with incomprehensible and inverse causes, and here we find pallassos to rappers, such as Valtunyc, Tutarians, Bombers, Masters or people named after one. And it's a list that, instead of sneaking out, that instead of getting smaller every time, as it should be in a normal and democratic country, each time is longer, as we could see, for example, just last week, with arbitrary arrests to some mayors, last week, detentions without a warrant, therefore, with the will only to power and to want to frighten the citizenry. Or, as we have seen recently this week too, with the prohibition that MPs who have been arrested and arrested may take part in the committee, they may compare to the 155th Committee of Inquiry, as we have seen, that they will not be allowed to compare for the time being. And we've also seen it recently this same week with this willingness to dehumanize the other and to misrepresent the whole story, as Minister Borrell cynically described the images of October 1st, the images of October 1st, as fake news. Before all this panorama, which we could follow, but obviously time is limited, we do not want nor can we remain impatient, we do not want to stay on the sidelines or look at the other side. And that's why we asked him in the last plenary before he finished the year to Councilman Bosch and today we present this young man with the following points, which I will now explain. Miri, we presented ourselves at the last elections of 21 December, with a very clear slogan, that it is "Democracy always wins, so we believe it, so we defend it, despite the things we have seen. Because the political powers of the State, with the complicity of some of the groups present here, have taken care that this is not so, that democracy does not always win, as it should pass in a normal country, as it should pass in a normal democracy: that what they vote in the ballot box is unalterable, because it is the popular mandate of the citizenry. And that's why we have proposed in this motion from the Republican Group that since the constitution of this legislature there has been an intention to alter the sorghum majorities of the ballot box on 21 December. That is also why in this case we are denouncing this authoritative drift, which has been evidenced by the violation of civil and political rights, such as the right to political participation, such as parliamentary inviolability, such as freedom of expression, the right to assembly and demonstration, the principle of criminal legality and the right to effective judicial protection. And we also wanted to denounce, and we will do so as often as we need, this repressive response, because this repressive response is the only response that we have at the moment found to the will to decide, to the will to build a better country on the part of the citizens of Catalonia. And, therefore, what we do is denounce this repressive response, which has the sole objective of criminalising and delegitimizing the Catalan independence movement. This path of repression has a stage on its own weeks, on its own days, which is the judgment. And that's why we do, and we want to see it, is to denounce this trial, this October 1 trial, as a democracy trial. Because what you're judging is the ballot boxes that you've put in, what you're judging are the votes that you've cast. Therefore, what is being pursued and what is being judged is democracy. And so we denounced it, showing that there was, moreover, a politicized instruction. And finally, ending this point of purpose, which is our proposal, our bet, which always – always – will we insist on? Which we believe is responsible, which we believe is feasible and which we believe is necessary, which is obviously a political solution, a solution which is necessary for democracy, a solution which passes through the right to self-determination on the part of the citizens of Catalonia, the citizenship of our people, and therefore, which is, for all of us, the repressive way that is the only answer we have found so far. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.95.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.96.0	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, what has happened in Catalonia since 21 December 2017? So the State lied, the State lied to us. "Without violence you can talk about everything, if you say so, and it was false. And lying is the open door to repression and a decomposition state. The self-liquidation of the State began with a lie in Catalonia, and when a state lies, it carries public ethics. And from here, it's known: it can hit, it can suppress, converting justice into a legal Blandi Blub menu, and arrested it temporarily, into an unrighteous and eternal chastisement. Everything, absolutely everything, it is clear that yes, to the service of the 'one, great and free. It was precisely yesterday six years ago that this Parliament approved, for the most part, the Declaration of Sovereignty and the Right to Decide of the People of Catalonia. The Constitutional Court, which never disappoints us, suspended this statement; it would only be absent. Yesterday it was six years ago, that the Constitutional Court decided that Catalans and Catalans do not know how to vote. They don't know how to vote, 'cause we don't vote like we want to. And they don't know how to think, because they don't think like they want to. This is exactly what happened in the summer of 2010 with the feeling of the State, and this is what happened again, ladies and gentlemen, on the night of 21 December, the night that Catalonia defeated ultra-Spain. The ultra-Spain of the 155th tripartite, the ultra-Spain of Governor Cunillera, the one who calls in the morning, the one of "Police with Caputxes to the sis of the morning; and in the houses, in the sis of the morning, it is not going to be done anything, it is not going to the houses at this hour. The ultra-Spanish of Lo Raier del Manzanares, a compulsive liar to Europe and, at the time, shareholder minister, with Pepe Borrell. The PP of the micro-Aznar, in Casado. All this troop, and also this marketing invention that is Ciutadans, saw how Catalonia said to them: "Democracy yes, repression no, and institutions yes, 155 no. The State acts arbitrarily in Catalonia, because it does not know it. And he doesn't know her because he doesn't recognize her, and if he doesn't, he obviously can't respect her. And if you don't respect her, it's impossible to estimate her. A question that, in fact, intrigued me: Members of the 155th tripartite, now that we are balancing everything that has passed since the 21st of December 2017, what strange mechanism makes them complicit in botxy? Why are they standing next to a state that's giving us away and hitting us? How can you defend this evil device, 155, that affects all Catalans, all of them? The truth is, it's getting really hard to hear. Ultra-Espania designed it all to win, but, oh, man! - Oh, man! – on the night of 21st December 2017 the polls gave them a ban on reality and saw how the citizens of Catalonia decided republic and 1st October, dignity, freedom and democracy. Since that night, the State, the truth is that it couldn't bear to have lost Catalonia. That's why there's been an increase in repression, more forced and more exile, more investigated and more police. The 21st of September woke up to the worst face of this great harpsichord that is the Allergic State at the vote of the people, at the expression of the majority of the people. The brutality with which the State has acted has led the Spanish State back seventy years. And that's why the executed power and the judiciary continue to play hand in hand, so as not to allow the investiture of President Puigdemont, neither that of Jordi Sánchez, nor that of Jordi Turull. Well... And, of course, that the State does not respect the election results, that it knows: we will do what we can to invest President Puigdemont, we will do what we can, because unfortunately, poor democracy, when parliaments do not work to respect the will of the ballot box, unfortunately. And we haven't given up anything. We will pay the price we pay to keep our convictions true; at these heights let's play how Catalonia's history will be written in this century. They make us sort out: a new and well-begotten country or an old state that saw in Franco-decade, with a justice that is a judicial forocoche. Demoracy or toga remorse: what do they prefer? On the 5th of February, we'll be living an unworthy trial. Social leaders will be judged because they showed up, and political leaders to complete the election program. It's gonna be a judge in the polls, it's a judge in democracy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.97.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.98.0	One day we'll take perspective and put our hands in the head. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.99.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.100.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, members of the Bureau... I would like to begin this intervention by showing our concern for the situation that is going on in Venice, for the intention of time of state there is. We call for dialogue, respect for civil and political rights, and social rights. We also call out to those parties that say they're democrats and that accuse others of beatings that they don't support attempts in the summer, for a lot that the president of the United States does. We come here for a young man who we believe is a new opportunity to denounce from the Parliament the heavy violation of civil and political rights that the citizens of Catalonia are patenting, but also from the rest of the State. Because it's not just a couple of years ago, it's a long time ago and it's happening. In this complaint, we've always been there, we'll always find each other. This young man could have been an opportunity to exemplify this broad consensus before repression. It couldn't be in all its points, because the proposed group preferred the support of its governing partner to add alliances, to have a report that closes the focus instead of expanding it. But, still, in many things before repression, we'll find each other. We share diagnostic and certainly proposed. They will always find us in a broad, majority front, which clearly denounced the interference with politics and society of a partial, heteropatriarchal, classist judiciary, which in many cases fails in favor of those who have power, because power feeds and is preserved. We are at the door of a clearly political trial, which wants to criminalize certain ideas and the people who defend them, because it is not a trial only against independence, because the state of law is at stake. This is why Barcelona has an institutional declaration and a broad anti-repressive front, in solidarity with prisoners and political prisoners and their families. The former MP, Marta Vilalta, has already made some listings of some of the people who have suffered this violation. We would like to expand our focus and talk also about the young people of Altsasu, who carry eight hundred days in preventive detention, the titulars of Madrid, the new ones of Vilanova, the activists of « Encircle the Parliament, the vaguists of March 8, to whom Ferrocarrils of the Generalitat de Catalunya has denounced and is also asking for prison sentences: the Alfon, the Adri, the Tamara, the rappers, but also the Tutaire Cassandra and Willy Toledo, and the Dani Mateu and their patriotic refreshment, and, of course, the teachers of Sant Andreu de la Barca. I leave many, it's... in time, it's hard to list them all. We believe that it is a brave legal policy. Put the legal policy of governments and institutions in the service of the repressed; in all cases, not only when we talk about people retaliated for their independence ideas, for all. We don't have a profile, we never did. Maybe we don't share or buy the protest strategy of the independence movement, but that doesn't mean we don't go with words and facts, and forcefully. That is why, just arriving at the Barcelona Assembly, we withdrew from all the accusations of demonstrators and activists who had been the Barcelona Assembly of previous governments. We're not just withdrawing, we're judicially individuals. Since October 1, a legal support service has been set aside for victims of October 1, who have reached hundreds of people. Let's look for repair, truth and justice, and make sure this doesn't happen again. Thanks to the accusations of entities defending the human rights of the Barcelona Assembly, the case against the October 1st police operation is still open. They've already declared twenty-and-four agents. We ask the Generality for the same courage and that it is also removed from all those causes where it is persona, which are causes against activists who criminalize the protest. We're celebrating that there's the character in the case against the most serious arrests of Celrà and Verges last week. But that's why we don't understand – and it seems to us, at last, cynical – that the Generality continues to be personified as a prosecution for the protest of the twelve ex-students and staff of the PAS of the University of Girona, which defended the public university against the details of the Government of Convergence and Union ; and that it demands higher penalties than the Ministry of Public Prosecutions. We don't understand: as it is possible to denounce the repression, for a band, and continue characters on accusations that justly criminalize the protest. We can talk about the Pandora operation and the move operation against anarchist activists. We celebrate that the convergence heretics are now talking about the criminalization of politics, but we have at our disposal what it was like to prosecute the activists "We surround the Parliament, and how someone compared this mobilization with Tejero's coup d'état and wrote that he had felt sweaty, nauseous, and the feeling of turning an evil – he was the president of the Quim Torra General, about the activists who surrounded the Parliament. Mr Puig himself considered that altering the functioning of Parliament for a legitimate social protest was a serious violation of rights. I think we all have to take a step, accept where we are, but we also have to remember how we were wrong. If we take this step amp, if we look straight ahead, we'll find each other, but we also ask for courage. That is why we ask the Government of the Generality to follow up and not to act on the causes that criminalise the protest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.101.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, to fix its position, has the word Mr. Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.102.0	Okay. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Honestly, I think it is essential that you start today with a very personal opinion that we share with the rest of my group, but I think it is truly entrepreneurship and ridiculous that in today's Spain we are talking about violations, alleged violations of civil rights, political rights, when all humanity, the whole universe tells us all the contrary to what you say. [[Widow's remorse.]] In this young man..., they fight, they fight, they fight. You said today, Mr. Pujol, that one day we'd look into what's been going on these years and we'd put our hands in the head. And I hope so, because, actually, the amount of lies they've said all these years will embarrass them in a few years, I'm not convinced. [[Greetings.]] Miri, yesterday, the President of the Generality, Mr. Torra, lied on two occasions in his parliamentary office, with all the tranquility. And, after all, when the president of our group remembered him, he still reaffirmed himself. I'd say yes, actually. He said that Mr. Puigdemont had been judged by Germany. Where's the judge? There is no trial, no sentence, no assembly; all the contrary, the only thing the Schleswig-Holstein Court has said is that there is no one in Spain who is being persecuted for his political ideas. It's the only thing that this court has said – the only thing. [[Greetings.]] Mirin, Members of the separatist parties, Spain is not a militant democracy, unlike Germany. In Spain, all ideas can be defended, whenever it is made between legally established brands, whenever it is done without violating the law; it is a principle of any democracy that is not militant democracy. In Germany, for example, a party that is contrary to the Federal State of Germany, the Federal and Social Republic of Germany, would be immediately unlawful, declared unconstitutional for the Constitutional Court. That's not happening in Spain. We will like democracy more or less in Germany or Spanish democracy, now ours is much more guaranteed than German. I'm also telling you, because you know what could happen to a party that you want to end with the democratic constitutional order in a country. That's what would happen to Alemanya. It is clear to Spain that we have a democracy, certainly much more guaranteed and much more respectful of the country's internal plurality, which is what we are proud of and which we are proud of. From this point of view, there have always been separatist parties in Spain. Mr. Torra is an independentist stoned and here we have, perfectly repented, seated at his seat, at his escó, without any problem. I want to tell them, too, something else. And that I think is important. I understand, gentlemen of the separatist bench, that it pains them that no international organization gives them support, gives its thesis, its catastrophic account of the reality of Spain, that it pains them that The Economist places Spain among the only twenty full democracies in the world. I understand that it hurts them that Freedom House tells them that Spain is one of the countries where individual rights and freedoms are most respected. I understand that it hurts them that any international body tells them that Spain is a perfectly consolidated democracy. I understand that it hurts them that Spain is one of the countries with the least convictions in the European Court of Human Rights. I understand that all of this hurts you, because all of this is in contradiction with your fallacious and treacherous account of Spanish democracy that they claim to make us believe. And they come here every day to say, then, all this kind of fallacy, that all they do is hurt coexistence, but, of course, international success have little, the truth. On their tour around the world, on their tour of lies around the world, what they have achieved is the support of the North League, the support of the Flemish ultra-nationalists, the support of the Finnish ultra-nationalists, recently even the support of a Golden Dawn MEP, no more or less, of the Greek ultra-right party. They have some support also among the American Tea Party. [[Greetings.]] Is that all you've got with your tour, your lie tour? Well, it seems to me personally slim result for your claim to internationalize the process. And what I have very clearly is that this harms the image of Catalonia and ultimately damages the image of democracy, but from the general point of view not Spanish democracy. Spanish democracy enjoys a very, very respected and highly valued health in the world for everything I have told you. Just don't say no, don't deny the evidence. It's evidence, just evidence. It is exhausting to have to endure his discourse on Spanish democracy every day. It is truly regrettable that they intend to make us commulgate with mill wheel when everyone is telling them that nothing has to do with reality their catastrophic story about Spain. You try to delegitimize, erode the image of our democracy and do so with gross lies. Nothing they say corresponds to reality, to objective reality. Look, gentlemen, it is clear that no one here believes that the republic exists. Neither is Mr Puigdemont who recently filed an appeal with the Constitutional Court, precisely against the president of this chamber, Mr Torrent, that he certainly did not know, as Mr Junqueras probably did not know that Mr Puigdemont would escape. But, in any case, Mr Puigdemont has already accustomed us to such disloyalties, not with all the citizens of Catalonia, but even with his parliamentary partners. Anyway, I tell you what, the republic doesn't exist. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] But in any case, if there were...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.103.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.104.0	...his republic is as imaginative and foolish as the Freedonia of the Marx brothers, keep in mind. Ladies and gentlemen, please stop lying...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.105.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.106.0	...and stop saying falsehoods about Spanish democracy. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.107.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is now the return of the MP, Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.108.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies..., well, we've heard..., not all reports because there are still parliamentary groups to intervene, but we've heard some clearly contrasted relationships between them. And it is what has the elaboration of reports that pretend to be without cracks, of all coherence internally and without contradiction; what is hardly ever correspond to social and political reality that are by definition enormously complex and plural. By this I do not intend to say that the reports of one or the other are completely false in the sense that they are all based – if not, they are purely unsustainable – on something that is certain or at least that is true for an important part of the citizenry. And, therefore, it is politically uplifting. And as we are here in a parliament and, in principle, we should be trying to find the minimum basic consensus that allows us to continue to function as a functional political community that is not fragments, that is not divided into groups of visions and different interests up to a point where coexistence is unsustainable, we should seek to attend to what is politically and socially relevant to a meaningful group of our fellow citizens; they support or do not support our own theses. And, therefore, I believe that, despite the difficulties of setting up a debate as relevant as it is in a parliamentary debate as this one in a young person, it is important that the women, these debates. But, as you see, the claim to have absolutely consistent relationships, let's say, no cracks, no contradiction, runs counter to the difficulty of making them compatible, huh? And I said in some previous debate that we probably lack a historical perspective on all the terrible events that happened at the length of this year and age – probably two years, every one that sets the scene of events, let's say, harder at the time you want – to be able to establish a minimally shared account of our country's recent history. It's probably a lot of time. And it's probably a good thing that, sometimes, it's said, from some parliamentary groups and we don't always just practice, that it's the intention to look forward and see how we can overcome the divisions that have gone deeper into our society in the past few years. Because, look... – I say, with all due respect, to the deputy who made his group's spokesman in the presentation of this young man – there was one of the statements that I wanted to discuss especially, there are no others that we could discuss, that I am sure we will have the opportunity to do, but there is one that I do and I want to discuss. You have said: "No, there is no other answer, we have not heard any other answer than repression. Miri, I have to say: "We cannot agree on this. Some, let us say, have put possible political solutions on the table, of a lesser abst that they have to see with the intention of solving questions that have been stuck for a long time, and others that they have to see with a reform of our institutions, which would be enormously profound, in the case of moving towards a fully federal, democratic and social state, as some would like. Another thing is that this is not to the satisfaction of certain parliamentary groups which represent, quite legitimately, a conjunction of the Catalan citizenry which must be taken very seriously. But, to us, it seems that they do not deserve, let us say, the total disqualification that supposes the fact of ignoring the fact that it has been formulated. And it's true that this is sometimes ruled out when it's "late enough," "now it doesn't touch, etc." We particularly think that no one is in possession, let's say, of the clock of history to put up with it when it comes to it, and that there are questions that are objectively good for the joint of the citizenry, that they have tried very hard to conquer. And that, in effect, after always being careful to defend, but that it cannot be said that, because of the fact that it has failed, let us say to ourselves, the first Spanish republic, therefore, never again neither the republic nor federalism can be a good solution. We give them to some and others that we think is no time to insist, even though it is merely as insinuating, in a unilateral declaration of independence, as we have heard the President of the Generality in a recent radio interview. And neither does it seem to us that it is a waste, and it is a very bad idea of all, all, apart from being directly unconstitutional, the idea of applying a permanent and perpetual 155 which, then, is no longer a last resort and an intervention of autonomy to become a suspension of the same principle of autonomy that is hierarchically between the founding principles of the democratic and social state that is Spain. Therefore, neither solution, what we have to do is dialogue until we can restore a minimum of consensus. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.109.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, is the turn, now, of the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.110.0	Thank you, President. From the escho; to say that our group gives full support to this young man. We share all the plans and we have to say more than before. That is to say, we are celebrating that in the last few points of this motion it has finally been realized that, effectively, the democratic resolution for the political conflict effectively passes through the right to self-determination and the fission of repression. We participate that this political conflict inevitably requires a democratic solution, but we believe that the only democratic solution is necessary for the exercise of the right to self-determination and for the purpose of repression. Without these two conditions, there is no democratic framework and therefore we do not believe in any dialog that does not focus on this democratic framework. And, let's face it, even though this is not the subject of this young man, we are still thinking, and here we are saying, that, since on the other hand there is no one who wants to talk about self-determination and repression, the only way to achieve this democratic mark is the democratic break with the Spanish State by the unilateral way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.111.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.112.0	Thank you very much, President. From the escó. As you see us, Spain, out of the way? No, obviously, beyond the opinionators I am of the Government of Catalonia, as a bewitched state. They see us as a full democracy – explained earlier – of the only ones coming from the world, according to The Economist; they see us as the second country – they are objective – in the hope of life of the world; they see us as one of the best countries in the world to live there; in fact, we are the first, the first, in the field of the European Union, in spontaneous response, as the destination of work, a curious thing, that a fetishist state is the favourite for the democracies of the world to work there. The fact that he also invites us to reflect: we would also be, if Spain were a faixist state, the only and first faixist state of the history of humanity in which the oppressed, it is to say, you would be negotiating assumptions with the faixists repressions, a thing that is frankly fun and that would turn Mr. Eduard Pujol into a member of the club of complicity and repression of article 155 all this time. If we're talking about a violation of rights, the only violation of rights that's been clearly demonstrated is yours, the 6th and 7th of September. Imagine if you are aware of the violation of rights that even Mr. Carles Puigdemont has been forced to report to yourself because of the violation of rights, and it is that even between you and everyone else they do, they are violating their rights all day; they do it to us, if they do to you..., here comes a time when one day in the Parliament of Catalonia we will say good morning and they will report to us for violation of rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.113.0	To pronounce on the papers has the new word the deputy Ms Marta Vilalta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.114.0	Well, thank you, President. First of all, I did not have time before, but I did want to give special thanks to the parliamentary groups that have submitted papers, for their contributions, for their generosity too, so that we can reach agreement and, therefore, improve – I think so – this initial text that we have proposed from my parliamentary group. We have accepted two of the comprehensive papers presented by the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, one of which, precisely, is to denounce this application of 155, and the threats to continue applying this 155. We've traded most of the other items. Certainly, Mrs Segovia, the list of reprisals is long, and they will always find us, in defense of the rights and in struggle and in face of violations of rights. There is also some reference to the words that have been said at the length of the interventions of the rest of the parliamentary groups. Miri, the German justice has indeed spoken, and in this case it clearly said that there was no rebellion. And that's what he said clearly, yes. So, yes, time will end up giving us reason. And if we're talking about supports, we're talking about all the supports, and here are the only ones who have made a deal with the extreme fascist right, with the extreme maleist right, and with the extreme racist right, who are Vox's, they're you in the deal in Andalusia. So they didn't come to give us any lessons. I ended, already, with one last reference, in any case, to the Socialist Party Group, inviting them to vote on the point that makes it explicit that a democratic solution should be found through the right path of self-determination and through the end of repression. If they say they've made moves, then, that he's a virgin and, therefore, we ask them for support also at this point. And I want to end by making an element of the book recently published by Raül Romeva, which is said to be Hope and Freedom, which is a very powerful message, because despite judicial interference, despite threats, despite this willingness to criminalize us, despite the fact that all the repression will not be used to stop this movement. I tell them with sincerity and humility: when they get out of prison...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.115.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.116.0	... – I finish – because they will come out, they will not be able to look at the eyes. The prison lasts a while, because they will come out, but dignity and pride are forever.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.117.0	Congresswoman, thank you. [[Greetings.]] We called for a vote. [[Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]] Tell me, Mr. Pedret. Ask the word, why?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.118.0	To ask for separate vote from the point that was numbered as to 6, in any case, the last.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.119.0	I think I'm still feeling the sis. So, would we vote separately on the sist and the rest of the motion? Don't you? [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Mrs. Segovia, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.120.0	Yes, to ask for the vote separate from point 1.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.121.0	Full point one, huh? All right. All right. So, we'll vote point 1, point 6 and the rest of the vote. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. This was approved by 63 votes to 54, with 8 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number six. The vote begins. Point 6 was approved by 88 votes to 37, with no abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 71 votes to 54, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into fiscal policy]] [[302-00051/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the order of the day that this is the post-government inquiry into fiscal policy. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, it has the word to expose it by Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.122.0	Vice-President Pere Aragonès said in the question: "I am more close to Catalonia in Comú than to PP. In fact, he said: "I am more at his will. It was the debate we had on the 18th of September, and these were the words of the vice president, when we talked about the debate on taxation in the debate of the inquiry. And we complained to him, with the group, facts and no words. Well, today we're 24 generations old, and I think we're where we are, from Catalonia to Comú, they're next to the PDECAT, and, more importantly, they're closer to the PP than we are. From taxation – we have raised it and we continue to raise it – we have, from our point of view, three main objectives in what we have raised, in the need for fiscal reform, in progressive closure, and also in this case, environmental taxation. First of all, reducing inequality, which continues to grow in Catalonia despite the fact that the economic situation is improving; secondly, obtaining more resources for the Generality's premise to be able to shield social services and put an end to retailing, and, thirdly, in full 21st century, introducing environmental taxation as a key element in the fight against climate change. Why, of course, without more resources, what are we willing to give up? Look, we, in the debate on assumptions, are making very concrete proposals: that the Generality refinances the schools to the cent_per_cent; do we give up this? 850 health professionals; are we not prepared to take on this? To end people, in this case, with the list of people who expect an emergency piss in the emergencies; another proposal. Reduce the waiting lists to 3,500 places, with nine places of residence for large people; don't we want to put this on the table? Two-hundred_million euros more for guaranteed income. Or to double, for example, resources for childhood, as approved in this very Parliament, recently, the majority of the Government, together with other groups. Or, for example, more reversal for public transport. And yesterday our president said: in the debate of assumptions we are years ago light, but it is that in taxation I believe that, now, we are in another dimension. I believe that a party like Esquerra Republicana, like that famous North American series, is in an unknown size, as we hear it. Because, look, I'm reading some things I found. She said: "We must take advantage of our small but not insignificant fiscal margin of budgetary management so as to distribute the costs of the current economic crisis more equitably. Republican Esquerra Program at the 2012 Autonomic Elections. She also said: "Increase the progression of the IRPF in possible future reforms through the system of trams and marginal types. Republican Esquerra Program of the year 2011. Clearly, I ask you: do we ask Spain what we are not willing to do to Catalonia? Because in IRPF you are closed to call and chant. I say to you: since Esquerra Republicana manages the Economy Council there has been no substantial reform in the two main direct taxes managed by the Generality, taxation of estates and taxation of IRPF. And, of course, you always pose me..., let me see the difficulties that there are to touch, for example, the income tax, the difficulties that this generates... But, of course, myri, autonomous communities that since the year 2015, it is said, since Esquerra Republicana manages the Economy Council, that have modified the income tax, for example: La Rioja, is paid 25.5 from 120,000_euros; País Valencia, 25.5 from 120,000_euros; Balears, 24_per_cent from 120,000_euros; Asturias, 25_per_cent from 90,000_euros; Cantàbria, 25 and mig from 90,000_euros; Aragó, 23 and mig from 90,000_euros; Extremadura, 24 mig from 100,000_euros. Listen, if you're making many autonomous communities... I don't want to think about what the debate in the United States is anymore, which they envy, where Mrs.Alexandria Ocasio-Courtez, for example, sets a maximum of 70_per_cent for those people who earn more than 10_million euros. Look, we're making concrete proposals, we want Catalonia to lead the fight against inequality and climate change, and I think it's time for us to decide and say what we're willing to do and what we're not willing to do in tax, and that's what we're putting up today from the table. And we believe that if we really want social assumptions we need progressive tax reform in environmental taxation to shield public services and, in this case, protect the most vulnerable. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.123.0	Thank you, Congressman. All the same, and to defend the papers presented, it has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group Unites per Avançar, the deputy Mrs.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.124.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, president, vice president, councillors, deputies and deputies. So, the commons, the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puermos presents us with a motion on taxation. It is a subject in which some parliamentary groups are a bit of a malaise, because we have had enough time to present in this plenary the need to make a comprehensive tax reform, which actually raises some changes in taxation in Catalonia, because it seems to us that we need to improve the justice and progressivity of some taxes that depend on our administration. It's true that we often say that we don't have enough skills, but in those taxes that we do have to take advantage of our own self-government to try to do three things. One, fighting inequality, and this surely should be the priority of any government at a time when they have grown too much, in later years. Two, getting to be fairer, is to say, who has more pay, who has more pay, who earns more pay, so, more contribute to the better of public servants, than in the last few years, and facing the retail and crisis, have suffered a major degradation. Therefore, it is necessary to ask for more effort from those who can do it most and not as was done in the past few years, that we have asked for more effort from the middle classes, the pensioners, the public officials... Therefore, this effort must also be made for social justice. And, in the third place, to get more tickets, because, when the vice president – let's hope – soon presents the assumptions, there is more margin. If we have more tickets, we will have more capacity to spend and to devote these resources to social spending, as necessary as I said before to fight, for example, against inequality. Therefore, there are three key elements that reinforce our need and our will that there is a major tax reform in Catalonia. It is true that we would like it to be much more ambitious, but with the resources and regulatory capacity we have, so it is possible to do what can be done. But anyway, there's a margin and we think we should work it out. And, in this sense, they seem very good to us, they coincide very much with our proposals made by Catalonia in Comú Pode, both for what it does to the IRPF and for what it does to successions and donations, which I think, quite simply, we also explained when we presented our inquiry and subsequent motion. It seems to us uncertain the proposal that is made about the increase of the type in the tax of documented legal acts, now that they pay the banks, the subject pass are the banks. It is true that there have always been important benefits. The State also made an important effort to keep them in a proper situation and, therefore, we believe that they could now make an effort, just as we ask those who have the most and earn the most, right? Some proposals that are also made in green taxation, that we also share and our reviews, that were very, say, focus, if you want, or focus on some aspects, were, above all, because in lock-up – which I believe will have been accepted – a proposal to incorporate the compliment of two additional provisions that existed in the Climate Change Act and that forced the Government to set aside, to enter into force in 2019, two taxes: on economic activities that generate gases with winter effects and the tax on port emissions of large ships. Therefore, this should have come into force this 2019, it has not come in, and what we would ask the government is that it compliments these dispositions and is able to work. Now, it's true that everything is very fair, but there is a law of fiscal and financial measures, which could be introduced, for example, these two taxes, isn't there? So, this is one of the things we're doing. And the other, when we're talking about fighting the fraud, which is true that someone... I think it was Mrs. Albiach who was talking about it the other day, it's true that an effort has been made and Mr. Saved also knows things, and it's true that he's been doing a couple of years, I think it was, there was an important recap of the fight against the fraud, but we have to keep working on that, right? And when we look at the studies he's done on the economy, it turns out that we're thinking there's an important fraud, especially in the case of estates and donations, right? And so, here, we could get more tickets. And we believe that, in order to fight the fraud, beyond saying it and beyond making campaigns of awareness, it would be better to put in more inspectors, this means more resources and, therefore, on the subject than we do, what we are asking is, precisely, that tax control and inspection be increased, but with personal resources that allow this work to be done. Because, taking into account that, when the property registers and the offices were doing this task of recapitulation, but also of inspection, 100 per cent of the shippers were inspected and we have doubts as to whether this is still going to be so and, if not so, it will need to be put in more resources to do so. Therefore, if we really believe that of the fraud, because, in the end, they are resources that do not enter and should enter, we must fight in a more determined way. And, therefore, these are the two points that we make, we congratulate Deputy Cid on the presentation of this motion and to hope that it can be approved. But, as he said, we don't know what the government's position is on this, we think it's not joint, because we saw it a few months ago, but in any case, let's hope that this week we can move forward and mature and see, today, a bolder proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.125.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Mr Lluís Salvado.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.126.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs. Well, I'll make some reflections on the content of the motion and, obviously, we can hardly get into the background of the question in a five-minute debate, but, of course, that the Parliamentary Group of the Commons tend and are having a lot of opportunity to discuss with detail each of these figures with the Department of Economy and History, in the framework of this approach to the negotiation of the assumptions of 2019. In any case, we will vote a very, very important part of the proposals made to us in this motion and, as you know, we have voted practically against all the proposals made by the People's Party in fiscal matters; therefore, you will see clearly that we are very, much more in favour of you than not of the People's Party. It seems to me that, in fiscal matters, we are much closer to what we would like to manifest or what we intend to manifest in the debates and interventions that have preceded us and it seems to me that it is important to have a fundamental premise, fiscal matters are one of the elements that impact in a more transversal way and in a much more direct way on the citizenry and on the conjunction of the hundreds of small and medium-sized enterprises of our country. And it seems to us that the improvement and continuous evolution of the tax system must develop, in good measure and as far as possible, on broad consensus. The country, the citizenry and our broad economic fabric rejects and escapes, in a general way, the flying shots, the vintages and the vengeful ones, and the electoralist announcements in the matter of taxes, and it seems to us that, in good measure, a very important part of the proposals that are made today respond to this spirit of great consensus and this spirit of continuous improvement and, for this reason, we will collect a very substantial part of the motion and we hope and would be happy to be able to materialize them jointly in the framework of this budgetary negotiation. Other measures, other proposals that we may not, unfortunately, be able to gather, but not because we do not have the will and not because the Government does not have the will to work with them, to bring them closer and to build consensus on these aspects, such as, for example, the imposition of estates, but, possibly, certainly, even if we cannot vote on a concrete proposal that says that the recovery of estates tax is to be increased by EUR 475.5 million, we may not agree with the decimals, we may not agree with the question so, so concrete that it is planted, but, obviously, as has been shown, by the Vice-President of the Government on various occasions, the margin and the willingness to be able to bring about approximations do not exist. We have provided some ideas on the content of the motion, ideas that the first of them is trying to put forward that Catalonia has already many years and, especially, during the last few years, which is taking place – as none of them in the conjunct of the Spanish State – a continuous tax reform, of social character, of progressive character, of environmental character and seems to me to highlight this fact. We do not start today talking about taxation, we carry many years approved in this House tax props. Any comparative report in fiscal matters of the conjunction of autonomy shows, in a very clear way, that Catalonia, today, has fifteen taxes propitious, the second community is Andalusia and Murcia, which have in them, and communities like the Valencia Country, which pose as an example to the young, have in them three, or the Balearic Islands, also have in them three. And it is not only the power of our tax system that is appropriate, in quantitative terms, but also in qualitative terms. Some of the taxes that we have are true references to social, progressive and environmental policy, that no one else has implemented in the conjunction of the State, such as the tax on sugary drinks, a tax that is very effective in reducing negative externalities in the matter of salvation, or the tax on empty floors, a tax that acts against the real estate speculation of banks, or the tax on tourist states, or the tax on non-productive activities, that allows to be much more effective in the fight against fraud in the tax on property or the tax on CO2 of vehicles, or the tax on commercial aviation, not to say that, in aggregate terms, the tax pressure that we have on Catalonia is high in comparison with the tax on other goods; Therefore, it seems to me that we should continue to talk about how to improve, how to evolve, how to make more progress, how to make the tax system and the fiscal system in Catalonia more social, but we are very aware that, at the end of the day, we are far ahead of the rest of the autonomous communities, far ahead of us, and that, in any case, we are at your disposal to continue working, from rigour, from consensus, to improve this tax system from the social and environmental perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.127.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Some applause.]] On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, it is now the turn of Congresswoman Teresa Pallarès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.128.0	Thank you very much. Thank you, President; President, Vice-President, Councillors, Members, Members, Members, Mirin, I had prepared to start with a bit of an introduction to the economic situation in our home, but I thought that, as some of you are not convinced of the facts I am saying, I refer you directly to a report by the Catalan Economics College, which I understand are independent of the versions you can give, on the balance you have made of the past year and the future prospects. In short, the Catalan economy is reversing the catastrophes. That said, when you read it, if you want it, we'll comment on it. This means the importance of the Generality's changes in admissions to our home, since 2012, which has been important and which has allowed us to prioritize and increase social spending. But, obviously, we need to have a presumption, because the Law of Presumptions is the most important law we can approve in this chamber. This means that we can talk about applying, increasing social spending, better tickets, and all that directly reverses our country's citizenship and the quality of public services. With this, however, the reform of fiscal policy that we can achieve in the long term, we all know that it has a limited recaptator impact and also with limited regulatory capacity, we need to talk about a deficit relief, we need to talk about the expenditure rule and, unfortunately, we still need to talk about ARSAL. We all know that we have a very important limitation, which is called a financing model. For this reason, entering into each of the points proposed to us by the group of the Commons, I thank the proposals that they have made, we have worked on them, they have not accepted the transactions that we have made with them, but I do want to comment, respect each of the points, the reason why we have brought it to us. When they talk about putting this tax reform on the market, look, at the bottom, the debate is that the day we can get our tickets back we'll make the tax model and the tax figures that really are good for Catalonia. Now, at this point, we are discussing a quantity that is donated by a government of the State that, in some way, puts itself out of the table some money that we have to try to see as we distribute them among the departments. Therefore, we have a lot of work to do yet and the basic debate is, precisely, the financing model that, one day, I suppose, as you have also said, Mr. Cid, on some occasion, you agree that one day we may change. For what it does to documented legal acts, the proposal of the little one that you say, understand that the passive subjects, now, are the financial entities, I think it is a measure that can be taken into consideration. We think that, with this, we're talking about 78 and a million euros, okay? But, hey! I'm just putting up the table that we're gonna have to plant on who's gonna get this boost from the tax of the funded entities. But I think this is a debate that maybe we'll have another day. For what it does to estates, in the proposal of this tax, the issue of eliminating all bonuses, I think there are some points that can cause adverse effects. One of them is to generate a situation of regressivity, since, if we eliminate the bonus, it also increases much more the tax burden to the lowest inheritances, in relation to the highest. And one issue that I am particularly concerned about is that, as far as the transmission within the family business is concerned, this could affect the business model of our country, which is the small and medium-sized enterprise, because probably many of these small and medium-sized enterprises have more difficulty in applying these bonuses and having them supposed to guarantee their activity, which guarantees us a lot of jobs. As for the IRPF, I think it was also discussed. Here, in the fund, there is an impact that can have some terms of regressivity, assuming that this 25.5, from 120,000_euro means that they will have to pay both 121,000 and 200 or 600; therefore, we also enter into a regress debate. With the climate change, obviously we agree. This is a tax that has been going on for times like, for example, the law that has been up to date and challenged the Constitution, we have had difficulties in drawing up the vehicle pattern, but obviously, and despite the vicissitudes of this period, we are taking action so as to advance in the best of this tax, and therefore here we are with you, aren't we? With the topic of tourist tax, just tell them that, obviously, it is a topic that can be studied and that I think should take into account the figure of the Director General of Tourism, because I think that it is the person that can hear better how it can be distributed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.129.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.130.0	Many thanks, just tell them that the governing pact is to promote equal opportunities through social and equity assumptions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.131.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Mr Martí Pachamé to fix his position.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.132.0	Mr President, President, Vice-President, Councillors, Members, Members... Mr Cid, your motion has two very different lines of argument: to promote progressive taxation and to fight fraud, and, obviously, to increase the number of taxes or to push them to the citizen, a new attempt to "may the economy. Catalonia has the double honor of being the autonomous community with the highest fiscal pressure in all of Spain and the one that applies the highest IRPF to make it low. We are, in a different way, the autonomous community with the most propitious tributes, fifteen, almost twice as much respect for the second, as has been said here. We have made it very clear: the citizens, above all the middle and working classes, on whom you are collecting from the current budget and on whom you are receiving another copy of the nine fiscal measures are well fed up with the fiscal pressure to which you are submissive. You'll see, we're not like Dr. Sánchez, we're not picking up fake assumptions, which are a nyap, as the European Union has already told us, or this proposal for a confiscation tax policy, which precisely tempts against the interests of those they claim to defend, the middle and working classes. We don't want to push taxes, we want to lower taxes, we want to do better public policies and we want to modernise Catalonia and Spain. We believe in a fiscal policy that helps to stimulate investment, that empowers employment and helps to reduce inequalities. These must be the three phone lines on which we can agree. The solution isn't always to push taxes. You know about Einstein: if you look for different results, you don't always do the same. The only thing you know how to do is create us taxes and push the existing ones. They sentence us to a permanent tax inferno. We understand that it is the easiest way, that it is the populist stance; it is to say that pushing taxes will solve all problems. But it's that, as you know, pushing taxes doesn't always mean getting a higher recap or even whatever it is redistributive. It has to reflect very well on what is done in fiscal matters, because its effects have a lot of repercussions. There are no easy solutions to complex problems. The reform of the IRPF "Robinhoodian who brought us to this young man does not serve what you claim. Its proposal is very simple: that the embezzlement and the increase in spending only finance the rich. Look, this is demagic and populist. Pushing the higher marginal types just distorts, and with enough work provides recapturing. Examples.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In 2012 the PP's tax increase to trams above 150.000 euros did not recover res. In fact, he lost recap; after pushing between six and seven points the higher trams, at the end, 18_million less recap. I mean, it actually meant an IRPF less equity and less progress. Regarding the increase in the tax on documented legal acts, tell him that it is, another time, a demagogic and populist measure. The banks will pass on the tax to the client, not having any doubts; through the increase of the costs of constitution, cancellation, an increase of the type of interest, they will lose bonuses to the young people hindering access to the first habitation for this collection... The reaction of the banks will be passed on indifferent way, since their client is national. Conclusion: Citizens will have to suffer the negative consequences of habitating. There are empirical studies on the effects of a tax on the bank. One who seeks to increase the recovery by 0.1_per_cent of GDP would donate instead to a reduction of GDP of 0.09_per_cent, to an increase of two basic points on the types of interest and to a reduction in the volume of credit for deposits and bank capital. There are no easy solutions to complex problems. In any case, if this increase had actually been applied, it would have to be imposing a single criterion at the level of all of Spain, as well as knowing the effects of the second round that I have already mentioned, just as with the inheritance tax. Mr. Cid, we will support measures that effectively lead to a better redistribution of income; that reduce the tax burden on the returns of our fellow citizens under the thirty-thousand euros, now the highest of all Spain; a reduction in the number of exemptions and deductions; to promote the creation of employment with the increase of productive investments, which is also fiscal policy; an effective reduction of tax fraud. And we will also collect all the measures that are being taken to achieve a rationalisation of the public sector. We are the second autonomous community at the expense of the highest number of staff, with the highest number of staff and possibly the most well paid, with the highest number of staff – today it has been precisely known that we use the Catalan PEN International with sixty_ thousand euros each year; 300,000 in our possession, you see, in the last few days –; the most expensive public television, and that it is an authentic black hole. In short, we have a problem of prioritizing expenditure. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] And hyperinflation of other charges, and the only thing they're planting is pushing taxes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.133.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.134.0	...to the citizen. Mr. Cid, it's very good to be with Robin Hood, it's very mediatic; the problem is that, given what brings us here today, it's not Robin Hood, it's the sheriff of Nottingham. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.135.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Ms Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.136.0	Well, good one's late. We understand that in the fiscal sphere, it is of great importance, precisely in the articulation of a model of society that puts life at the centre, the increase in taxes on unproductive assets and higher income strata, all this in the framework of a progressive tax reform and in the environment. Therefore, we stand in favour of this proposal, although we understand that it contains measures that are minimal. But be very clear. We want and bet to overcome capitalism and advance in different forms of society. And let us repeat that, in order to guarantee those rights that are not guaranteed today – you have spoken about schools in Bressol or housing – and also to eliminate inequalities, we must be very aware that at some point we will need to move forward from processes that involve disobedience and that involve conflict with the combination of economic and institutional powers that conform capitalism. I don't know if you think that in the current legal and policy framework it is possible to guarantee the right to housing. We don't think so. Mirin, while the essential rights for life continue to be managed from the logic of capital reproduction, while these benefits are not managed by thinking of the rights and needs of most workers and popular, we cannot guarantee these rights that are so essential for the development of life. Therefore, we understand that it is true that we have to support measures that are moving on the soil of the policy or of the emergence, but that we have to go much further because there are not a few that continue to be enriched at the expense of the exploitation of the majority of workers. In this sense we are clear, and we were clear, too, in the 2017 fiscal year, and we do not want to generate false hopes, because we understand that generating false hopes is very dangerous and only helps institutionalize the struggle of social movements.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.137.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.138.0	Thank you, President. Well, this is a young man presented to us by the Podemos Group, Mr. Cid, in what they come to say: more tax of documented legal acts because they pay the banks, as if the banks did not affect the mortgage tax, which they have already done, more tax of estates and donations, more IRPF, more tax of polluting vehicles, more tax of tourist states. Continue: – ah, the priceless contribution of the Socialist Party – more imposition of economic activities on gas emitters with winter effects, more imposition on farmers... Superen Initiative, Initiative-Podem ; for each point, press a tax; you, with one _sol point do not press two, right? I mean, it's an air race that pushes taxes more. And at the end a point that says, listen to me, more resources for the tax fraud. And here we might agree. But, look, we're not voting for them either, are we? [[Rialles.]] And we won't vote for them because... clearly, no, no; listen, you'll hear me, won't you? [[Some applause.]] We will not vote for them because, in the end, of course, they support both taxes and what they do is encourage tax fraud. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] And then, of course... yeah, man, of course. [[Widow's remorse.]] So, look, I'll sum it up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.139.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.140.0	I'll sum it up... two more things, I have little time. First of all, we are proud that the government is more in favour of its fiscal policy than ours. I detect in the last few weeks a German between the cross of independence and independence to be able to pass assumptions of Mr. Sánchez, Mr. Torra, and all the content and all the friends, to be able to go away for a few years. They will now allow me to summarize our position to their proposal. So, miri, very simple: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no and no; new points, new us. [[Some applause.]] Because, in short – I think you know this, but clearly, how maybe from your philosophy it doesn't look good... –, more taxes – more taxes –, which is what you propose, ends up meaning less economic growth, ends up meaning more hard, ends up meaning poorer and ends up meaning less freedom. Listen to me, I repeat, very proud and very pleased to be absolutely at your antipodes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.141.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, to pronounce on the papers, it's a two-minute turn, again, for Deputy David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.142.0	Do you know what's going on? Let the speeches endure everything, but now we'll see who's closest to who. When I get the lights out there, I guess Ciutadans, PP, Juntes per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana today will vote points together. And, therefore, we shall see who is more toward whom and who is more than whom, because the degree of proximity– the degree of proximity– is not measured with the blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah; it is measured with the vote [[some applause]] ; when people are women it is when they vote, not when they speak, when they vote – when they vote. [[Widow's remorse.]] Exactly. This is when people are mules. And, look, I feel it, but, of course, I already know that Catalonia has fifteen fiscal figures, yes, but always, always, always, always, those that cannot be touched are the IRPF and the inheritance tax, which, incidentally, are the two taxes with which we have regulatory capacity, more capacity for recaptancy and which touch the higher returns. Because, look, your problem is that they don't want to touch the high renders – they don't want to touch the high renders. Because you speak: Catalonia pays more taxes than anyone else. Liar. There are autonomous communities where you make them high pay much more taxes than in Catalonia. The property tax at the maximum type, does not pay Catalonia; the property tax at the maximum type they pay to Valencia, Balears and other autonomous communities that have a maximum type over that of Catalonia. I, mirin, if not, take the ciphers: València, the 3,12; Catalunya the 2,75. Therefore, look if we have margin; look if we have margin to record higher yields. And I also want to say to the lords of Ciutadans: a thousand times more – I look at what I say to them –, a thousand times more Robin Hood before the lord sheriff Abascal and the two palm trees of Ciutadans and the PP, who are the ones who have approved the tax reductions in Andalusia, that we will see what happens with the recaptation, because in Andalusia what will happen is that the recaptation will go down and you will destroy the public servants of the hand of the lord sheriff Abascal, that this is a sheriff and not the Robin Hood. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.143.0	We called for a vote. Yes, Mr. Vice President, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.144.0	According to the Rules, the government can intervene. Therefore, I would ask to be able to intervene.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.145.0	Okay. You're aware that it's a replica, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.146.0	Yeah, in soc.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.147.0	All right. Go ahead, then. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.148.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.149.0	One moment; one moment, Vice President. Quiet, and please. [[Pause.]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.150.0	Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking, in agreement with the Rules, which allow the Government to intervene at any time in the debate, to make some points that I consider absolutely necessary in this debate on taxation and assumptions. It has been done to electoral programs and proposals of the year 2011 and 2012, and I thank you for this, Mr. Cid, because it gives us the opportunity to explain what has been done since the year 2011 and 2012. Because you started asking questions about what had happened since December 2015. He left himself three years in the middle. Three years ago, there was a real fiscal reform that was done by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union, that was done by the Government, with Councillor Mas-Colell, and that I, as responsible, as a deputy of the economy at that time, also with Councillor Elsa Artadi – she was Director General of Taxes –, carried out a thorough fiscal reform. It will increase the capital charge, which allows us to collect more than EUR 500 million. There are other communities that have it suppressed; communities that compete with us in capturing talent and high returns. There was an increase in the type of legal documents: EUR 91 million more to be recapped under the above assumptions. It increased the tax on hydrocarbons: 115_million euros, in the last assumptions, of increase of recaptancy. The tax on large commercial establishments was reformed: an increase of EUR 15 million. The capital transfer charge has increased from 8 to 10_per_cent: 245_million euros. We made the reform of the inheritance tax, the year 2014, which will allow an increment of 140_million euros. The audiovisual tax has been created, which we will recover – we will recover – once again the Constitutional Court, with a very tight majority, has decided to cancel; it will recover much more legally robust. It created the deposit of empty habitats, which the Constitutional has validated. The tax was created in beguds with excess sugar. The tax on emissions, storage and transport of radioactive elements from the nuclear industry. In total, figures that have been created that allow, allow us to have approved assumptions, an increment of 100_million euros. Therefore, Catalonia has made an appeal in the matter of taxation. Now, where do we have to go? It has to be done at the state level. And it has to be done at the state level even more by taxing the returns of capital in the IRPF – even more. It's got to be done. And we also understand that if we want to maintain a competitive economy, an economy that is also capable of attracting talent and being competitive in this area, we must demand, at the corresponding levels, that the tax figures that they touch are believed to be. We need to move forward with a harmonised corporate tax at European level. It may penalize the tax dumping that is being done to us with the inheritance and donation levy in other territories. Therefore, it is fundamental, we understand, not to lose sight of who this environment is. But it is also important, since it has been mentioned that the elements that are conducive to this debate, that we have had presuppositional negotiations..., of the more than two meetings that we have made with your group in presuppositional matters, you have explained some shortcomings, in your opinion, that you have the presupposition. And, obviously, lacks, in the presupposition, there will always be, because the economic resources are finite by nature, and the question is to prioritize. But it has been said that there will be more than EUR 1,660 million for the departments, which we can place, if you are willing to agree on a presumption, if you are willing to allow the processing of this presumption, and not just a parliamentary group but the assembly of the chamber, we believe that it allows for a great political agreement to allow the processing of the presumption, which allows us to complete with the forecasts that we have at this time, that the proper presumption can allow an increase in the current endowment of the Teaching Department, more than a 9_per_cent; more than a 9_per_cent, also in the Department of Treball, Social Centers and Families; the increase of more than EUR 500 million in the tax relief of the industry; the recovery of the good industry; Therefore, I believe that this must also be placed on the table, and we are prepared to reach the maximum agreement. It must also be explained that the proposal for a budget, which many of the parliamentary groups are aware of because we have repeatedly explained it, re-emphasizes the Generality in the financing of municipal schools. Not as much as we want, right, but it's a first step. And, therefore, I do the opposite that they help us to improve it. And what we have with other instruments to boost some areas we cannot get from the presuppositional direct margin, but with other instruments of the Generality, such as housing policies, and I would like to quote, in this case, the line of 250_million euros that our public bank, which the ICF has promoted, of credits for joint ventures and for social housing promoters. Therefore, it is at their hands to process this assumption. So, when you say information, I think you have to say it all. And that was the motive for my intervention. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.151.0	Thank you, Vice President. I look forward to the time the Vice-President has had, I will give one minute for each parliamentary group; one minute, obviously for each sub-group. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That's what they correspond proportionally, Mr. Cid. We will do so, if it seems to them, by the same order of intervention of the defence of the motion, whenever the parliamentary groups actually want to intervene. So, we'll start with Mr. Cid. (Founding voice)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.152.0	I thank you, President of Parliament, for extending the speaking time. Thank you. Miri, I also know how to read the DOGC, huh? And, therefore, I am pleased that you have quoted all the taxes that Mr. Mas-Colell modified. Maybe in the end we'll end up being more like Mr. More-Collel than you. It'd be... [[relays]] It'd be fun. In the end, the one we're talking about: successions and IRPF yes or no? And I'll tell them again, who will they vote for today? We'll see about that. Listen, you're talking about 1,600 million euros more. The 1,600_million euros more you know that they already have compromises and that they are, for example... If you, you know, because the monthly performance report does very well, you. So, if we take the presupposition paid out of 2018, we'll have them spent, these 1,600_million euros more. So, if that's all you're explaining, why not? Is it true, how are we so far away? How is it that no of the measures that we are putting on the table at the end are buying them at the meetings we have? You're talking about two meetings. Yes, yes, if they are explaining many things to us, but of the concrete measures that we propose to them, not one. Practically, not one, and, some, we'll see if they're complete, because I have the feeling [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] that their assumptions, more than real assumptions are fictitious assumptions or fake assumptions. And we'll see if some measures like, for example, extra pay...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.153.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.154.0	...of the employees, you can end up paying if you do not apply our tax measures that are being introduced. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.155.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Ms. Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.156.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Aragones, your seduction tactic isn't working out, is it? [[Rialles.]] Because he came here to try to seduce the lords of the commons. Yes, man, because I'm giving them support to his premise and because you're assuming that you did everything with Mr. Mas-Colell. That's to say, it's still more about Convergence and Union and not the matches that we're actually on the left. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, do a certain reflection – do a certain reflection. In any case, as always, as always ends with "we have no margin" – we have no margin and the margin was carried to the limit with Mrs Artadi. But you know what you should do, Mr. Aragones, I suggest you go to Madrid, negotiate the general assumptions of the State, talk to them about estates, talk to them about corporate tax and everything that can change there. If you negotiate it – if you negotiate it – and approve those assumptions, it is possible that things also work better here, among other things because we will have more tickets and we can devote more resources to social policies. So, it's okay with this announcement that you made us here with our young lady. An announcement, huh? , fantasistic about his assumptions, but I also recommend him [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] Come and meet us, so you won't only know Mr. Cid and the Catalonian bench in Comú We can all.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.157.0	Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.158.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.159.0	On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Lluís Salvadó. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.160.0	I'll do it myself to avoid going down. In any case, it seems that before the interventions so counterpossible that we have had a few moments ago, it seems to me that it is very appropriate to find this space of large and broad consensus on such an important issue as tax matter. On the part of the Ciutadans Group, there has been a reference to certain demagogic positions. I, it seems to me that we are all in agreement and it is important to listen to these reflections, but so magical is to say that pushing taxes is fantastic as planting, in an electoral way, that lowering taxes is a positive element. As in all life, in certain areas, pushing taxes is useful, it is necessary to avoid negative externalities of our society, our economy and other areas is not so good. In any case, to be precise – and I said so before – if anyone wants to vote against a proposal just to say 475.5. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] We don't agree, surely in the decimals...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.161.0	Mr. Saved.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.162.0	...and surely we would like to have the opportunity to discuss a better inheritance tax, but, as a minimum, let us discuss whether the decimals are the ones that touch or not.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.163.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Congresswoman Teresa Pallarès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.164.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice-President, with this turn we have managed to push the whole debate and, in a situation like this, many faces fall. And, therefore, this is not a question of the right or left but of bearing the best assumptions that exist in this house of ours. And, therefore, the assumptions of the Generality that we have to set aside for 80_percent of the social expenditure. At the time of the negotiation, you will see the priority and we will know from what song each of the parliamentary groups is. Look, some are more concerned about what happens in Madrid and what they have to do is focus on our home, on the citizens and citizens of Catalonia, which is our most important mission. [[Crits of "Very good!]] [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.165.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Martí Pachamé.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.166.0	Yes, thank you. Well, I'd like to tell you that the truth is that your own estate has always stood as a summer structure, never for a good for the citizenry. Their groups have only served to seek excuses, presenting taxes before the citizenry without taking into account whether or not these taxes were right. They were simply excuses to seek victimism. After all these deceptions, I'm sorry I told you, but you've lost credibility. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.167.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, Madam Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.168.0	Well, I don't know who they want to try to question you in the self-determination process of our people if you still keep the privileges of a few and continue to keep the tax burden on the popular and hardworking majority. And, secondly, thanks for the information you gave us in this Ple respect the assumption, because with us you haven't met.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.169.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.170.0	Thank you, President. God of October, counselor, do you hear anything? We're 24 generations old and he's going to talk about the assumptions that he doesn't seem to know anyone, even though Mrs. Romero I'm convinced not only that she'll know them soon but that she'll end up voting them favorably. [[Widow's remorse.]] Just as these groups ended up voting favorably for Mr Sánchez's assumption, there was no doubt about it. [[Widow's remorse.]] But as soon as we have a few seconds, counselor, and because I've just made myself clear...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.171.0	In fact, you've exhausted them, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.172.0	...our position in relation to more taxes, add five non-additional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.173.0	Thank you. Let's move on now, after this return, to this young man's vote. Is there a separate request for a vote? [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.174.0	Yes, separate vote, please, on items 1, 4 and 8.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.175.0	U, 4 and 8.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.176.0	You can't vote together, can you?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.177.0	So separate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.178.0	Yes, yes, separate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.179.0	Separate all three. All right. Some other petition. Yes, Mrs. Caula?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.180.0	I would ask you to vote separately from all points because I think there are many disagreements and you will agree with all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.181.0	All right, fine. So we vote point for point each... [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Excuse me. Yes, ma'am Sirvent? If it's by separate vote already as Mrs. Caula said, we'll vote separately, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.182.0	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.183.0	So, say, say.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.184.0	It's to read the point 4 before your vote, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.185.0	Point four, all right. All right, let's get to the vote. Let's start by voting point one. The vote begins. This point, point 1, was approved by 29 votes to three, with 94 abstentions. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. This was approved by 89 votes to 37, with no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 29 votes in favour, 97 against and no abstentions. Let's now vote point number four. Before, however, we would do the reading – yes, Mrs Segovia. Ask Secretary Pérez to read it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.186.0	« The Catalonian Parliament urges the Government to: 4. Promote a reform of the IRPF that affects only 2_percent of the population, in the same sense as the Government of the Valencia Country, where you make them more than 120,000_euros pay 25.5_per_cent, with the aim of reducing inequality and increasing the Generality's recapturation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.187.0	All right. Let's get to the vote on this point. The vote begins. This was rejected by 29 votes in favour, 63 against and 34 abstentions. Let's now vote point number five. The vote begins. This was approved by 89 votes to 37, with no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number six. The vote begins. Point 6 was rejected by 29 votes to 97, with no abstentions. Let's now vote point number seven. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 85 votes to 37, with 4 abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the 8th. The vote begins. This was approved by 123 votes in favour, against and three abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote on the new one and get out of this guy. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 29 votes in favour, 97 against and no abstentions. There's no more point in this young man. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the exercise of rights and fundamental freedoms]] [[302-00053/12]] So, let's move to the next point of the order of the day... [[Widow's remorse.]] And they ask that, if they have to get out of the hemicicle, they do it quickly and quietly. Thank you. [[Pause. The remorse of the voice persists.]] If they have to get out of the hemicicle, they do it quickly and quietly, please. [[Pause.]] The next item on the agenda is money, and it is the motion following the question to the Government on the exercise of rights and fundamental freedoms, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. Mr Carlos Carrizosa has the word to expose it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.188.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this motion we have eleven points to vote. It used to be said here by a Member that the moment of truth is when you vote; that many things are said, but we portray ourselves when we vote. And I want to see the House here today also reflect on the violation of the fundamental rights of Catalans, on which side we are Members when we defend Catalans, when their rights are violated. And there are some points that I consider very important. One: are we going to support in this Parliament when the President of the Generalitat says to the CoRs,'squeeze, press for them to violate the rights of Catalans, so that they cannot take their children to school, so that they cannot go to hospitals, so that they cannot do, develop their lives normally? Are we going to back this up? For we, from Citizens, ask that these words be condemned by Parliament. Just as we ask for something very basic, which is that, when a President of the Generalitat takes Slovenia's conflict as a model, Parliament pronounces itself and disallows such words spoken by a political leader. Because they're words that attack coexistence, they're not welcome. And that is why we want parliamentary groups to dissuade, to give another path, to teach the way of coexistence to those leaders who, because of their radicality, are distinguished by comments absolutely..., who do not have any kind of pass. The point number 5 of the motion precisely distanced everything that happened in Catalonia from what happened in Slovenia, distanced us from a pernicious model that broke with coexistence and even reached the armed conflict. Another group of proposals that we are voting on today is when we call for the condemnation of the violence of those who prevented people from exercising their fundamental right to the meeting. When a demonstration by bilingualism or by the police, the National Police or the Civil Guard, turns out to be broken up by violent people, the Parliament of Catalonia must pronounce itself. You don't have a pass not to do that. That is why we will ask for that point to be read, so that we know which Members of Parliament are in favour of the citizens' right to demonstrate, whatever issue they wish to express themselves on. [[Greetings.]] And we're on. With what happened on 21 December, which affected the rights of Catalans, which involved road cuts, railway cuts, closures of educational centres, closures of medical consultations, chaos, injuries, violence, altercations..., we want Parliament to detect this impairment of the rights of Catalans, and also to say that it demarcates, that that was not right, that was not correct. Another set of points focus on the responsibility of the Government. That was not free, that was not by the work and grace of organized radical, separatist, anti-democratic groups that do not want to let others lead a normal life, but rather want to influence for political reasons. That was not just those groups, it was the Government, which acted as head of the CDRs, which sponsored, encouraged and ultimately did not prevent everything that happened on 21 December. That is why we condemn on the one hand the 21st of December and demand that the Government not do this again..., to commit similar acts, such as encouraging and then not remedying when the rights of fellow citizens are violated. And finally, the responsibility of Mr Buch and the Director-General of the Police in much of these events, in what is the direction of the Mossos d'Esquadra, in what is politically marking a body of extraordinary professionals, of professionals who serve with neutrality and equanimity to all Catalans, and unfortunately they meet with political leaders who want to turn them into a political police. That is why you hid very serious facts in which some officials of the Mossos d'Esquadra were wounded, and we did not find out until a few days later. That is why you are directly responsible, for encouraging your government and then not using the Mossos to prevent the rights of Catalans from being violated. It's you, you, Mr. Buch, and the Director General of the Police...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.189.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.190.0	... those who deserve Parliament's reprobation and who vote on their dismissal. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.191.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia and in order to defend the protest presented, the Member of Parliament, Alejandro Fernández, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.192.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, we have tabled an amendment to emphasize, to try to improve the text in relation, indeed, to the pressure of violent groups; which, as I pointed out yesterday, is usually characteristic of authoritarian systems by trying to separate conventional democratic institutions and replace those with parallel ones. And we've lived examples of that in Catalonia lately. We have seen how explicit orders have been given not to act on legitimate law enforcement, called "Mossos d'Esquadra", while, encamping at large, the CoRs were working to pressure judges and prosecutors at their homes; to threaten and even assault law enforcement officials; attacks on the headquarters of constitutionalist entities and political parties; an attempt to assault the Parliament of Catalonia, which fortunately did not succeed; the totalitarian use of public space, which should be everyone's, or the occupation without any democratic control of infrastructures or of the means necessary for the mobility of people. That, not controlling such expressions is typical, I insist, of authoritarian systems that try to manage society apart from previous democratic institutions. It is an absolutely unacceptable practice and we wanted to highlight it as an addition to this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.193.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Eva Granados has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.194.0	Thank you, President. Counselors... Citizens complain all day that groups that support the government are all day talking about the process. And we too... we don't like to waste time. But it is that you do the same; it is that you dedicate all the times of intervention, when you play and when you don't play. Yesterday we were talking about public services, and Mrs. Arrimadas also devoted herself to talking about the process. And what we regret is that, in the end, the only answer we are finding on the part of Citizens is the trifulca, it's the sham, it's the sham on the monotheme. And we would like, instead of having a political project that is based on the sham, and already..., to hear from the most important group of the Parliament of Catalonia alternatives, proposals, to get out of the mess. And I think it's a shame. And I think it's a shame, those of you who voted for you and those of you who voted for other political formations, that we're still trapped on that screen of the game, right? Let's keep talking about DUI, another talking about 155 perpetual... And I don't think we should go there, either: neither DUI nor 155. And there they go. Look, we have a histrionic government, we agree; a government that makes great declarations, but that are empty declarations, about independence, about self-determination..., totally empty. Today we have heard President Torra speaking again not well known if of the DUI. But, you see, they are respecting the laws, they obey interlocutors, they go to the Constitutional Court to denounce each other. So back to the DUI, I don't think that's a good idea. Look, before we listened to Mr Pujol with a very heated speech, but then we listened to Mrs Pallarès, who was talking about when the model of economic financing will be negotiated. That is the Government we have right now. And I think that the Catalans who voted for Citizens and other political groups, I think they are a little tired of so much shouting; shouting for independence but also shouting for the main group in this Parliament, and I think they are asking us, that group of citizens, to move on to another stage, perhaps to a more constructive phase. I think Mr. Carrizosa's motion today has grown old badly, hasn't it? , that you raised it and came here to ask the Councilwoman of Justicia to seek literals for the complaint that they presented to the government just before Christmas. And unfortunately for her interests, the councilwoman, therefore, did not give her those literals, did not give them because they continue in the argument that they now have, in this new season of the process, that Spain is not a democracy, is what we are now accustomed to this part of the bench, that they are repeating us over and over again. And we know that Spain is a social and legal state, and we know that it is a full democracy, perfectable as all, but it is a full democracy. But here the question that I think we have to ask ourselves today is: what can we expect from Citizens, if we continue to feed the independentist discourse and not even sit down at a table to talk about... Remember, on January 16 five committees were suspended here because the groups that support the Government and also the commons decided to make a partisan use of the Parliament, and we complained, and you, the citizens' ladies and gentlemen, also complained about that paralysis, because there was a partisan use of this institution, of the Parliament. But it is that you come today and do the same thing that the independenceists are doing again. You are also making a partisan use of this Parliament. And we don't want to feed the frentism, and you continue to feed the frentism. They feed it, but they feed it Citizens too. I know, what the motion says, Mr Carrizosa, has already been qualified. We agree, the public services have to be maintained, we have to guarantee mobility, the Mossos is a professional body that we must respect and maintain, we don't like when Torra talks about encouraging the CDRs, but, listen to me, lowering the tension is everyone's job, also yours. And we have the feeling that this motion is like..., it looks like you're not coming today as a citizen spokesperson but you're coming as a spokesperson for that recent right-wing alliance, right? Let's see who says she's fatter. And Citizens is there, and it's a pity, because I think it would be more useful that Regenerative Citizens who raised us one day and not continue with the blocks and confrontation. Look, the PSC is, like President Sánchez, looking for ways of dialogue from the law, to overcome that situation, and there we are. And to overcome this sad, clumsy, disappointed Catalonia, we can't change half by half, gentlemen of Citizens, that doesn't work. Catalonia of all needs us all, and that's why we need to talk. So, I think it's better than Citizens...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.195.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.196.0	...leave the demolition mark and we'll find a construction citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.197.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is now the return of Mrs Elisenda Alamany.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.198.0	When I read this motion for a resolution I thought that if the text of this motion came to someone in the street I wouldn't know if it was a proposal from the PP, from Vox or directly if it was news from OK Diario. You were born a long time ago, you're a parliamentary group... you're a party that we could say is relatively new, that you were born a short time ago, right? Twelve years ago, but we could say it was a while ago. But, as much as they say, that's what we are, I think they're very old, because the new policy doesn't deal with racist parties, because it doesn't deal with anything that's as old as masculinism, because it doesn't support corrupt governments, and because it's not the political representative of economic elites and the establishment. That's not very new. You're the party that won the election, they say many times. They are the Parliament's most prominent parliamentary group. I did not vote for Mrs. Arrimadas – logically we have absolutely nothing in common – but, still, it is true and it is clear that she is the largest parliamentary group in the institution. I from the majority group in the Parliament of my country would expect one more miqueta – one more miqueta. I wouldn't expect more than to bring proposals like this or teach posters to the Ple. We're still waiting for a political proposal, a proposal that goes further than raising a billboard where 155 is read. Solvency is not a matter of saying it, nor just of looking it. And I don't know if proposals like these, which look like OK Diario bullshit, are the best political contribution you can make to the country. You were chosen as representatives in this Parliament to do politics, to put forward political solutions, but I have come to the conclusion that you do not put them because you do not have them – because you do not have them. And as they don't have it, they draw an apocalypse that they face there, because this is the proposal of the apocalypse where you talk about social chaos, intimidation, threats to the realization of peaceful demonstrations and protests. And do you know where I see a threat to living together? We see the threat in the coexistence in corruption that you have sustained for years supporting the governments of the People's Party in Spain, plunderers of public archives, of the people's butxaques. I see the threat to the coexistence of hatred that you are going to do with Vox in Andalusia, a counter-formation to the embodiment of rights and freedoms, racist, xenophobic, authoritarian, counter-equality between men and women. But we're moving on. Where do we see the threat to coexistence, too? We see the threat to coexistence with the only social fracture that exists in Catalonia, which is said to be inequality. An inequality that does not exactly occupy the centre of your political agenda, because despite the fact that you came to the elections saying that you wanted to end the monotheme of the process, the reality is this: that most of your interventions are a loop on the process. But you know that. And, finally, do you know where I also see intimidation and threats? When the Police Intelligence Brigade calls in the morning at the door of mayors and activists and stops them. A journalist, various students and workers, as well as two mayors, were assaulted in the first hour of the morning by hooded men and armies. They were handcuffed and taken to jail without a prior court order. Ciutadans' proposal to guarantee rights and freedoms is that we return to the past. But I suggest that we look forward to the future, because we have a lot of work to do. That's obvious. To stop looking at the past and looking at the future means, for example, that the PSOE makes a point and apart from the inertia imposed by the People's Party and that it is not complicated by the right. To stop looking at the past also implies that the sovereignism has to review the strategy that has had us so far here, to review the errors so as not to be weaker again before the repression of the State. Stop looking at the past and build a new future also means demanding that we build large majorities in Catalonia to advance in our right to decide and freely build our future. To look at the future also means to assume that politics has to advance at the same pace as society, to hear that the response manual that has had to us here no longer serves the country that we have in front. A new future is not written without us renewing politics, without obviously building a new policy, and that is offering solvent responses to a company that has changed a lot over the past few years, but I'm afraid that's not what we're going to do back in the past, we're not going to debate star proposals and, above all, we're not going to teach posters. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.199.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, it is now the return for Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.200.0	Thank you, President. From the escó. Miri, before this young man, tell them clearly that they will not pass, they will not pass so much if they go in uniform daytime as if they go out of night blowing cars in villages, in municipalities like that of Verges. We tell them, even though they don't like to feel it, that indeed, the streets will always be ours. And tell them that we are working to build a country, a country in which you, late or late, will live, I hope that more than not later, a country that will be truly democratic, that will be truly democratic and in which everyone – also you – will be able to enjoy fully social, civil and political rights, and in which everyone – also you – will be able to exercise freely the democratic right to self-determination. And I assure you, this, if it's up to us, will be more time than not later. A country for everyone, where everyone can truly enjoy civil, social and political rights, including the right to self-determination, also you. A democratic country absolutely for everyone. And also tell them that it will be a country... that we want a country where, effectively, clearly and clearly, fascism does not exist, where fascism does not have space or time to live. And, as for the intervention of the Socialist Party, tell them that we are neither sad nor chrispad; joyful and combative. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.201.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.202.0	Thank you, President. A little more, huh? One more time we find ourselves here to debate the Ciutadans report, this narrative that we already know so well, that it only has as its objective to criminalize some ideas, mainly those of Catalan republicanism, and if it can, moreover, keep the atmosphere of permanent social conflict open. We're used to it. Every time they beat the crap out of what they're trying to do. You are alluding to protecting the rights and fundamental freedoms of all Catalans, persecuting, as they literally say to the youth, social movements and political dissent, or identifying those responsible for violent and coercive acts. Do they really believe that they guarantee rights by pursuing and suppressing ideas with which they disagree? Is that his concept? In a democracy one must be able to manifest the discomfort, the social discontent, the criticism, the complaint... It is obvious, I would not say it or remember it. Keeping in mind the status quo is what makes companies move forward. Rethink the history, ours and that of all democraticly advanced societies, that of the United Kingdom, that of the Nordic countries, that of France, that of Italy, ours... There will be the same word: mobilizations, demonstrations, waves, interruption of public and private services, exercise of the rights denied, negotiation, agreement and jump to collect. This is also what we are doing today in Catalonia. September 2018 did not produce any violation of the right of demonstration, or of the demonstrators, as you say, in defense of bilingualism or the support of security forces and bodies. The two events took place, thanks to the management of the Government of the Generality under difficult conditions, which guaranteed them, both of which were guaranteed and were hard to achieve, so that no non-existent realities were invented. On 21st December, a demonstration was called perfectly within the framework of the right of assembly and demonstration to protest against the judicial repression in Catalonia, against the situation of exceptionality that he saw with regard to the declaration of civil and political rights to our country and to show the disagreement with the Spanish Government, which came to meet precisely one year after the application of Article 155 and the dissolution of the Government of the Generality and Parliament and the imposed elections. It is clear that there have been problems of movement and mobility, as is the case with any social protest, any vagueness, any open situation of demonstration of new aspirations. The right-of-the-way is this. The right of protest is exactly that. As has happened, as has happened so often, with the waves of the metro or the train, or with the wave of professionals of the sanitation, or with the wave of taxis that we have just lived. The measure of a democracy is this, it is to know how to endure and manage this type of situation, this type of protest, as it continues to pass to France with the groves the last few weeks. But as his object is to criminalize the independence movement, there's no problem for you with making up all sorts of accusations, including terrorism. But we have the full history of it, from accusations of terrorism to social, civic and political movements: Nelson Mandela's National African Congress, or Putin's Russia, which instrumentalizes the law to accuse foreign agents and terrorists of NGOs and civil rights activists, etc. In this criminalization process, yesterday, Mr. Carrizosa, you used this free How Democracies day, huh? , by Professors Levitsky and Ziblatt, to accuse us again of strikes. I believe that you yourself did not derive from the irony that, while you did, it was you who illustrated the attitude that this book criticizes. It was exactly this, what you were doing, it was embodying the political subject that the book describes: describing your rivals as subversive, describing political rivals as criminals, as transgressors who deserve disqualification... I would say that you with this book are making it a manual of use for you, of authoritarianism against democracy. That's what's going on in this country, authoritarianism is you, it's the block of 155 together, to a certain extent, but you're at the front with a certain distance. We want a constitutional change and we'll push it forward. Miri, Mr Carrizosa, I propose to you, back, come to the Civil Rights Commission that this Parliament has just set aside on the proposal of the President. Stop arguing against the Speaker of Parliament [[remorse of the voice]] , preventive, before anything happens. They don't make up the pre-emptive lawsuit, which is already the bottom line. They come to this committee of civil rights, and there, for example, they will be able to listen, because we will invite them, the authors of this book. And that's where we'll have the opportunity to debate what civil rights are going to say in Catalonia today, what do you mean, actually? [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] defense of the right of protest, freedom of expression...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.203.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.204.0	...and the collective rights of a country like ours. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.205.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya has the word, now, the deputy Mr Francesc Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.206.0	Thank you, President. President Torra, « the truth needs to be told because if it is not said it does not exist. It's a phrase that we can all take from us like the chaplain phrase of the enyorada Maria Aurèlia Capmany. Therefore, they invent, insult, fabulin, lie, menystinguin; but, like at least, the deputies and deputies of Junts for Catalonia will always find them trying to search, say and defend the truth. And the truth goes on, for example, not to name your motion on the exercise of rights and freedom of speech. The truth would be that his young lady was entitled: "Catalog of proposals from Ciutadans for the spread of civil and political rights. In one case six right-wings have been charged, "six right-wings have been called, which would say my daughter's right to freedom of speech, right of association, right to gather, right to protest, right to political participation and right to a just trial. Six. Mirin, you know we're voting no, but you don't even think we're going to debate lies or right-wing detail. Parliament has the first approved democracy. Independence in Catalonia, fortunately, is at the heart of an essential idea: the promotion, knowledge and recognition of human rights, all for everyone. Without human rights, without respect for the essential democratic principles, any political project should be impossible. And some have identified that the oxygen of independence is precisely this: the defense and promotion of human rights and respect for the essential democratic principles. And that's why they put them in the spotlight. You have, yes. What if I had to lie about Slovenia? He's a liar. What about reinventing history and oblivion that the most outstanding European intelligence was at the side of the Slovenians? So it's fa. If we want to lie and forget that democratic Europe costs this future new state, it is done. But the truth is coughing, and so is the hemerotec. I found them an article, dated July 13, 91, published in El País – a little suspicious, huh? – and the author was in Milan Kundera, one of the European intellectuals of reference. I l'article es titulava« We must save Slovenia, i deia: « I hear about the old demons of nationalism and, however, during this century several European nations have become independent: the Norwegians, the Irish, the Poles, the Hungarians, the Romanians, and today they constitute the beautiful diversity of a Europe unimaginable without them. His patriotism has always been based not on an army or a political party, but on culture, and especially on literature. His greatest personality is not a warrior or a preacher, but Prešeren, the great romantic poet of the first half of the 19th century. Do whatever it takes to save Slovenia. Are you against this? Are you against what Milan Kundera wrote? Don't they like what the Slovenians did? Because the alternative is what Milošević did. And all this lying about the Slovenian way, that some have fallen from four pots, does not see on the Slovenian way itself, but it sees the rage of a new international success of President Torra, as it was a week ago the trip to the United States. [[Greetings.]] Because when President Torra was interviewed by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, they talked about the legitimate President of Catalonia, and they knew he was in exile. And when President Torra interviewed the President of the Parliament of Slovenia, they knew that the legitimate President of this Parliament is in prison. And that's what you can't stand. And he travels the world to dialogue, to make politics, to promote human rights, forms part of the DNA of independence, but he should be part of the DNA of any political formation. Do it, why don't you try? We have told them many times: they consider themselves to be a certain idea of Spain, legitimately, magnificently, if I may; but defend it, defend it from this perspective of human rights and essential democratic principles. They can't defend the idea of a state in which from the highest representation of this state, which is the Spanish king, until the last police officer destined for Girona is boasting of carrying the human rights. History shows us that authoritarianism and, in particular, fascism, if we don't put them in the face, it's not boring. And that as in Niemöller's poem, "if we don't pose remei, it ends up affecting us all. Either we stop the lies and authoritarianism of fascism or they'll end up affecting us all. Also to you and also to the people who vote for them. A few days ago in Madrid his leader, Albert Rivera, received more verbal violence and insults than fortunately he would ever receive in Catalonia. What part of this catalanophobia is his fault when someone tells him catalan shit? Tell the truth, don't cheat, and, above all, don't cheat. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.207.0	Thank you, Congressman. It has the word, to pronounce on the papers presented, the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.208.0	Thank you, Mr. President. With regard to the amendments, I would like to thank the People's Party for the compromise it has made with one of the amendments it has tabled to us concerning the censorship of President Torra's attitude, and in general speaking of Slovenia, and for tightening the CoRs. And then regret those amendments that have not been tabled. The Socialist Party will vote that not on several of the points that will substantially censor the attitude of this government when it violates the fundamental rights of Catalans, when it encourages it, when it prevents the state security forces and bodies from guaranteeing these rights, and socialism refrains from submitting any kind of amendment and will simply vote no; but that is absolutely compatible with the closed defense made by the spokesman for Mr Torra's Socialist Party. And as you defend it because the Government of Spain really needs to continue in Moncloa with the votes of those who want to break Spain [[remorse of the voice]] So here's how we are, with socialism whitening and defending those who spend the money of all Catalans on embassies or lobbyists in Washington to comply with the law. If that's legal, if that's law enforcement, then you'll tell me what concept you have to fail to comply with. And as for Podemos he does not deserve much comment because of all it is known that it is the crutch of separatism and, therefore [[remorse of the voice]] So shut them down. You yourself, Mrs. Alamany, are separatist and seem very good to you and you are with your friends at the CUP. [[relays]] and with Mr. Torra, famous for his xenophobic and supremacist articles. And, to conclude, Mr. Francesc de Dalmases, you were blowing up the manifestation of bilingualism with Mrs. Madaula, yes or no? [[Widow's remorse.]] Were you one of those who were there precisely preventing Catalans from manifesting themselves...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.209.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.210.0	...for what they wanted?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.211.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.212.0	Well... that's the explanation why they're going to vote...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.213.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.214.0	...in the sense they will. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.215.0	Separate votes were requested from points 3, 5, 11 in block, and 4 and 6 in block as well. Any more separate voting petitions? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, ma'am Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.216.0	Point 5, separate, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.217.0	So we'll make four blocks. First, we will vote on point 5 separately, points 3 and 11 together, points 4 and 6 together and then the rest of the motion. Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. Let's start the vote. We'll start by voting point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been rejected by 62 votes in favour, 64 against and no abstentions. Let's now vote points 3 and 11 together – 3 and 11 together. The vote begins. Points 3 and 11 are rejected by 54 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. Let's now vote in bulk points 4 and 6 – 4 and 6. The vote begins. Points 4 and 6 were rejected by 37 votes to 72, with 17 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Pardon me... One moment... – one moment, one moment – the vote has not begun. Secretaries... had been asked to read. He didn't remind me of that again. What's the point? [[Pause.]] Point 2. So, now that we're voting on the rest of the motion and, therefore, including point 2, we're reading this point, if Secretary García..., if he wants to read it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.218.0	« The Parliament of Catalonia. Two: It finds that during the month of September 2018 there was a violation of the right to demonstration of groups or associations in defense of bilingualism in Catalonia or in support of the forces and security forces of the State, who were prevented from carrying out their legally authorized demonstrations, by the presence of separatist groups that violently prevented the exercise of that right, and condemns the exercise of that violence, demanding the Department of the Interior to guarantee the constitutional right to peaceful assembly and demonstration of any ideology.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.219.0	All right. Now, yes, let's vote on this point and the rest of the points that remained to vote on the motion. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 37 votes in favour, 89 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into vocational training]] [[302-00048/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, which is the 20th, and it's the Movement following the Government's inquiry into vocational training, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. To expose her, has the word Mr. Ramon Swordler. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.220.0	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President of Parliament. Honourable Councillor, honourable Councillors and Councillors, will remember that in the late Ple, just before the break period of Nadal's holidays, we were going to ask the Government about vocational training. We did this with a critical point – we did this with a critical point – because we believe that there is a glue of well-aligned factors that should allow a powerful deployment of professional formation in some of its most important expressions, such as dual professional formation, to be given by the Government through a widely-consensual law, and there is a consensus outside the Parliament in the context of the socio-economic world – that is to say, of entrepreneurs, trade unions, employers, to deploy this – we thought, therefore, that the effort, that the government's work was clearly – clearly – insufficient. We made this complaint, and today we made an inquiry. But already at that time of the inquiry we meant that we didn't just stay, so with the toilet, with the criticism, but that we wanted to do it on purpose. Because we believe that it pays to continue with great effort, to continue waiting for the government and to continue, therefore, working in the sense of the chamber unit to be able to do that the government, therefore, has done so very slowly until today, which is this deployment of the law. And the layout of the law, that's where the mociÃ©o focuses on, basically has three—three— great aspects. There is one aspect to the institutional architecture, with what the Government has to do and what it can do, which is basically to deploy the Catalan agency, which is the point of finding..., it seems to me that we define it in the inquiry as the real change in culture, because it unites the wishes of the Government of different departments that have so far worked in different directions, basically Teaching and Work, but because it also integrates the criteria of social agents, namely, unions, employers, the business world and a territorial vision. Therefore, the first one we ask of the Government and the proposal we have made is, therefore, that I have already completed this presentation with a term that is reasonable, not impossible. We believe that it can be done in three months; there is some counter-proposal on the part of the groups that support the government that..., we will advance it later, but in any case we would take it, because it seems prudent, reasonable, the term, therefore, from here to the summer. There are many other things that we believe can be done by the government, that can't wait; that can't wait, therefore, for the agency to be formally constituted, but that in parallel it can work in this direction. And I will not tell them all – you have the motion – but some of the most important ones. To bring legal security to the parties, to work in which the protocols must be, to work in which the set of protocols must be, to give security to all parties: to students who are in practice in dual vocational training, but also to the entrepreneurs who occupy and give work and learning, to ally these workers. There are a number of aspects that are related in the motion that are important. But we would particularly like to focus on one aspect that we have already tried to make manifest when we were going to make the inquiry, which is the importance of dual vocational training. This works in Europe; in particular, Germany is the leading country from many perspectives. Dual professional training, which allows practice..., not just practice, but integration of student training, colza-to-colza, with work centres, whether large businesses or micro-enterprises – because this is our reality as well – is stuck. And we reported at that time, therefore, that there was a certain paralysis. That the same government had an objective that we remind him of in this proposal, which was, therefore, to triple the offer. We have passed – and so the honourable counselor told us – to offer eight thousand and seven thousand, I think there were 8,022 seats, to make it a thousand and a few more. It's a clearly insufficient growth. He demonstrated, from our perspective, that the Government did not believe in dual vocational training, that it had not put its batteries in this sense. And, therefore, we also ask for it and give it some arguments; not the ones we say, but the same government of the Generality and the Council of Cambres de Catalunya, which inserts it that you see in the students who have finished dual vocational training is more than the ones who have finished ordinary vocational training. Therefore, it pays a great deal to make this effort in this sense of a round, courageous, convinced bet, agreed with the economic sectors, entrepreneurs and trade unions, and with the territory in dual formation. And then again: there's one last point that's as important as all the others, that I haven't told them in detail, that there's the necessary presuppositional entries, essential to be able to make this deployment. If it wasn't so, all the rest – all the rest – is a toast to the sun, including a point that we have given, so with the groups that support the government – and I thank them for the willingness of dialogue that we have found with all of them, on the proposal of the commons, things for their name, with the support of the Republican Group and the Junta Group for Catalonia – which refers to the elimination of taxes for the FP, in two exercises. We could have demanded that the government do it in a year, that you do it in a hurry, that you do it like that, that we do it in accordance with the fact that it is in two exercises, but that it is, in short, a reality. This requires, on the other hand, that the past of the young man's points is also complete, that the necessary presuppositional parties be enabled in the next assumption for such a front to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.221.0	Mr. Congressman, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.222.0	...all these... Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.223.0	Thank you. Then, to defend the papers presented, has the first word, for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Pomão, the lady Yolanda López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.224.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. From the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Puem, we share the desire of the PSC to finally deploy the Vocational Training and Qualification Act, which was adopted on 19 June 2015. So, therefore, we are glad that you come into this motion. This law has been, since then, practically forgotten in a drawer, almost four years later. The essential proposals have not been deployed, such as the deployment of the Professional Training and Qualification Agency of Catalonia, something that the law marked that was to be carried out before June 2016, and yet, today, the Government has only approved the agreement, and it did so last December, almost four years later. Nor do we have the assessment of the law, which should have occurred in 2018, but obviously, in the absence of its development, because it has been impossible to carry out last year, and because of the way this government has to work, we may not see it in 2019 either. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, this law is not paralysed only by the application of 155, this law is paralysed by the lack of political will and the lack of understanding between the departments of the Generalitat involved. And we're late, we're four years late. On the other hand, from Catalonia in Comú We also want to highlight how short this law remains. Measures must be put in place to ensure lifelong vocational training and thus combat job insecurity. These must be the priorities in order to ensure equal opportunities and improve the qualifications of the entire workforce. From Catalonia in Comú Puedes we believe that a quality FP..., clearly bet on the job placement and fight against the precariousness that in our country especially women and young people suffer; a dual FP that is not at the service of those companies that want to obtain benefits at the expense of labor exploitation and that has trade union organizations and the legal representation of workers. It is urgent that we dignify vocational training and equip it with the social recognition it deserves, if we really want it to be a key piece for youth emancipation, to combat early drop-out and to guarantee second chances. Education is a fundamental right of citizenship that must include, in a dignified and accessible way, all stages of people's lives, for which it is good to learn at any time, to integrate better into society, to be more competent, to change vital situations and to grow as a person. This must be done taking into account the whole territory, not only with a system of grants for transport and maintenance costs, but by decentralizing the centres and bringing vocational training closer to the territory and its productive fabric. And it is a pity that the motion before us today PSC does not refer to the elimination of the rates imposed by the Convergence i Union Government in 2012 on higher vocational training, demonstrating its elitist and exclusive conception of higher education. That is why the Catalonian Group in Comú Pomera has tabled an amendment on this, and we are glad that we have been able to reach an agreement with both PSC and Squerra Republicana to move the amendment forward. What vocational training needs today are resources to respond to the existing demand and that no person be expelled from the right to education due to lack of economic resources, which is what is happening in Catalonia with this government that does not govern.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.225.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It's the turn of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, and that's why Congresswoman María Luz Guilarte has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.226.0	Mr. President... Good afternoon, counselors, deputies. The motion that the PSC brings to the debate today calls for compliance with the basic points of Law 10/2015, on vocational training and qualification, which the Government, after four years dedicated exclusively to the process, does not have the slightest interest in deploying. In any case, we consider this to be a motion for a minimum, a motion to extend deadlines and not a real commitment to vocational training. Because the biggest problem of vocational training in Catalonia is that separatism is not interested in vocational training, or only when it can use it for the creation of chiringuitos where to reposition plugs, whose only merit is that of being active activists of the process. And this was demonstrated last November 6th in his appearance by the famous president of the Conseil Català de Formació Professional, Mr Fabià Mohedano, who is accompanying us today, former independent congressman who has an extensive career in the practice of repositioning. So much of the budget that should be allocated to train young people, taking into account that 85_percent of Catalan SMEs say that they have difficulty finding the job profiles they need, ends up in the salaries of the high-ranking positions that the independenceists share with the agencies, the institutes, the taules and the councils, in which they blatantly duplicate and triple empty functions of content. Look, in Catalonia we have an obsolete model of vocational training, which continues to manage and devote virtually the same resources as twenty years ago, and therefore does not respond to the challenges of the labour market that industry 4.0 brings with it. Experts warn that by 2035 65_percent of the jobs offered in Spain will be targeted at professionals in vocational training. However, last year in Catalonia there were 15_per_cent of students from the metropolitan area of Barcelona who could not study FP, due to the insufficient territorial offer. Many also have to move to centres far away from their homes and bear the costs involved, because scholarships are scarce. And although the job placement of vocational training is rising, especially the dual, which is 70_per_cent, in Catalonia only 3.4_per_cent of students attend this mode – which is the standard, by the way, in the European reference countries – i.e. about five_ thousand students, 120,000. This, gentlemen, is a ridiculous figure. Hence our amendment, which unfortunately has not been accepted and which proposed that in three years the dual modality be 50_per_cent of the FP, compared to what the PSC proposes, which in concrete figures would mean that in 2025 the dual FP is 10_per_cent of vocational training. It's still a tremendously ridiculous figure. Still, we will vote in favour, because it is worth too late, as is the case, than ever. We are, however, grateful for the acceptance of the amendments on the redefinition of current supply, the promotion of entrepreneurship and the promotion of technological studies among women. And as a demonstration that the separatist governments have done nothing for the FP we have a paradigmatic example of their ineptitude in the Automotive Training Center of Catalonia, which is in Martorell, which, because of the struggle that you have between councils to meddle in your governing and management bodies, continues without the specific training offer of the sector four years after being created at a cost of more than 23_million_de_euros; a center that should also be a reference in Spain of public-private collaboration with the automotive industry, which is the second productive sector in Catalonia. But what a pitiful image and precedent you are giving to the sector or to anyone else who thinks of such a collaboration with this Government! In addition, we have Mrs. Chacón, the Business and Knowledge Counsellor, saying that they do not need the companies that the process itself has expelled from Catalonia. And so, with a very high youth unemployment, golden opportunities are being lost for our young people to have competitive vocational training at a global level, which is in direct and cross-cutting contact with innovation, technology, business, university and research centres, which is the model that Citizens want for young Catalans, which will equate us to Europe and which will open up borders in globalisation. But this government only knows how to waste the money of all Catalans in republics that do not exist and thus hide their shortcomings and inability to face and manage the future of all Catalans; future where vocational training will be key to the employability of hundreds of thousands of young people, therefore, for the economic and social development of our autonomous community. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.227.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, also to defend the papers presented for the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the word deputy Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.228.0	Well, thank you. Councillors, Members, Members, Workers and Workers of Parliament, we are again with a motion respecting professional formation; a motion which, as Mr Swordler has said very well before, therefore, will end with an inquiry that was made in the plenary before the end of the year 2018. We have been working on various issues in the document, because, if it is true that the Member points out some elements that are interesting, and I believe that, in the end, this will be reflected in the agreements we have reached and in the approvals – that I am not fully convinced that they will be more than a majority – of these agreements. It's work that's already done, and it's work that's already moving forward. And I move, above all, to the area that concerns us most about all pleas, which is, logically, the deployment of the law. And, in order to deploy this law, Law 10/2015 of June 19, it is essential to have that element, that structure that will allow a leap forward in the field of vocational training, which is the agency; in effect, it is the agency. And this agency was the rovell of the or that we had not only in this young man, but it is the rovell of the or of the deployment of this law, because, accompanied by the agency, we will also have the council and, accompanied by the agency, we will have this cross-coordination between the two main areas at which this law is questioned, which is the area of work and is the area of education. Through this agency, we will have a permanent relationship with the socio-economic agents, who will allow us to vertebrate the appropriate proposals, both at the territorial level, as well as at the sectoral and professional level, which will allow us to give out young people, and not only young people, people of our country with adequate training for the jobs we will have in Catalonia. This agency, which is going to be great, will be a reality. And it will be a reality soon enough. What's obvious is that we're still talking about the past, the past and the past, but it seems to you that this government, that just as it's been a few months since it started to walk, now it has to solve all the problems of a shot. But we are fully aware that these problems are being resolved. Just as we are fully aware that in order to agree on the whole socio-economic sector, it is essential to have its concertation in order to establish the agency, dialog and this dialog requires time. And what we're very clear about and what we're asking the government is that this agency can only push when there's the necessary and solid foundation to be successful, successful and, for that reason, the most important thing is that these socio-economic agents are in full agreement, because they're the first to feel questioned, because they're the first to give out the proposals and the backs that our society poses and the same law. And that seems like some groups are oblivious to it. It seems that some groups think that we can get to the government and implement without consulting those who really need to make the success of the law possible. So, no, this government will not, because this government believes in the dialog, this government believes in the concertation, this government believes that the best way forward is from a broad consensus, from a general consensus among all the parts that need to be made possible. And we don't have to forget that the formatting cycles are also cabals – they are cabals – and proof of that is that they see that, in the next few months, they will move forward and a lot in the evolution of the formatting cycle of middle degrees, that they are the ones who need our focus and focus now, that in the next few months, they will move forward – and a lot – in the participation and promotion because the women study those cycles that are highly masculinized and those cycles that, above all, have to see – and a lot – with the industrial and technological field. But not only that, but also the same organization of the dual FP model is cabdal. It's not a 3_per_cent, it's a 10_per_cent and what we won't do is approve proposals to blow up pigeons, we can't approve that in a few months, we'll turn the double FP trout until we reach 50_per_cent, that's utopia. What we will do will be walk and reach this 50_per_cent in the proper terms. Therefore, these items respond to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.229.0	You're out of here, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.230.0	Yeah, I'm done. These items simply answer to put the dots on the is. And, logically, thank-it to the groups that have allowed to agree-it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.231.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. To finish this turn of the papers presented, has the word the deputy Lluís Font, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.232.0	Good afternoon, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Councillors, Mr. Mohedano, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. I would like to begin by thanking Deputy Ramon Swordler for his willingness to hear our reasons and to incorporate the contributions into the final text, which we will vote in favour. I begin by confessing that a separatist has always been interested in vocational training. Thirty-five years ago, when I started my professional career as a teacher at a polytechnic institute, I was captivated by what represented this professional formation. I have to tell you that, in this long period of time, FP has improved a lot in our country. I would not like to highlight in five aspects it has improved – in any case, we can talk about it on another occasion – but propose an analysis of why it has improved. It is obvious that the quality of the teaching, its technical and pedagogical formation has been great, that the educational community has been present, that the enterprises have been involved, but I would like to highlight an element, the educational administrations have maintained a line of continuity, they have given established at the conjunction of the professional training system, despite the political and ideological differences, they have brought the advantage of this and introduced specific elements, they have wanted to have this conductor wire there. International studies suggest that the quality of a system, in good part, depends on this, on its ability to stabilize, not to stay stagnant, but to be stable in the macro view to allow that in the concrete centres, in the educational networks there is an innovation that does not distort. And this applies to the whole system, but also to the FP. This was the first item I wanted to highlight. The second, it refers to the bet for the agency. We've heard from some people that we've spent time putting it in practice, that we've been slow... I think the new policy has a turn in this direction, we're used to distributing the skills to the administrations from empty compartments and the problems of that call for a more comprehensive treatment, being able to overwhelm the ordinary mark of our daily work to give a joint response. But that's not easy to do, because bugs in all administrations take us on a different path. And this is a very important exception. The agency represents a space of finding, against sectors of the productive, industrial and educational worlds, not that they juxtapose purely, but that they share logic, work in common and develop a project that gives answer to a problem, to an objective challenge. And, therefore, I would like to congratulate the counselor and the whole team very much, and also, obviously, the Counselor of Treball, because that was a dream, now, by the way, can be realized. Thirdly, I would like to comment that the integration of training subsystems, of regulated training, of continuing training, of occupational training, has a logic, which is to offer personalized formatary itineraries, because young people or not so young find themselves in the system where they need to depend on their educational needs and also on the emerging demands of the labour sectors. This claims versatility in the system's conjunction and also demands this cure to facilitate the transfer of one and the other. I think the agency can only help us move forward in this direction. How can it be, therefore, that a joint system that supplies thousands of students responds to concrete people's training needs? This, I would say, is the key back from the conjunction, and the FP, in this sense, is very qualified to do so. I would also like to comment that our teacher needs an up-to-date training, where the cross-sectional skills are capable, technical skills are not enough, intellectual work is not enough, we must be able to give answers to various realities, always thinking about the ability to continue training at the length of our students' lives. I, lastly, on dual vocational training. It's a good option, but it's not the only option. Germany and Austria are countries of a tradition, of a Lutheran culture, of a mentality, of an involvement of companies..., it cannot pass to little of the letter what is a foreign experience here. The comparative pedagogy does not consist in grabbing little of the letters that are done outside and dragging it here. That wouldn't be evidence, but it would be work...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.233.0	You're out of here, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.234.0	...from an occurrence. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.235.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, to fix his position, has the word MP Carles Riera, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.236.0	Thank you, President. Well, from now on, to say that we would vote separately, depending on the different points of the motion, so we would then ask for a separate vote. For the following reasons: we do not share the current model of professional training in Catalonia and therefore this young man understands that he wants to deepen and develop. A mixed system based on the coexistence of public and private and concerted centres. And precisely, in our home, in professional training, we have to recognize that the private and concerted sector has a very high profile. Obviously, if we want to solve the problems of vocational training and we want to place vocational training in a place worthy, relevant, important and at the level that corresponds to it, what we have to do is to create, precisely, a public system of universal and free vocational training for everyone; therefore, we cannot share proposals that they do is to deepen a model that we do not share. And, on the other hand, the same management model that is proposed, the idea of the agency. In the eighties, agencies began to be created with a very concrete purpose: the neoliberal reception of privatizing public services, beginning with a public-private management transition, and that's why the agencies were created, we don't fool ourselves. And it is obvious that, in view of this model, it is contingent, therefore, that it is intended to deepen in this idea of agency that we cannot share and, among other things, because we believe that the system of vocational training must depend, in principle or exclusively, on the Department of Education, then, with the coordinations that fall, but it must depend on the Department of Education. As a result, we will vote against all the points that go in this line, we will abstain in some, but we will vote in favour of all the other points that we consider that, in the margin of this debate, they do contribute to moving forward, if not in certain respects, in vocational training at our home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.237.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Finally, it is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia and, for this, has the word of the deputy Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.238.0	Thank you, President. We will give support to this young man. And we will do so because the model of vocational training, vocational training has a double virtuality, of one band, has shown a degree of insertion of students high enough and, therefore, from the point of view of improving and facilitating the employability of young people has been a good tool and, for another band, it has also been a good tool, on the part of enterprises, to obtain, therefore, workers specialized in certain fields. And, therefore, from this double feeding to improving the occupation and also improving the occupation of enterprises we understand that it is a good tool. We also believe that we need to deepen further into dual professional training. And, obviously, the government has all the time in the world to develop the 2015 law, but the issue is this, it's that they're already three and a half years old, and it's not that there's any press or no press, it's that after three and a half years, it seems that too much has not progressed in this sense, and therefore we think it's important to do so. And, for that Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.239.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Finally, to pronounce on the papers presented, has the word, for the proposing group, the deputy Ramon Espadaler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.240.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The groups have the papers we've accepted. To make a quick reading, let's trade the Junts' first item for Catalonia and the Republican Left, which modulates the deployment term of what the agency is. It seems to me to be an important aspect. The most salient is the abolition of taxes not in the terms that he strictly proposed, so the group of commons, but with a graduality of two years, I think it is the most salient. To explain the most relevant things of the Ciutadans Group, to whom I also thank the contributions that have made, therefore, to emphasize the topic of information campaigns to the students and the population, and, also, the aspect of being able to feminize those professional areas in which, therefore, there is not even the female presence that falls or that would be close to the heights that we are, and, in short, we have also rejected some of the papers. That is to say, what I would like to make clear is a thank you to all those parliamentary groups, without exception, which have made statements. They have all improved the text, and this is an objective reality, for the predisposition of all groups and the will, which has been shared by all, to continue making this area, therefore, an area of consensus, because we believe that this is good for the economy. And so also to those groups that did not speak out because they voted in favour of it, and so they expressed it. I, too, to those groups, therefore, who voted against it. But, if I may, Mr. Riera, a nuance: when you speak of dual formation, I think you've got it wrong. I think you were thinking about the public/concerted, or the public/private, and dual training has nothing to do with it, even though it can be taught in public and concerted centres; but in any case, we are talking about another issue. But, if I may, and I say it with sympathy, I am reassured that you, the CUP, do not support the totality of the points we propose. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.241.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. I think there has been a request for a separate vote. If we can specify five points, or all points of the motion... [[Pause.]] Do you ask the groups, then, whether there is any separate request for a vote? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] Mr Riera... they asked for a separate vote, I understand. How many points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.242.0	Miri... in fact, we would call a separate vote, president, from all points except 9 d bis, and 9 e bis. These can all be voted on together, 9 d bis and 9 e bis. The rest, it would be hot that it was a separate vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.243.0	I understand that separate means points and not subpoints, huh? [[Pause.]] Either way, separate each point and not the subpoints. Yeah? [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.244.0	In this case, subpoints should also be added.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.245.0	So are the subpoints.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.246.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.247.0	All right. So, we'll vote one by one for all the points and sub-points of this motion. We begin by voting on point 1 of the motion – point 1. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, point 1.1 we'll vote later, huh? We're voting only point 1. The vote begins. Point 1 was approved by 121 votes to four, with no abstentions. We now vote on point 1.1 – 1.1. The vote begins. Point 1.1 was approved by 122 votes to 4, with no abstentions. We're voting point 1.2 now. The vote begins. This point was approved by 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions; that is, unanimously. And now we'll vote on the new points together. Can you vote, you told me, Mr. Riera? [[Pause.]] Yes, dbis and e bis, which are the two points left to vote on the motion. *** The vote begins. These two points are approved unanimously, which means 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Excuse me, there was a point missing, which is the number two point. We're voting now on the number two point of the vote. The vote begins. This point was also approved unanimously: 126 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. And if we're not mistaken, there's no other point in this vote. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into contamination, air quality and public health]] [[302-00049/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on contamination, air quality and public health, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. To expose her, has the word Mr. Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.248.0	Counselor, Members, Members, I think we all know that we have a problem, a problem in the quality of the air, a quality of the air that is much better, no longer just around the metropolis of Barcelona, also around the metropolis of Tarragona, also in Girona, eh? – that we have some problems with some paper, with some stone –, also to comarques like Osona or Comarques del Prepirineu; contamination caused basically by the nitrogen dioxide, by the particles and by the tropospheric oze. Basically, we know that all the contamination that is produced in the area is the result of human activities, basically from industrial activity, also from transport, also from mobility, that they are the main focus that generates the contamination of the area and, therefore, from a quality of the area deficit. 90_percent of the metropolitan population is exposed at these times to levels of higher particles than recommended by the World Health Organization. Contamination episodes increase when pediatric respiratory consultations occur in an 8_per_cent. Recently, this week, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has also produced a report that says that anxiety, depression and lack of happiness is a good measure of air contamination. In Catalonia we already know that 3,500 premature deaths are due, precisely, to the lack of quality in the area, a hundred times more – a hundred times more – than traffic accidents. This has a huge human and economic cost, lost work days, congestion, millions of health care expenses. Therefore, I agree that the best quality of the area is one of the challenges we have as a society. The Socialist Group has already tabled three motions in the last two and a half years. On March 6, 2017, there was already a summit in Pedralbes where all the administrations involved in this problem, and to find a solution, they agreed to a follow-up of measures, but the coordination organ of this summit gathered twenty-one months after the summit. From our point of view, and I told you, counselor, in the inquiry, we believe that the incompliments of the Generality are flagrant, and the surprise was that at this coordination meeting you said that this was the fault of 155. Home, on the glue, huh? , that argument, counselor, deputies, deputies, doesn't fit into this topic, huh? We are convinced that we do not advance, that the Government of the Generality does not lead, that they leave everything, or good part, in the hands of the local administration. To Councilman Rull, in the previous interrogations they already asked that leaders, now we ask you, that I lead the policies. Some of the young lady's points, we'll repeat them again. Let's hope that if you approve this time, you pull them forward, fill them in, and don't let them out of their responsibilities. We want the government to bring an air quality law to this Parliament at the length of the year 2019. That at the length of this year they are updating the inventories of contaminating emissions from the territory of the country. That during the year 2019 approve the regulation of the Law of financing of the public transport system, a law that we approved in July 2015, with one year had to do the regulation and we carry two years ago and the delay is due to respect this topic. Coming at the end of three years, from our point of view, the automation of the data providing the stations of the surveillance network of the quality of the area, because, it is not that it is our way, it is that this is supposed to be transparency of the data, because we only find that the manual data that at these times are stuck, are from May 2018. And so there's no way to know what's going on in the country. That they create a line of economic support for the gatherings of more than 50,000 inhabitants, and to the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona to define jointly the areas of zones of low emissions or protected atmosphere. That the T-Mobility, 2019-2020, and that 2021 already has the new system of tariffs, beyond the current crowns, that enables us to work, precisely, for the benefit of public transport.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.249.0	Thank you, Congressman. It has the word, to defend the papers presented, in the first place and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà, the deputy Mr Ferran Civit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.250.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs, and also Counsellor Rull, therefore, since before Congressman Terrades has mentioned it, then, tomorrow I will also explain to him, when I visit him at Lledoners, a little as this debate has gone, this finding. That, of course, someone has left a pen here; lately, when I intervene here always someone is neglecting a pen, black and ESADE, so, if someone wants to collect it later, let him know, that they have left it here. First of all, thank you very much to Congressman Terrades, who already knows that from the last legislature, that we have agreed, so we always find points of support. We have presented joint reviews with Junts for Catalonia. We have agreed on some issues, we have not dealt with others, but we always find some lives in which we agree. And if some of us haven't dealt, then you know that, either they're due to form defects, or because some of them aren't assigned strictly by the Generality, or by some other reason that, later or later, we'll end up solving, and if you don't know what's going to end up like that. Also, I'd like to talk about the fact that... – and that is what Mr Terrades has also mentioned – indeed, the whole issue that we are talking about here today, today we could debate it, whether it's mobility or air quality, or greeting, or it's all connected. Actually, it's all tied up. You've mentioned some mobility data, you've also mentioned some public safety data. With everything that affects us here, because we are talking about that people, not only from the metropolitan area of Tarragona, but also from any metropolitan area of Catalonia, but also from other places, as can also be Osona, or any other place, or also, you know, the Eastern Valley, with all the contamination that it causes from the metropolitan area and that for the Congost up to Osona, causes a lot of people, therefore, to have problems of salvation, and that this makes all the papers we have to ask for. This means all the administrations, because we are talking, the administrations, like this, which is the object of the motion of the Generality, but also the assemblies. It must be borne in mind that, for example, the city where we are now has not done many of the things that we should have done, the municipality in question or the metropolitan area in question, because in London, for many years now, we have a toll for access; we have cities like Copenhagen, which are bringing vehicles from the centre in favour of the bicycle; we also have cities here, like Madrid, which has done Central Madrid, which is very interesting and which I think we should also start here to look at how we are doing. Because the issue of contamination, the issue of air quality was mainly linked to the issue of mobility. It must be borne in mind that the vast majority of people who go to Barcelona or leave Barcelona, if possible, would not take the vehicle, and, if they do, it is because they are obliged to do so. A servant of yours from Francolí, 150, 130 kilometers from here, but also with a train from a hundred and fifty years ago; so it's as if you don't have it, because, for the frequencies there are, it doesn't serve me for anything to come to Parliament, and a lot of people to work or study. Therefore, we need to modify this. At URV, for example, 10% of students going to university have to drop out precisely because of mobility problems, because times don't go well and cause them to drop out of studies. And, if I may, now, on a personal level, I am enjoying an Erasmus 155, I am lucky to be able to visit very often Switzerland, and even more so Belgium, and I am pleased to be able to compare mobility and also the democratic and judicial system there, which logically you can imagine is very different. All the way through the bike lanes, with a very punctual, very efficient train system. Even in Antwerp, if they go to the central station of Antwerp, they will find three levels of railway. So, the excuse is not the ability, no, it's that it's very narrow... so listen to me, they dug up three railroad levels. And of course, with all this we have to ask ourselves: the assemblies, the Generality, which is the object of this young man, and, indeed, one of the issues that has not been accepted in this case is the great debtor of all fold, which in this case we are talking about the Spanish State. It must be borne in mind that 80_% of the rail investment in the Spanish State is going at high speed, while 20_% is going at rollers, which is the bulk of the people who make it work. But, more than that, of course, that's what he said – he didn't say it as a server – but that was said by the Gremi de Contractistes de Catalunya, which only bid a quarter of the works, and of these only 75_% is executed. Or, one of every three euros is only executed. And of course, before that, when it comes to the park and laugh, it's not like there's a park if there's no laugh. People won't leave the car if they can't take a train with guarantees. And of course, it won't improve the quality of the air and it won't improve the efficiency if it doesn't, and if logically the State doesn't do the dues. And that's why I'm taking advantage of it, since the billboard season's been inaugurated. [[the orator shows an image to the camera]] So, I take advantage of this great historical cover, where they say we're going to have a great festival of millions. But clearly, here, in the rain place of millions we have had a rain of arrests, and more, incidentally, I don't know if they look at it, here the three coasts come from three well-known Catalan municipalities, which is said by More d'Enric, Lledoners and Puig de les Basses, and, logically, what we need here is more mobility, more freedom, and all folds we will do, not pateixin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.251.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Narcis Clara.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.252.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, members of the Government and Parliament, guests. The human activity developed since the industrial revolution has caused the quality of the area to deteriorate. The most known consequence of this is global warming as gas concentrations increase with winter effects. Now, many other products, such as nitrogen oxides or solid particles, are involved in the deterioration of air quality, to cite two examples that affect us in particular. The direct relationship between contamination, air quality and public health is obvious. The European Environment Agency, which is the independent agency of the European Union, states that increases in concentrations of certain contaminants in the air are the cause of enormous problems in the fields of health and the environment. According to the European Commission, every year more than 400,000 people die from these causes. This problem of public health implies that economic activity and public finances also grow. Millions of hours of work are lost and health and pharmaceutical costs are rising. As Councillor Rull said in Parliament, structural changes in transport and industrial policy have to be implemented. I take advantage of the adversity to greet him friendlyly, as well as other Catalan policies that cannot accompany us for unjust reasons known to us. I believe that citizenship expects us, its representatives, not only to implement measures to improve the quality of the air, but also to make available the information available with transparency, clarity and simplicity. With this later end is defined the index of the quality of the area, with a_only numerical value in the range of -100 to 100 can be known which is the quality of the area that is breathed. Only that one of the concentrations considered to exceed the pre-established threshold, has as a consequence that the quality index is denied. Why do I explain this to them? Well, all the average annual values evaluated in Catalonia are over 50. This is because there are times when the pre-established shields for the European Union are over, as is the case for many Western European cities. These contamination episodes are certainly very worrying and we need to work to minimize them. With respect to the sentiment of our vote, the progress we will be voting against points 4, 9, 14, 15 and 16 and in favour of the remainder. Therefore, we will vote in favour of almost three quarters of the proposed points. As a result, I thank the Member of Parliament Terrades for the good climate created in the assessment of the different proposals. What discrepancies have emerged, most of which are due to external conditioning? First, I think that questioning the methodology used for data processing, which has been endorsed by European Union technicians, is not the path. Let the experts do their job. With regard to the convenience of automating all data, there are two reasons not to do so. For one band, the European Commission asks that some of the contaminants be manually measured, such as particles with a diameter of less than 10 micrometres. For another band, it would be a waste of resources to automate all 122 stations. I just need to do it in hard-working expert stations, that's to say, in those points where the evolution of contamination can be more problematic. Secondly, we are in agreement with the proposal on the deployment of the low-emission zone in the Barcelona round and the rest of the municipalities with more than 50,000 inhabitants. It has to be borne in mind, though, that some of the competitions are municipal. Also, the main disagreement point is in the creation of an economic support line. I will not be in the fiscal deficit that Catalonia is suffering, as it has already been brilliantly analysed in this ple, but I would like to recall the 25_millions that Councillor Calvet named that he had to bring to the State for the Best of Public Transport in 2018 and that they have not been paid. Trust is a quality that cannot be measured with an instrument, with a sensor, is an intangible; but some of the variables that affect it are measurable; in this case, the 25_millions. Under these conditions, what trust is generated? More than the body that would have to apply to the AMB has not done so. Thirdly, we share the view that it would be useful to regulate the restriction of circulation by declared environmental events in the lives they correspond to, but first of all to have the power to sanction the offences after developing the previously cited regulation; it is a point of order. And finally, we would also agree to establish which infrastructures will be implemented in the Barcelona area for the first five years, but always in the ATM framework. You don't have to create another planning tool. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.253.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Some applause.]] Next, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the honourable Member Marina Bravo has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.254.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillors. Well, how many motions do we already have on air quality? I am sure you have heard me, all of you, speaking here, in this..., here, in the Chamber, on this subject, about the serious problem that we already have today in our cities, in Barcelona, in Sabadell. We have talked about the problem of nitrogen oxides, PM10 and other particles that come into our air and that make life very difficult for allergic people, people with respiratory problems, and that it is even estimated that they cause more than three thousand premature deaths a year. Several motions on air quality have been adopted, and this, in principle, should be something to be satisfied with. It is positive, yes, because it reflects the concern of various parliamentary groups about a problem that is on the street, and that in fact it is a growing concern in the citizenry. It is therefore positive because a real problem, which is on the street, has fallen within the political agenda, and it shows that it is the various motions that have been adopted. Many motions have been approved, I say, but what about government actions, or results, or progress? For in many, in most questions, answers are very quickly: none. In fact, there is nothing more to see than the proposals put forward today, such as the one on dissuasive parking, which was approved three years ago and not only has to be re-examined today, but it is at exactly the same point as it was at the time. We want more air quality motions, many more, but we do not want them to have to be the same as in previous years because nothing has progressed, and I am not saying so. We can read some points: "To adapt the protocols of action in case of preventive warning or episode of pollution, is in the motion this year and is in a motion of the last legislature, and not of the end, precisely. Introduce a strategy to reduce tropospheric ozone in the region of Osona, exactly the same. I was already on a motion from the last legislature. Or we even have a very funny one: this year we have the law on the financing of public transport, and we have a point in this year's motion that says: "adopt, before the end of 2019, the regulation of this law. Well, in 2017 we had: "to approve, before the end of 2017, the regulation of that law, and so we are. Really, in these two, three years have they not had time to draft these rules, for any of the other issues? Or have they had other priorities? Because I think it's gonna be that. Because, look, they have time to go to Waterloo. Well, this one I think is from Berlin, this one in particular, but to go to Waterloo they also have time. Or they have time, then, to go to..., to set up acts and chiringuitos like the Consell per a la República. That's where we have our environmental advisor in the front row, because I'm sure there's a lot of talk about air quality, it's very important that he's there. And yet when they have to appear before the Committee on the Environment, as was the case last Wednesday, you know what happened in this Parliament last Wednesday, because they are not..., they are not..., they are not ashamed not to come and, instead, send us a little letter where they tell us: « Let us tell you that it is not possible to watch us. They're not allowed to attend. You will already tell me what more important thing you had to do last Wednesday at three o'clock in the afternoon than come to attend a committee you were committed to. "I ask you to postpone the information sessions. Last Wednesday. Until next Wednesday, which, by the way, the Territorial Commission will run out of motions to be seen last week and will be delayed for at least one month. And, in addition, "let us ask you to postpone. Shall we ask you? No, look, talk to the property. We ask you, no: we impose you postpone, we impose you, they impose us... [[applause]] the closure of the committee of six committees throughout the day. They blocked us, prevented us from fulfilling our obligations. You only go to the forums of the process, and Catalonia has many complex problems: ATLL, the subway, has a huge debt, has a lot of bills outstanding, we have, as we speak, air pollution, and we need a government to worry about and deal with 100_% of these problems, but we don't have it. The Government of Torra neither wants nor can govern Catalonia, nor can nor wants to solve the problems of Catalans. We will support this motion, yes, but we need a change of stage in Catalonia so that within three years we will not be approving the same motion again because nothing has been done. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.255.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next and to fix his position has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can, in the first place, the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.256.0	Thank you very much, President. Members and Members, we will give support to the motion, as it could not be in any other way, but we believe that there is a paradox in the policies that they have to deal with the fight against climate change, with contamination and with public salvation. Today, 15 or 20 years ago, it seems to me that there is a consensus on the great reptes of the country that we have before us. No one is ever going to this Faristol to deny that contamination does not affect public salvation or to deny that it is necessary to rethink long-distance mobility, or to deny that it is necessary to lead a public strategy that provides solutions. No longer has there been any denial; now the government has taken on what is evidence for the city council, but they are unable to believe their own words and above all they are unable to lead a public agenda at the height of the great reptiles of the country. You have no longer denied it; now what we have is a grey government that neither believes what is said nor is it able to lead a new proposal for welfare. Leading a welfare proposal today is included in the necessary recovery of rights and public services a bet to transform our societies. We can lead a new bet to make societies more sustainable, fairer and fighting against the masculinist chess. And the Generalitat does not lead any proposed in these three great axes. While the cities of change are leading a new agenda for the future alone, the Government is unable to lead a political bet, when it is not dedicated to putting the wheels on institutions that do try to push them forward. In terms of sustainability, we have two great challenges: energy transition and fighting emissions and contamination. In terms of energy transition, we see that while Barcelona has led the bet for a renewable energy public operator to ensure a just and sustainable energy transition, here we have hoped that a commission will be created to jointly build an energy transition plan for Catalonia; it is hard to do so if we take into account that the Climate Change Law fixes the shutdown of nuclear power plants in Catalonia in less than two years. When will we talk and plan in this Parliament the need to guarantee jobs, the future production of Catalonia and the need to lead an energetic transition? Where is the leadership of the Generality in energy transition proposals? Where is the government's leadership in renewable energies? While the gatherings lead, with very limited skills, a new bet to transform cities, to reduce contamination, to rebuild a welfare agenda, the Generality is unable to lead any proposal. We have seen in Madrid the debate about Madrid Central. We have seen in Barcelona the debate on the energy operator, on the superillas, on the connection of the tram. And where are the debates leading the Government of Catalonia? No debate; no housing, no mobility, no transport, no energy; no debate ambitions, no proposal that marks the public agenda of debate and that gives us a line of work for the future that has been led by the Generalitat de Catalunya. And this is especially evident when we talk about the second step we have in sustainability, which is the quality of the area. The problem of air quality is not only an ecological repte, it is also a repte of public salvation. Every year, in Catalonia, more than 3,500 people die prematurely due to health problems associated with air quality; 3_percent of GDP is health expenditure associated with diseases caused by problems of air contamination. And before a problem of first-class public salvation, the Generalitat is unable to lead an ambitious proposal. This young man is not new. And it's not new, not because the socialist deputy didn't do his job, it's not new because 2014 we discussed a motion that included most of the points that we are still claiming in this Parliament. But that's what went on in 2014. And 2015 and 2016 and 2017 we continue to present and demand to the Generalitat that you do not act deaf and that you lead a own proposal in the matter of air quality. I don't think he's putting the batteries down. I need a quality law project from the valiant and ambitious area. It is necessary to regulate the financing of public transport to Catalonia in order to promote a new model of mobility. We need to plan and innovate in the country's mobility. In short, so that the measures adopted by this Parliament do not lock them in a covetous manner and are used to lead ambitious proposals. Gentlemen of the Government, govern and build a public agenda at the height of the country's great reptes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.257.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.258.0	I'm done with this, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.259.0	...time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.260.0	Leading a bet for welfare, equality and sustainability that allows us to build a new future for Catalonia, leader-ho, because it's been years since Ishi is complaining. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.261.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the now return of Mrs. Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.262.0	Thank you. Hello again. Well, it has been said, various Members have said this; we have talked about the quality of the area on many occasions in this House. He appreciates that he's loose betraying, but sometimes, doesn't he? If you repeat that, you can be so superfluous that you're going through this, right? That we repeat debates, we commit ourselves very much, but in the end and in the end there is no realist action, because we do not take it seriously. Product of dependence on oil consumption – not the new ones – the quality of the area has continued to deteriorate, especially in the metropolitan areas of Barcelona and Tarragona. You know that. In this sense, this deterioration is linked to the emissions of road transport, industrial activity and maritime transport, which amplifies with the ineffectiveness of the measures proposed for the Generality, especially, and for the municipalities, in conjunction with the automotive, industrial and tourist sectors. And here's one of the clear questions. Because if we approve of many points in which we make many declarations of good intentions, but, for example, from the Government of the Generality we are not able to look at the face, for example, the industrial sector, the cement sector, which we know perfectly well what its weight is, importantly, in the quality of the area, is to serve as a means for us to print papers, to approve motions. On some of the questions, too, the motion is also a little bit of a tailor of all things: mobility, T-mobility... Well, there are things that we will vote for, things that we don't. Which yes... we would like to be able to plant a horizon in which we really imagine... not just looking to the face of the cement sector, for example, but just imagining a public transport free of quality and accessible to everyone, not just to the metropolitan area. And, uh, about all these questions, so is the law. We don't see it as a priority. There are already many regulations that would need to be renewed – in this sense, the Law on the Quality of the Air – and basically it would be useful to make them complete, because it is not that we do not have, we do not have regulations and regulations on the issue. And to end on this question, so as not to widen me further, no? As long as we don't look at this issue and we're making green rubber policies that simply whiten what's basically going on on this planet, while there are announcements of the hand of Ecoembes and other industries that get rich with the logo of ecology, but of ecologists have nothing to do with it, in what they say « your excuses are ending with our planet, we say that your capitalism, your politics of friends, your neoliberal politics, is really choking life. And never better said when we talk about air quality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.263.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.264.0	Thank you, President. To position ourselves globally in favor of this motion we will introduce some morning and some differentiated vote in some aspects in which we disagree. Air contamination, air quality is a problem we know, but it's also a recurring issue. It has already been said that periodically, therefore, we have proposals for resolutions and we have motions and questions that refer to these questions; plans..., periodically plans are drawn up, results are not just desired, plans appear to us, etc., are not achieved, are they not? But this is an issue that obviously doesn't have a single solution but that has multiple solutions, many and small solutions; it doesn't have a single origin either but it has multiple origins. But we are of the criteria that we cannot demand from the individual if as administration we do not do dues and do not preach by example, right? And in this sense I share some of the words that have been said in the sense that they certainly have not been done, they have not put themselves from the Administration all the tools and all the necessary elements as to then be able to go demanding. We would not be in favour of a new law but would be in favour of completing the plans we propose, which I believe is more simple. We will support all those proposed actions and actions of the Administration that are at the heart of this motion, but we will abstain in two points and vote against another. We will abstain from that point which refers to the Public Transport Finance Act Regulation, because we are very afraid – and more so from the Socialist Group – that it certainly has an interest in an increase in taxation; we will not put ourselves in favour. And then we'll also abstain from that point that makes reference to the bus-way, right? I'm sorry, huh? , but coming from the PSC makes us a certain panic reminding us of the last bus-VAO lane that was set in march, that of the C-55, that trigagar did not know how many years to run after a cost of much more than 80_million euros, right? And, therefore, man, this... But this is not the discrepancy; the discrepancy is this desire to avoid the increase of the ability to travel around Barcelona. And finally we'll vote against that when the questioner or what he's going to say is: we haven't been able to try to remediate the contamination of the air...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.265.0	Mr. Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.266.0	...and the quality of the area in public space, let's go do an analysis of which is the quality of the area inside the buildings. I'm dispensing, there are sectoral regulations...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.267.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.268.0	...to respect; therefore, at this point, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.269.0	To pronounce on the papers, Mr Jordi Terrades has a turn now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.270.0	We did not accept the Ciutadans message because I have already told the honourable Member, Marina Bravo, that we believe that this is an issue that needs to be resolved in the T-Mobility debate and how we organize the priests, the headlines, etc. And, ladies and gentlemen of the government, we believe that we must move from speeches to commitments. And the considerations that we have not accepted are those that were to concrete commitments. What commitments? Presupposed and basically government leadership commitments. You are not trying to escape from this debate every time it comes out: you do not want to complete the Public Transport Finance Act; you do not want to take on the responsibilities that surround you as the government of Catalonia as well as those of the regulation of the lives that are your competence. And we believe that this is a negligent action of the Government, according to two reasons: to have, you have skills in some of the lives that enter the capital of Catalonia, in Barcelona..., that there is a good predisposition of the Government of Spain to speak with you to solve this issue; because the papers that were to be sent to the General Directorate of Traffic you have lost them by some means and have not sent them. And, Mr. Civit, on the subject of infrastructure, this debate that in this House some Members of you have not spoken. You came here and explained the half of this debate that we held our group and the two groups that support the Government, which was that we said "we agree to ask the Government of Spain to fulfil its commitments, and add" as it begins to set the assumptions of 2019. And, to you, like the presuppositions of 2019 make them panic about it, so you go here and give us the speech that you gave us. Listen to me, take responsibility, move from speeches to commitments.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.271.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. We're going to vote on the motion. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez; separate votes?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.272.0	Yes; points 5 and 12, which could be voted together, for our part, and point 15, separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.273.0	All right. Mr. Civit... [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.274.0	We'd ask for a separate vote from point 4...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.275.0	Mrs. Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.276.0	...don't... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.277.0	They don't play between you and the microphones, because, if not, they don't... Anyone asking for the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.278.0	Jo. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.279.0	Yeah? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Caula, speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.280.0	We would ask him to vote separately from points 4, 9, 14, 15 and 16, which we could vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.281.0	All right. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Sánchez? [[Rialles.]] Mr. Civit, why... ask me the word or not, Mr. Civit? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.282.0	It was to be asked in this case for allusions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.283.0	Let's do one thing, ask for separate votes, and then I'll give you the word. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Sànchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.284.0	Well, with no intention of widening the ple..., if we can vote them all one by one it'll be for us simpler, if it doesn't make them king.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.285.0	All right. Therefore, we will vote separately on all points of the motion. Mr. Civit, yes. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.286.0	Thank you, President. In this case, Mr. Terrades, this topic was not only about the assumptions of encany, but about all the assumptions, of everyone who has passed through Madrid, which have always been incomplicating repeatedly..., the presuppositional incompliments, and this includes the incompliment of the additional provisions of the State, which was only completed once and then did not become more complicating. And that means from the recovery of democracy until now. At least we have a feeling, because it was something else during the franchise. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.287.0	All right. [[Jordi Terrades and Santacreu ask to speak.]] Mr. Terrades, I understand that by allusions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.288.0	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.289.0	Thirty seconds, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.290.0	As in this plenary, there was talk of compliments, presuppositional executions, etc., I also did the exercise of looking at what had happened in the past eight years in the presuppositional execution of those infrastructures that are the responsibility of the Government of the Generality. And, listen, if they look at it, they'll see that it's not to throw at it either; more or less in the line of the Government of Spain. [[You're saying, "Very good! The applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.291.0	Let's move on, now, then, to the vote on the motion, point by point. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1 was adopted by 121 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. This was approved by 122 votes to three. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. This point was approved unanimously: 125 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number four. The vote begins. This point was approved by 62 votes to 59, with 3 abstentions and one Member who did not vote. Let's now vote point number five. The vote begins. Point 5 was adopted by 119 votes to 6, with 6 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number six. The vote begins. This was approved by 122 votes to three. Let's now vote point number seven. The vote begins. This was approved by 122 votes to three. And now we're going to vote on the 8th. The vote begins. The eighth point was approved unanimously, i.e. 125 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're going to vote point 9. The vote begins. This point was approved by 65 votes to 60, with no abstentions. Let's just move on to vote point number 10. The vote begins. This point was approved by 122 votes to three, with no abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the one-off. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] Onze – onze. Eleven. This point was approved unanimously: 125 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote on the dot. The vote begins. This was approved by 119 votes in favour, against and six abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the tretze point. The vote begins. The vote was approved by 122 votes to three, with no abstentions. And now we're voting fourteen. The vote begins. The 14th was rejected by 28 votes in favour, 60 against and 37 abstentions. Let's move on to the 15th. The vote begins. The fifteen-point was rejected by 62 votes in favour, 63 against and no abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the seven-point. The vote begins. This was approved by 62 votes to 60, with 3 abstentions. And now we're going to vote for the dissé. The vote begins. The dissenting point was approved by 122 votes in favour, against and three abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the split point. The vote begins. The split point is approved unanimously, which means 125 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're going to vote for the new point and get past this young man. The vote begins. This point was approved by 122 votes in favour, against and three abstentions. [[Some applause.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the promotion of the rural world and the high mountains]] [[302-00052/12]] Once voted on this motion, let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the promotion of the rural world and the high mountain, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word of Congressman Javier Rivas. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.292.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. They say that one morning, Churchill, Winston Churchill, was asked if he could give a lecture and he asked: "How long? They said to him: « – Two hours. - Okay. Yeah, let's go, right now. And as he put on the gaban and lit the cigar, he was already heading to the conference, right? They stopped him at the door and said to him, "No, wait, we were wrong. It's 15 minutes. Then he said, "No, I take off my jacket. I, a 15-minute conference, need an entire day to prepare the. What do I mean by that? That the capacity for synthesis is perhaps the most complicated, the most difficult and the most meritorious. But in this motion, which is of a rural world, of a whole world – because there are many worlds, although everyone is in this world – they will really exempt me from explaining the points one by one of what we have done, because it is really a very large motion, that everyone has it in writing and that each one will have already read and will have his own judgment, right? The will of this motion is nothing other than to focus on a problem that we have with the vertebration of the territory, with a society that we have to vertebrate under a concept of citizenship on equal possibilities, opportunities, rights and obligations. I am aware that I am not discovering garlic soups, that this problem is on the table, that the Administration is aware of it, right? , which is not new, but it is new that it is in an incremental, high-risk trend that is accelerating. In fact, for years the Administration – and I have to admit it – has been working on these issues, through laws, decrees, secretariats, general directorates, observatories, institutes, undersecretaries, commissions and a longetcetera, right? ; but the reality is testy, and the truth is that the data is desolating: what they are telling us is that the problem is not being corrected, but is increasing. That is why this motion, which is why we want to focus on, we want to put this problem on the table, because we need the government to intervene; that I acknowledge and repeat that we know that it already does, but we want to add not a variable, but a constant in this equation, and it is that of the effectiveness of the government, the government has to be much more effective. It's not about setting up institutions. To govern is not to make a decree and to record what is budgeted and that's it. To govern is to make an analysis, to equip the media, to follow, to mark a course, to correct the defects that are being seen on the march; it is even, I would say, to tie oneself to the rudder and to reach port, right? It's a port I think we're all interested in as a society, isn't it? , because we are a whole, I said, that although we are different worlds, we are all under the same world. I think it's a society that the administration has to make fairer, right? , be more egalitarian, that doesn't depend so much on where you were born or where you live. They will tell me that many of these things, those who have read the motion, actually, already exist, are already being done, right? But what we ask of you is that they work, not that they are there in a drawer or in a shelf or that they are in a press headline, but that they are a reality, that they are a useful tool for a territory that has a millennial viability to keep it and that it can further incorporate itself into a knowledge economy of the twenty-first century. For my work, like most colleagues, we talk a lot with a lot of people; I'm a person I like more to hear than to talk, right? , and this motion has proved very easy for me to do, because in the end I am nothing but a mere amanuense of the voices, of the petitions of all my land. I spoke at the beginning of this motion of synthesis, and allow me an anecdote which I believe sums up the purpose of this motion; it is a livestock anecdote, but I believe it is extrapolable to any other sector, right? One day I was at a gathering of farmers who were dealing with the problem of the reintroduction of the bear and the management that has taken place, which is leading them into many problems, especially with a bear called Goiat, isn't it? I didn't know anyone there, I only had one friend, one I knew, Ramon, who was in the corner of the dark angle. There was one who had the word and was very angry, the man; he said: "No, it is that what we have to do is to be paid six thousand euros for every lamb that kills our bear, and so you will see how the Administration puts on the batteries, and this problem would be over, right? My friend Ramon, who is a silent type, like a deep river, drew much attention to me, because he took the word and stood like a basilisco; he said: "You are not a farmer, asking these things. I'm a cattleman and I want to remain a cattleman. I don't want to be a subsidiary, I don't want to live with alms or compensation. I want to live off my work at the cattle farm. That's kind of what people ask for. That is what this motion is about, the limitations of the rural world and the dignity of the people of the rural world. And, for that order, tell them that they can always count on Citizens. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.293.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, to defend the papers presented has the word, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.294.0	Thank you, Vice President. Councillor, members of the Government who accompany us, to defend the position of the Socialist Group and Units to advance to the last motion of this plenary, but no less important, on the rural world and the policies of montanya. We will begin with the end that I intended to say to my intervention, and it is that we have called for the previous parliamentary term – and we have already made a debate on rural development – that the Government assumes the challenge of depopulation; that the Government of the Government of Catalonia must assume the challenge of rural development, and that it must do so from an integral perspective, from a perspective of leadership of all public administrations that have a direct influence on rural development, from Europe, which is very important, from Madrid, which certainly competitions, from Catalonia, which we also have in others. But also giving footsteps to a country project, a territorial project, that we remember that affects rural development policies, 75_percent of the territory of Catalonia, must also lead before the regional councils, before the capitals of the main regions of the rural world; without their help, obviously, it will be impossible. As we also call for more pressure from the Government of the Generality, but it was not all, obviously, with more money, but, above all, to lead a comprehensive project of rural development, of mountain policies, as they touch, because we have long felt that the Law of Aran and its finance are about to come and come; we have long felt that the Law of Mountain is working and not up, and we have long felt that there has been a breakdown in careers that will come and go and that will not come, long ago we feel that there will be better mobile phone coverage or optical fiber and not up. And, therefore, he says: "A long, etcetera of promises, a wide, etcetera of retailing in investments, of refocusing certain public services, which brings a certain disappointment and, obviously, accelerates these territorial inequalities, this necessary territorial cohesion. Where are we? So, man, we've got a situation of impoverishment, aging and unpopulated since the onset of the crisis, also for the retailing, which has also accelerated it. The increase in territorial inequalities, added to the public assumption of disinversion, obviously added to the Pyrenees, to the areas of montanya, with objective adversities which, moreover, still accentuate these difficulties. This added to the great saturation, as we have now mentioned, of the great capitals, the lack of resources to the great capitals, and, therefore, with this displacement of the population and of economic activity to large metropolitan areas, is aggravating also the management of our country, and also an excessively centralist and metropolitan view when it is managed of the territory. It is necessary to make a good management of the territory and to ask more and to put more the magnifying glass from the territory in which they want to make the proposals. And what can we do? We have made proposals, but I would not like to go into the detail of all the proposals that we have made, because we have already had the burden of repeating them again and again, because I am grateful to the Agricultural Councillor too, as I was also pleased, in her day, to the Serret Councillor, who has always been so important... we wanted the rural development policy of the Presidency to be led. And it is also true that from Agriculture there has been interest, since there are skills in rural development, in leading this project, this visit, this inter-departmental commission that we are now recovering – surely, we will approve it –, which was already coming from the previous legislature about our parliamentary group, and, therefore, what we want is for someone to assume, for someone who is a leader, who is a reflection person, who is responsible for all the agents involved, both public and private, to pull the rural trades forward, the enterprises, the infrastructures needed, the connection with the rest of the border territories with France, with Andorra, with Aragó, with the Valencian Community. The borders are administrative, but many times they can help economic and social dynamism. Therefore, a country project, in favour of the inter-departmental commission, and we are grateful that a small part of the proposals that we have presented and, obviously, the inter-departmental commission has been accepted; to decentralise the public services of the Generality; the socio-economic observer, who we believe should work; a better number of natural parks; a better management of wildlife and problems; a specific industrial plan of the rural world, which we have asked many times; more resources for the mountain hospital; more and better communications coming and better public transport, are essential elements that fix the population in the territory, gathered to the conclusions of the Rural Foundation; more support for rural people living with disabilities. Problems in the city take a different dimension, many times, to the rural world. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] We do not agree with the point of abandoned cults and we do not agree with the centralization of central services, because we would have written it differently. Anyway, agrair...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.295.0	You're out of here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.296.0	... Mr. Javier Rivas, for having put this subject under discussion, and, obviously, for the rest also of the companies, of the deputies, who bore this responsibility, for the items that we have been talking about and that we have granted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.297.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Then, for the Republican Parliamentary Group, the French deputy Viaplana has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.298.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, allow me to make a statement. This motion affects nine departments of the Generality. There are points that, for them alone, there is so much to say that they would donate to make one of them alone. Therefore, it is very difficult, not to say impossible, that, in five minutes, we can politically argue the positions of each point. To my mind, you have been more opportune to present a more concrete motion and to be able to address each issue more deeply, and so to be able to define well the appropriate solutions; we need solutions, because I agree that the issues that are being addressed to the motion have to be addressed, but in this way it may not be the most appropriate form. However, I would like to thank him, Mr Rivas, for his willingness to agree, and we welcome the fact that he has accepted that there is no need to create more organs or waste more public resources, when we already have creations, as is the case with the Interdepartmental Committee on Rural Development, which precisely serves to promote all those policies that are lacking in a cross-cutting vision. And from here on out, I want to keep a record and a special acknowledgment to the Constellera Serret to make it possible. I will focus, however, on the points on which we do not agree. Point 2 calls for a gradual deconcentration of the central services of the different departments, with the will that the different councils put their branches of the country. In our view, what must be prioritized is the efficiency of the Administration and not as long as its locations are located. What we consider to be phonental, and so we proposed in the debate, is that it is continuous and culminating in the vegatory deployment, in which this government has been compromised, since it is phonenal that each territory, with its specificities, has its own representative, knowledgeable of the difficulties and problems of the same territory. But, of course, surely, his group and ours are different from each other. In point 5, he asked that a mobility plan be drawn up for rural areas. However, in the regional studies carried out by the Directorate-General for Transport and Mobility with the regional councils and municipalities, account is already taken of the specific needs of rural environment mobility and concrete subsidies to be granted by the Territorial Department to the regional councils for the empowerment of transport services. For this reason, we do not consider it necessary to draw up a specific mobility plan for rural areas, as proposed to the House. In paragraph 8a, which affects the control of the price chain, we shall abstain, since the Department of Agriculture is already pushing all possible measures and tools to strengthen the viability of farms and transparency in the value chain. So, it can't affect the prices, but measures are being implemented, like the Preus Observer, where agents have the obligation to send-there data linked with information about the prices, with the objective of being able to publish it, while promoting the creation of economic circumscriptions in the different sectors that I consider it to be. In paragraph 8.b, we cannot support it either, since the regulations for the execution of the concentrations already exist, are in force and in use. The problem of concentrations is presumptive for the drafting of projects and the execution, after, of the same concentration, facts that are not related to the regulation. For what it does at point 8.d respects to encourage reforestation, it does not seem very consistent, in our opinion, when we are talking about the Law of Agrarian Spas, with the recovery of the abandoned farms to facilitate its conreu. Nor is it with the need for food production that we need to improve the degree of food sovereignty. That is to say, we do not find it logical to encourage reforestation when what we are trying to do is to avoid losing agricultural land alone in the current increase in the forest area that we have in our country. At the eighth point, we will abstain, since the Department of Agriculture, currently, calls for aid from the 2014-2020 PDR, to support the extensive mountain range and the improvement of pastures. At the same time, the Strategic Plan of the extensive mountain range is beginning to work, to see what measures must be taken to ensure the continuity of this sector, under difficult conditions of production, and also the measures to be taken to minimise and compensate for the damage caused by the interaction with wildlife, whether protected or kinegetic. According to you, with the branch concentrations that you are currently doing to prevent attacks on bones, you can no longer consider extensive branching and, in this, disagree, since the concentrations are a practice that is already, many years ago, being realized and not for that reason ceases to be extensive branching, since during the day the beast grazes freely and does not in intensive way. At points 9.c and 9.d we cannot support them either, since, for one thing, since the adoption of the Catalonia cluster programme, the year 2014, all clusters have both catalá. Also, this does not exclude that the cluster methodology can be used to work in a narrower or more local environment. And, for what it does to the tax rate, it should be remembered that taxes are state-wide and that, therefore, the Generality does not have much regulatory capacity. On the other hand, we believe that it is more effective to make spending policies, whether with aid or subsidies, than not touching tickets, as management costs increase and it is not so fiscally controllable. Finally, I cannot close my intervention without telling you that you knew me especially hard when you, in your inquiry, needed IDAPA. Mr. Rivas, there's not much we've been fighting for many years because High Pirinius and Aran are recognizable as territories, because I firmly believe that we are, because we have common problems and an environment that holds us together, and IDAPA was the first instrument we had to connect and vertebrate this territory. We can argue that there is room to improve or that there are aspects that can be modified, but criticizing the very existence of the institute I find a lack of respect for the same territory and for which, for a long time, different parties and from outside the parties have worked and worked for the recognition of the High Pyrenees. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.299.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the Member of Parliament Anna Geli has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.300.0	Ben; good afternoon, counselors; good afternoon, deputies, deputies. We'd find ourselves on the side of this motion, but it's not clear to you that it's contained as much as it's shaped. A motion of eleven points and months of twenty-ones that involve the ship's departments. This remains impossible to apprehend in a single theme, in an important mon as eth rural and eth dera mountain. Lords of Ciutadans demand for causes, and beres oes are their counters. For example, in the first place – this said eth mem companh – they ask to decentralize departments of th Govèrn, in the first place they did not have a single reference to IDAPA, that I was a department that eth Govèrn in territories; an organization that they would like to eliminate, as far as I was a host of initiatives such as Taula de Camins deth Naut Pireneu and Aran. And to say, decentralizing will was Administration, as soon as it decentralizes, will suppress it. In duesau..., duesau contradiction: to make an effort to encourage it was to rebuild it for one side, and for one aut to recover it so that abandoned it would facilitate it eth cultiu; a point that has already been studied and reflected in the Law of Agrarian Spaces. So you don't want to persuade them again. In third place, ask eth unfolding this wide band and is mobile yarns of later generation. And we congratulate you. I congratulate you for coming to our country. It was important to turn Catalonia into a digital republic. They are the proofs of this, but they know as well as we do that cohesion eth territóri, is seen and was also Administration. It is worse that we know that without a car we will be able to move, and when today, we are driving for the national 230, which is the most dangerous roads in his résumé and the Spanish State. This is why, from Junts to Catalonia, we set up a transport platform for travellers from Catalonia 2020, which already includes measures of empowerment and improvement of the public transport in rural areas, concrete on the one hand is county councils and on the other hand Conselh Generau. For that reason, do they want opposition or constructive or destructive? So if it was your opposition and constructive, you don't want to go back to what you already have; in any case, we improve and redefine what we already have. On one other side, in today's motion, we find two points that are being addressed to the government. Mr Rivas, you who have gone to Madrid, demand that Mr Sánchez articulate, for example, a specific mechanism for my rural community in Pla statau de vieenda, and that you reverse this increase which is destined for 2010: 100 million euras and not 50 million euras. So together for Catalonia, you paid for it all. And that's why we're looking for mechanisms that articulated the coexistence between it was extensive ramaderie and it was wildlife, programs that already love each other and that based on eth madeish postulated Union of Pagesi. And what is he conceiving? In the daytime, we wouldn't introduce you as long as he did, so we had to live together, would we? Ladies and gentlemen, guard, programs with eth of rural development, eth Strategic Pla this extensive mountain range, eth POCTEFA, er Alberapastur, eth Cooperem Odisseu, es grps d'action loau e initiativas ruraus, do not dream that you are said to encourage shepherding, otherwise that prebott, for example, university stays in all is rural municipalities of this mountain. An example that has force a prop of yours, in Vielha, eth Center of Research of Nauta Mountainha. From here, we don't recognize specialists in all of this because so much now prevention and now detection of lauegi. And that is why I am deth National Pact for this energy transition, which encapsulates it by here, we are asking for it, escort, the action says to Mr Rivera, that I am in Madrid, that « presse en aguest case to Mr Sánchez before it was a challenge to the Tribunau Constitution why tanh the emissions of CO2. And then it's over, prepausen tanben divulgation bells deth my rural. Months, by hotel, there have already been strong bells, among you is that difon Món Rural. That's not the same consistency and that they want to bar TV3 for one side and at ath madeish time they want to media campaigns before they even resonate. Therefore, delay that does not follow so that then follow was politics of th my rural deth are partners in Andalucia, that I basically eth foment deth mon dera tauromaquia. With it I gave air at the beginning: ask for strong causes, in the beret of your age contradict themselves, and, therefore, I would have them and ask them, if the squares, which remain coherent, gentlemen and gentlemen of Ciutadans. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.301.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is now the turn of the Member of Parliament, Mrs Yolanda López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.302.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillors... Although much of the points of this motion are already covered in other laws and regulations, and others that are not, but we consider it important, therefore, to strengthen them, so we will vote, except for some point, in favour of it. We find it interesting and desirable that the specific programmes for development and economic diversification in rural areas include the European Union's Leader approach to financing rural development initiatives. Since social dynamism is essential for us, the planning initiative is given to the local communities of each rural territory so that, organized into local action groups, they develop and implement development strategies for the territories and propose solutions to the common problems that affect them..., that is, that they bet on local governance. And as we believe in local governance and social dynamism, we also believe that it is essential for the creation of the Commissioner of the Cross-Rural Environment to have social platforms or foundations, so it seems contradictory to us that Mr Rivas did not want to accept our amendment so that these groups can be part of... On the other hand, we consider it essential that measures be put in place to bring transport, telehealth and the Internet closer to rural areas, in order to curb rural depopulation and enable rural people to exercise the same rights as the rest. Although these measures are insufficient if our goal is to go beyond curbing depopulation and begin to repopulate the territories, because, as Luis Antonio Sáez, professor of applied economics at the University of Zaragoza, the broadband alone does not attract, but its lack therefore generates rejection. On the other hand, we would like to highlight some of the contradictions of the citizens' lords and ladies, such as that of point 8, because it is impossible to highlight the importance of the primary sector and facilitate its development and modernization while parties like yours, that of Citizens, continue to promote free trade treaties. We have seen this in the case of the Valencian citrus, with the South African treaty. On the other hand, with regard to points 8e and 8d, it would be interesting for the citizens to clarify what you consider to be to be done with abandoned agricultural land, to encourage it to be cultivated, to be used for pasture or to be used for forestry. Apart from that it is already something we are dealing with, therefore, in the Agrarian Spaces Act. And finally, we would also like to say that this proposal that we are bringing today, in some respects, is short, because at no time is it talked about promoting entrepreneurship and sustainable management in the rural world; neither at any time is it talked about the role of women in the rural world, nor is this motion telling us about the causes of why the rural world is becoming less and less population and less economic weight. And the maximum combination is that you present short and contradictory motions, because in order to fight against the territorial imbalance it is not worth making any motion, it is worth defending a model of management of the sustainable rural world, which really fights against the territorial imbalance, something that runs counter to the policies and model of privatization, precariousness and liberalization that you defend, that is the only thing that does it is to expel people from the countryside. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.303.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next and to fix its position has the word, in the first place, the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the deputy lady Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.304.0	We'll get him out of here. We will be brief, because many of the questions have already been said, especially the first, the question of certainly contradictions. I won't repeat what they've already said: the lack of concreteness, and a little bit, won't I? , with questions that we believe are not priorities when we talk about the title of this movement: "Rural land and high mountains. A question about point 3, for example: we share the attitude that the deputy of the commons has just made, the importance you place in drawing strategic lines to know how to plant horizons must be stalled in the territories, connected..., and where all socioeconomic, political and social agents participated. The gang of faults that have already been said, too, questions that I would say that no one has commented, interesting questions about agricultural custody, as well as the role of the woman in the rural world are indispensable if really what is trying to lay is something that is really interesting for the rural world. It makes us feel like I'm sorry... I mean, I don't have any idea what you're seeing, but it makes us feel a little bit like it's a young man from the Passage of Grace, to say the least; it didn't take into account the look and the local needs. [[Widow's remorse.]] On the other hand, they have surprised us, for example, some questions about telehealth... [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] We have been surprised by some questions about telehealth, at the same time that put in value the hospitals of montanya. Let us watch over these questions, because salvation cannot be made by telematics, depending on where you were born, and a primary and direct attention if you were born, I insist, to the metropolitan area. Finally, in order not to insist on questions that have already been said, with a question that we also find lacking in speaking the high mountain areas..., about making his intervention, for example, in the Aranes. We would have liked it, and in fact we hoped... : « Look, Ciutadans will perhaps put in value the need to preserve the language, to preserve the identity traits of the Aran, and neither tracks. And, finally, also, one of the fundamental questions, such as the preservation of the territory. If we want to talk about the Pyrenees, if we are talking about the areas and the preservation of the territory and their priority questions, cal, sense dubte – and I hope we can soon do this – we are discussing the possible prospecting and mining investigations, because large transnationals are trying to fill the territory of these areas precisely.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.305.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.306.0	Yes; thank you, President. Very briefly, to transfer our support to this motion, very similar to one that we discussed and approved in the last parliamentary term promoted by our group. Essentially, by three elements which contemplated that and which also contemplates, even enlarged, this, which is very long. The first is to ensure public services in rural areas. The second, addressing the demographic challenge; fundamental. And the third, reverse those elements that penalize the rural world. Avoid people leaving, encourage some to come back and also encourage those who have never been to develop their life plan there. We are talking about information and communication technologies; we are talking, in the end, about all the infrastructures that are necessary for these three conditions to occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.307.0	Thank you, Congressman. And now, to position himself on the papers presented, has the word of Mr. Javier Rivas, again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.308.0	Thank you, President. And the first, very important, that I don't forget, to give thanks to the Pyrenees companies, and to Yolanda, even though you don't follow the Pyrenees..., but you're invited, we wait for you. Both Óscar and Anna, as well as Francesc, thank you for the suggestions, thank you for the reviews. I'm not going to argue, because I think we've already had a lot of discussions in the transactional process, and we've had a lot of disagreements, haven't we? I will set an example, only, of what we have accepted, why we have accepted it, and what we have not, why we have not accepted it. That is, whatever is propository, whatever it is, we understand each other, we have accepted it willingly, and with a very propository spirit. What we do not accept is the things that distort that which is really our will. For example, because I don't have time, do I? Point 5 that Francesc said about mobility plans. He says: "No, it is that they are already done, then we vote against this, because as they are already done, for there is no need to do them again. Well, it's as easy as it is that if they are done, then actually vote for it, and when the opposition, from our legitimate role, let's say: "Hey, introduce me to the plan that Parliament approved, because as you have already done, you present it, if not, it must be that it is not done. Then, in the tripijocs these we won't enter. But I do want to stay with the positive part of the work that we have done together, and the will that it does not start and end here, that it is not another motion of the many that are approved. There was one last legislature of the PSC and the similar People's Party, similar, in this line, but it has already been discussed this afternoon in this chamber that things are approved that are then toasts to the sun, that do not translate into real facts, right? And the rural world, which is a whole world, I repeat; some criticized me that the motion was short, and others that was long; it is normal, I understand. I mean, everything couldn't be put on, because it's a whole world. But what I think we all agree on is that it needs solutions, that it needs intervention from the administration. Our will, I repeat, is for us to understand each other. I think... well, I don't think so, I know we all open our eyes under the same sky and drink from the same river, and we're bound to understand ourselves. Thank you! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.309.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. [[Pause.]] Yes, ma'am Granados...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.310.0	Yes, for a separate vote on point 2, and point 8.d, from Denmark. You'd have to serve separately, these two, president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.311.0	Yes, Mrs. Sánchez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.312.0	I know it's hard, but we'd like to vote for all the separate points. [[Widow's remorse.]] And the subpoints of... – I'm sorry, for a moment – of the 8th point vote separate the subpoint and, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.313.0	You're aware that it's 15 points and a few subpoints, huh? [[Pause.]] In any case, are you sure they can't be grouped together by the vote? Because then it turns out that we have separate votes in which the same results are produced as in the previous one.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.314.0	Sure. We're inexperienced, but we've tried, we're willing to go home, too. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.315.0	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.316.0	But one thing... one thing only: on the subpoints, of the point eight only the subpoint... one, the e is separated, and the rest go together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.317.0	Yes, but the 8.d point has also been requested.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.318.0	Ah! Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.319.0	D, huh? , d from Denmark. All right. So, start voting... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, Mrs. Caula...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.320.0	I know it's hard, but it's still possible, maybe... we'd ask for a separate vote from all the points and also all the subpoints. We'd make a proposal, if that's what it looks like. It's a vote, so I think with enough diversity, as we'll see during the vote. For our part, subpoint 9.e, 9.f, 9.g, 9.h together, then, with points 11, 13, 14 and 15, could be grouped together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.321.0	We'll vote separately for all the sub-points, because we'll end up before we put it together. We're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.322.0	Even so – if we allow it – we would understand that when we voted a point we voted on the statement in the content of this point, that it was one of the doubts that there was in one of which there were many and many subpoints.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.323.0	We'll vote for the point and then every subpoint, every letter.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.324.0	Exactly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.325.0	All right, so-so. We're voting point number one. The vote begins. This was approved by 113 votes to three, with eight abstentions. Let's now vote for number two. The vote begins. Point 2 was rejected by 47 votes to 60, with 16 abstentions. Let's just move on to vote number three, shall we? Third. The vote begins. Point 3a was approved by 121 votes to three, with no abstentions. We're voting now on point 3.b. The vote begins. Point 3.b was approved by 121 votes to three, with no abstentions. Let's go now and vote point 3.c. The vote begins. Point 3.c was approved by 121 votes to three, with no abstentions. And now we're going to vote number four. The vote begins. Point 4 was approved by 123 votes to one, with no abstentions. We're going to now vote point number 5a– 5a, huh? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The vote begins. Point 5a was approved by 65 votes to 58, with no abstentions. Let's go now and vote point 5.b. The vote begins. This point was approved unanimously, 124 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's go now and vote point 6. The vote begins. Point 6a was approved by 64 votes to 60, with no abstentions. Let's go now and vote point 6.b. The vote begins. Point 6.b was approved by 121 votes to three, with no abstentions. Let's go now and vote point seven. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 121 votes to none, with 3 abstentions. Let's now vote on point 8.a– 8.a. The vote begins. Point 8a was approved by 61 votes to three, with 55 abstentions. Let's move on to vote point 8.b. The vote begins. Point 8.b was rejected by 63 votes to 61 in favour, with no abstentions. Let's just move on to vote on point 8.c. The vote begins. Point 8.c was approved by 121 votes to three, with no abstentions. We're voting now for point 8.d. The vote begins. Point 8.d is rejected by 45 votes in favour, 79 against and no abstentions. And now we're voting point 8. The vote begins. Point 8.e was approved by 64 votes to 60. Let's just move on to vote 9th. The vote begins. Point 9a was approved by 121 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. Let's move on to vote point 9.b. The vote begins. Point 9.b was approved by 121 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. Let's just move on to vote point 9.c. The vote begins. Point 9.c was approved by 61 votes to 60, with 3 abstentions. And now we're going to point 9.d. The vote begins. Point 9.d was approved by 61 votes to 60, with 3 abstentions. Let's move on to vote point 9. The vote begins. Point 9.e was approved by 121 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. Let's move on to vote point 9.f. The vote begins. Point 9.f was approved by 121 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. Let's go now and vote on point 9.g. The vote begins. Point 9.g is approved unanimously. That is to say, 124 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're going to vote at 9 a.m. The vote begins. 9 a.m. was approved by 121 votes in favour, against and 3 abstentions. Let's just move on to vote point number 10. The vote begins. Point 10 was approved by 61 votes to three, with 60 abstentions. Let's go now and vote point 11. The vote begins. Point 11 was approved by 121 votes to three, with no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote on the dot. The vote begins. The dotzè point was approved by 64 votes in favour, against and 60 abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the tretze point. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 121 votes to none, with 3 abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the 14th point. The vote begins. The fourteen-point was approved by 124 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we're voting now for the 15th. The vote begins. The fifteen-point was approved by 124 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Yes, Mrs. Caula, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.326.0	We did it before there was any statement that it's also as voteable as it is, we would ask for a final vote on point 5. The others, in our view, vote in favour and we believe that they could be included. But we're asking for this one, the one at point 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-01-24-2302.327.0	All right. We're voting, so, point 5, what's the announcement, huh? The vote begins. The five-point, its statement, was approved by 64 votes to 60, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] And we think we've already voted all the points of this young man. The session's up.
