ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.1.0	Deputies, deputies, good morning. Let's start the session. Before I begin with the order of the day, let me congratulate the parliamentary groups, the government and the entities for the consensus and the pact against the electoralist use of immigration and the use of racist expressions during this electoral cycle. It therefore congratulates and congratulates the parliamentary groups, governments and entities. [[Greetings.]] The list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is enclosed in the folder. In accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning as the first item on the order of the day of this plenary session. In accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure, I recall that the deputy Adriana Delgado, for reasons of motherhood, delegates the vote to the deputy Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, and, thus, that the deputy Albert Batet, for reasons of fatherhood, has delegated the vote for this plenary session to the deputy Eduard Pujol, spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. Thus, the record also by Oriol Junqueras and Raül Romeva deputies appointed Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, to exercise their parliamentary rights. Let's start now, then, the questions to the government. [[Ask the Government about the situation of the Martorell Automotive Professional Training Centre (Baix Llobregat)]] [[310-00140/12]] The first question to answer orally is about the situation of the Professional Training Centre of Automotive Martorell, at Baix Llobregat ; question formulated for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. The question is posed by Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, honourable Councillor El Homrani. As you know, just a few days ago the Clúster de l'Industrie de l'AutomociÃ© in Catalunya lacked a strategic support plan for the sector. And, among many other complaints, he announced that, before the political blockade caused by the differences in his government, he was looking for alternatives to the Martorell Automotive FP Centre, to precisely meet the demand for specialized training, for the lack of management that you have made of the centre the last few years. Counselor, what is the government's understanding of the situation of Martorell's Automotive Professional Training Centre at these times? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word has the advisor of Work, Afers Socials and Families, Lord Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.4.0	Thank you, President. Member, the government's understanding of the situation of the Automotive Vocational Training Centre is to continue the momentum of vocational training and to broaden its scope; to take advantage of this training centre to integrate the two vocational training subsystems – initial vocational training and vocational training for employment –, the competence of this government, through various departments, and to work together to be an integrated reference centre and to give response to the needs of the sector.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.5.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.6.0	Look, counselor, more than two years ago, the work began for this centre of reference formation, designed for a vital sector for the economy, for the occupation in Catalonia, and intended to give response to the needs of the automotive industry, thinking about its future and also about the future of its workers and workers. In fact, the project was born at the time of the Governing Council presided over by José Montilla in 2009, and today, two years later, this centre is still blocked and underused. And the worst of all, it is still underutilized and blocked by the incapacity of the last independent governments, by its inaction, for which there seems to be a lack of willingness to push a center with a huge potential for transformation in a context where the automotive sector faces an important challenge of transformation and where this formation can exert a lever of change and also favor job reintegration. Therefore, he inaction, incapacitated, left behind and also discrepancy in his government's self on how to deploy this centre. Counselor, we're ahead of a capital failure of your government. Look, after two years of land abandonment, its construction ended in September 2014, with a reversal of almost 18_million euros; 18_million euros that have been lenght if this centre does not end up in a march, urgently, this training offer– plus, to you, councillor, it has finished the credit –; 18_million euros in a center where the government has misused resources and is disenfranchising potential; 18_million euros in a center that has come to inaugurate 2015 and that has only trained three hundred people, when it has a capacity of fourteen_ thousand students, that it has disassembled_ thousand_metres_squares, that it was designed for dual initial training, a major training set out of this undertaking, connecting the technology with the project. In the face of this disaster, counselor, what strategy do you have? While the SEAT announces the manufacture of our vehicles, it confirms the bet for us electric and hybrid vehicles, what are you doing? Are they still stuck? Don't you see that training is also crucial for the conversion of many workers specialising in more mechanical cars into experts in less polluting and future technologies? We don't know if they're looking at the future...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.7.0	Congresswoman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.8.0	...or if there are too many districts looking for a republic. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.9.0	To answer, again, the word has the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.10.0	Thank you, President. Member, as you said, we have an automotive sector with the capacity to respond. Last week, SEAT made public the best results given in its history, the best results of benefits. And what the training centre has to do is be an integrated centre, this in the development framework that this Government is doing both from the Law of Vocational Training and from the Catalan Agency of Vocational Training..., as the deployment of the territorial strategies of the SOC, an integrated centre with a single operator, and in this we are working, to make a bid for a single operator to give a response to all the integration of needs, and in the framework of what is for us a cabal element that constitutes and is the origin of the vocational training laws and of the SOC and which forms part of the way of hearing from the Treball Department, which is based on social concertation and consensus. We are at a time when expanding the whole fabric of comprehensive reference training centres is necessary with consensus and with the clear role of social and economic agents; of the needs of sectors and of the territory. And it is around this line that we are working in the bidding of the center, because there is a single manager, which allows this integration and which allows you to give answers both from the point of view of the initial training, of the degrees of professional training of the initial vocational training system, such as, in relation to the continuous training, the concrete needs of the workers in the sector, such as the training for the occupation of workers and workers in progress. And that's what we're working on, and that's what we're taking away in no time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.11.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the functioning of health services]] [[310-00147/12]] The next question is about the functioning of health services. The question is raised, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, by Mr Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.12.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. He'll advise, last year, the waiting lists have increased again. With you, in Catalonia, the waiting list for a diagnostic test has increased by 23.5_per_cent, with 28,000 patients more than a year ago. You already have 146,000 patients waiting for proof to know what's going on. The surgical waiting list has increased by 10_per_cent, with several thousand more patients; now there are 178,000 patients waiting for them to operate. The waiting list for a specialist doctor has also increased by 6_per_cent, and nearly half a million patients are waiting for a visit, half a million patients in regular. We still have the past of the rubber-to- rubber emergency; we have a collapsed primary attention, and they have not implemented much better. A few months ago, Ciutadans brought here to Parliament a bill to help unlock these waiting lists, to give you here to Parliament to the professionals, so that, among all, with consensus, you can find cross-cutting solutions to improve them. But you voted against this debate, shutting it down. Ciutadans proposed to work there all folds, to reduce territorial inequalities as well. But you closed the doors to the debate. You could improve your waiting lists with consent and from the hands of experts, but now we know that your solution was to prevent debate and bring a decree. Since we don't have a government that can handle some of the presuppositions in Parliament, we'll settle another decree. And while the waiting lists continue to grow. While you write decrees, without consent, the professionals have to endure working on some unfortunate conditions, which are painful for them and consequently for the patient. Do you still think the counselor, like President Torra, that these are minor issues, that it is not essential to devote itself to improving the health system? He will advise, you speak only of social policies in speeches, with words, but in Catalonia they are facts, because they passed the years and the situation is unsustainable. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.13.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the words of the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.14.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. You know, and you know it perfectly well, that we have put primary care, professional care and the gender perspective at the centre of health policies, and that's why we don't leave all the other debates and all the other tasks, like waiting lists, in the end, all the opposite. You say: "I want facts. So here's the thing. We don't just have to be pointers in that more complex, that we are in our system and that we have to be proud of, but we have a big challenge, that it's chronic; it's like accompanying people in their loss of health processes and also promoting their health so that they don't get to be complex chronic patients. This is a vent that we have in the health system – ranging from prevention, primary care, external consultations, trials, interventions, from the least read or the least difficult to the most complex... – and in all this vent we are there. Because we do not prevent any debate, Mr Soler, we do not prevent any debate, as you have tried in this Parliament, and that is why the President of the Parliament is being judged, because she did not prevent any debate in the Parliament of Catalonia. We have increased surgical intervention activity while reducing waiting time, reduced waiting time for diagnostic tests, and reduced waiting time for consultations. In concrete terms, we increase the activity by 3.2_per_cent, reduce the waiting time by 14_per_cent, reduce the waiting time for tests by 6_per_cent, and reduce the waiting time for consultations with specialists, from the first specialist visit, by 19.3_per_cent. Do you know what this is? Fetches. This is managed, managed and managed: he managed carefully from the centers; he managed protected for the Department of Health; this is to rule from the Department of Health through the health regions with the centers. You don't like us running. You're in Andalusia, huh? – in Andalusia –, to remove the PSOE for having picked up the waiting lists – because it has stored them, the PSOE –, you leave in the hands of the most corrupt and privatizing right the Council of Health and Families. That's what you guys do. Or maybe they're all right now, huh? - Or maybe you're already okay with that? As long as the weights to you, we won't stop ruling, so we have a majority to do so and you don't have it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.15.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about neutrality in educational centres]] [[310-00148/12]] The next question is about neutrality in educational centres. The question is put, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, by Mrs Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.16.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, Counselor. Last week, Adam Majó, who is such a radical gentleman who left the CUP because it seemed to him that they were too soft on the issue of independence, was in this Parliament and explained such barbarities, that three parties we have asked for his resignation. And one of the things he told us is that one of his duties is to advise schools. Is this true, Mr. Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.17.0	To answer, the word has the advisor of Education, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.18.0	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't have any knowledge of it, so, what you're telling me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.20.0	Counselor, I told you and I repeat: you don't know anything about what's going on in the schools and the inspectors are kidding you. Turns out we're paying ninety thousand euros to a radical for indoctrining our students. And not only that, it turns out we've seen the mossos pull yellow bonds and political propaganda out of the schools. And I'm sure he's going to tell me now that seven centers are very few, because look, one, to us, would seem too much. But of course, you are not indignant because in schools there are yellow bonds and separatist propaganda, which is very serious. No, no, you're indignant because they take it off; you're indignant because the mossos do the work that you and your inspectors don't do. Look, we've been saying there's indoctrination in schools a long time, and you're denying it, but now we have this TV3 headline who gives us the reason: "Some schools have yellow bonds and political propaganda. Which is the same thing that I told you in an interrogation and that you denied me. But it's not just that, it's that on TV3 they explained that it was the children who had painted the political ties. Do you believe that families can go quietly, leave their children in schools, knowing that it is their turn to paint political propaganda on that day? But of course, how are we going to believe that you are going to do nothing to ensure neutrality in schools, if you have appointed Anna Simó as President of the School Council, who on September 20 was preventing the departure of a judicial committee – which is very serious – by shouting, "will not go out, will not go out the door? How are we going to believe that you are going to do anything for neutrality in schools, if you are already a line of education counselors and high-ranking officials accused of an illegal referendum? Look, the problem is not with teachers, because most teachers in Catalonia do their job very well. The problem lies in politicians; in politicians who believe that schools are factories of future separatists. Well, look, for us, schools are the places to train good students, good people and good citizens. Learn a little bit. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.21.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.22.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman, I congratulate you. You're able to condense in two minutes and half the whole ideological falsification of your party – all –; you've concentrated – all. [[Greetings.]] Not just that– not just that– plus the story, let's say, gestures, too, huh? You went to a class where you explained how to do it. And this course said: repeat words, teach signs, sweep things, say... And you went to class. It's a couple of courses that you're a fan of at-school debates, that are published, and you're following them perfectly. But look, you can apply the course to your analysis of the education system. The education system is very different from what you say. The inspectors are professional. You spent the day saying: "Let us defend the professionals; but not the inspectors; but not the teachers; but not the directors. You attack the professionals. And they attack the professionals, because they want to attack the system. And attack the professionals, because they're not right. Miri, come in... I didn't teach posters. Jo, at the end of the day, I'm not gonna teach you one that I'm wearing for you. As I already knew that you would teach me, I thought: "Stay educated and wear 'n' one. Miri, between 22 or 23 or 25 of last month, the Mossos d'Esquadra, like the police, visited 2,700 schools; they raised fifty-nine acts, some of which to have liles links. But listen, look, if the education system is on your hands, do you know what future you'd expect? So, look, I have a folder for you. The future of the education system in the hands of Ciutadans is this [[the counselor shows a black postcard]] , for one dear and the other. [[Greetings.]] A future of darkness, a future of reparation, a future of perversity, a future that, fortunately, will never exist. Luckily, the school is in the hands of the teachers and not of you. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the protection of freedom of expression and political plurality in public space]] [[310-00149/12]] The next question is about the protection of freedom of expression and political plurality in public space. Formulated, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, for Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.24.0	Good morning, Mr. Buch. During 2018, the Catalan parties denounced an attack on their headquarters every four days; the independence parties denounced three times less. In the first quarter of the year, several sites of Citizens in Catalonia, those of Barcelona, Hospitalet, Montcada and Vallirana, were attacked six times; the last, on 19 March, to hammer against the crystals and with painted. On March 26 she was also beaten against the PP headquarters in Terrassa, some hooded men, dressed in black and hammered. On 30 March, violent attacks on demonstrators took place in an authorized demonstration. What is your Government doing to defend individuals and political parties from the fascist attacks of independence?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.25.0	To answer, the Vice President of the Generality has the word, whom I take advantage to congratulate for his recent fatherhood, which I have not done before; sorry, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.26.0	Thank you, President. Mr. MP, this is a government that condemns any attack on freedom of speech, any attack on any of its political formations. Recently, its Ciutadans de Catalunya central office suffered an attack and I myself was able to contact the president of your parliamentary group personally to express a rebuttal to this action and to make us available to your parliamentary group, because we are to defend the political freedoms and the freedom of expression of everyone. And let me just say it's a little bit... chance, in this case, causes you to ask a question in favor of freedom of expression after making a precise demand against our classrooms. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.27.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.28.0	Well, what a surprise that Mr. Buch hides behind the vice president in order not to answer his absolute inoperation in the protection of public space and the neutrality of public space, what a big surprise. Mr Buch no longer dares to answer about his inoperability. And I will continue to put it to Mr Buch, and if you wish, Mr Vice-President, you will answer it. But, look, these attacks have been claimed in a tweet by Arran. While beating hammers, they put music as glorifying violence, in the purest style of the far right. And a party in this chamber has explicitly supported these attacks by Arran. I ask you, what are you going to do? , if you already know who they are, if even at the demonstration the other day, authorized, in which they assaulted several people, there were arrests and was claimed by Arran, what is happening that have not already stopped those who claim violent actions on Twitter? Why have no arrests already taken place? We demand as democrats at the point of view of the violent radicals who defend us, that they defend Catalan society from those who use violence to impose their ideas. We are already going to do something about the inoperability of this government that drives this kind of violence and looks elsewhere. We're going to ask that none, that Catalans don't pay with our money, not be paid with public funds to those parties that use violence to impose their ideas on others. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.29.0	To answer the word again, the vice president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.30.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, Mr. Carrizosa, I rectified. You said this government is driving violence. This is plainly false and they ask you to correct and withdraw from the session log this expression, because we do not accept it – we do not accept it. They know perfectly well that this government does not only reject any violent attack, on any person, have whatever ideology it has, not only that, but also, of course, the professionals of the public administration of this country act accordingly. And, obviously, about the attacks that you have placed on the table, with the opportune complaint that has presented itself to the Squad's Squad's Coss are bringing to an end the opportune steps. And we from the government won't, the politicians, tell the police what they have to do and how they have to carry out concrete investigations. Trust in the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, and trust also, obviously, in the conjunction of professionals. I make him a proposal, Mr Carrizosa, a proposal which made the « denostate for you Adam Majó, precisely, the director of the Office of Civil and Political Rights, which for this reason I answer this question, because his question, which entered the Register, was about freedom of expression, a civil and political right, competence, promotion, of the Vice-President's Department. We make an agreement, we make an agreement between all the parliamentary groups of this chamber to automatically condemn any violent attack that any political party has. Do it. We've made this proposal. And if you accept it, we can pull it forward, the proposal made by Mr. Adam Majó. And from here, obviously, the government is acting, and they are acting, and trusting in the Squad's Mosses Cos, also trusting in justice, which you often defend, which, obviously, opens up the opportune diligencies before attacks like these. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.31.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Asks the Government about the implementation of the Law 24/2015, urgent measures to address the emergence in the field of housing and energy poverty]] [[310-00141/12]] The following question, on the application of the Law 24/2015, of urgent measures to face the emergence in the field of housing and the poor energy, question formulated for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. Mrs Susanna Segovia asks the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.32.0	Good morning, Counselor. Last week there was a new denunciation in Manresa where we had the opportunity to see an excessive, disproportionate use of force on the part of the Squadron Mosses. What did your advice do to avoid this denunciation? For this month of April, there are only families in Barcelona who also have a denunciation notice. What's your advice doing with these families, what answer are you giving them? On December 18, 2015, you will surely know that there was a communication from the Catalan Agency of Habitatage, which said that at article 3 of the Civil Code all the current denunciations had to be made a social logger offer before they were executed. If that's the case, why do they currently continue to have denunciations without families having a housing alternative?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.33.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.34.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, Congresswoman... The government is ruling; the government, therefore, before the reality of the denunciations what it does is, therefore, to legislate. For example, the Government has recently approved a decree, which seeks to validate the week coming to Parliament and which therefore expects it to be able to vote in favour of most of the groups, also to process it as a bill to finish developing it correctly, a decree in which we deploy 24/15, a 24/25 which was approved, say, on a popular initiative, which was approved for the totality of this Parliament, but which was suspended by the Constitutional Court, and which once there was a change of government in Madrid, therefore, has been negotiated between the State and the Government of the General for such power, therefore, to withdraw this appeal from the Government of the State and to be able to deploy the articles that allow you to act in cases where you have no habitat. This required the decree that we approved as the Government, and that, I insist, we want to validate the Parliament next week. And this decree is allowing, first, many; after expropriations of use and, finally, this is new, expropriation even of the property of these same habitats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.35.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.36.0	Counselor, do you know how many months Manresa's family was carrying at the emergency table, because they had passed the criteria and had a right to a habitation? Six months. Do you know what answer this family had in these six months? The presence of the Mossos, which will help to make her out of her house, from the house where they live. They have spent months without doing anything, and now they have come from the hand of a decree that they have made alone, from the scale to the organizations and entities that precisely imposed the ILP of the 24/2015, from the scale to the assemblies, that every day they are the ones that are actually facing the housing emergency. Once again, you get your hands together and let the gatherings that do... no, don't rule, and when they do, they do it late and they do it badly. In this decree you boldly hold the hands of the Emergencies and say that it is a thing of the Energencies, that the Energencies make temporary stays, that the Energencies see how they respond to families who are in the months of Emergencies, because, more than that, they would not have access to protected habitats. "Assemblies, vagina makes, that the Generality is occupied in other things. Do you really believe that it will give an answer to the housing emergency with a decree that, as it is now, liberalizes socialloggers, protectedloggers, which will cause segregation by barriers and income? Besides, they say that, well, if really somewhere, of course, housing has to be a lot because, because they are very caring areas, then they will pay the difference from the Government of the Generality. Especially if they don't lose the promoters, especially if I don't lose who's speculating about housing; more public money for them, who are the only ones who actually have protections from this decree. Counselor, you cheat; you cheat, and you should think you should regulate... One time you asked us for help, he said: "Help us, please, to do the housing policy. So, all right, we help, we offer: withdraw this decree, make it a new one, do it with the organizations...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.37.0	Congresswoman, we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.38.0	...we do it with the gatherings and that truly woman... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.39.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.40.0	Thank you, President. Madam Member, we are not cheating, and I regret that the decree has not been properly read, because we do not liberalize the priests. It is necessary to distinguish between the price of the module and the maximum income of persons or families accessing these habitats. We regulate this qualifiable logger, according to what the 24/15 says, is to say, refer to the maximum returns of people, of families who access these habitats and let them only for the payment to logger the percentage that defines the 24/15. With this decree, what we can do is, for example, that we can develop endowment accommodation in equipment plots, which is what you were asking for now. The programs that had been placed on the table by some meetings so far, it was not possible to develop them, and precisely with this decree we can do so. We're not holding hands or centrifuging responsibilities. We, from the responsibility of the Government in the matter of housing, seek the joint responsibility of the joint ventures, seek that the joint ventures do not go beyond the Generality, and also set aside resources and premises for the development of these policies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.41.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.42.0	And yes, we asked for help from the assumptions of the State...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.43.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the situation of private management of health services]] [[310-00142/12]] The next question is about the situation of the private management of the health services, formulated, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, for the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.44.0	Good morning, Counselor. As you know, since the CUP we have been defending a public health system of 100_per_cent as regards ownership, management and provision. Beyond that, we are concerned, above all because of the lack of resources we have for public health, when resources are misused through private management. And we'd like to ask him a group of questions, three questions, about this question. First question we want to ask you: will you or your advisory maintain a management system that allows five high levels of agreed sanitation, the one we all pay, to cover the year more than 150,000_euros? Second question, Counselor. For more than three years now, we have been in force for the health transport contract. A good part of the contracting companies do not complete the departure of conditions; you sanction them, and they continue to fail. They are incomplete even when the same companies plant as conditions to improve. Second question: will you still maintain a private management system that is proven fraudulent and inefficient in terms of private management of health transport? The third question. You should know or should know that after months the collection of Technicians in Lluita develops a whole series of mobilizations where the centrality of its petitions is improving the working conditions and internalizing a good part of the health service, in essence that of the health transport. This collection, through its representatives, has made a whole series of petitions in the form of questions and information to its advice that have not been answered. You had to act the Greuges Synod in a complaint procedure giving the reason to this collection because you gave the information. Who's the reason why they don't even give so much information about private public health management?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.45.0	To answer the word has the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.46.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, our system is not, nor will it be, a trading system. Our system of salvation is a public system, universal, that ages for territorial equity, that ages for quality. This is the system we have, and the most important thing we have is the confidence of the citizenry in this system of salvation. And in those terms we will continue to work. We have worked for the universalization of salvation, demanding that the appeal against our law be withdrawn, because the sovereignty of this Parliament is respected, and not the laws that can make us from the Congress of Deputies, and we obviously work to maintain and enhance the public character of our system of salvation. So we'll find each other here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.47.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.48.0	Counselor, we would have liked one of the three questions you asked me to answer, one. If you answer two of us, it'll be wonderful, and even the third, we'll be very grateful or very grateful. Look, what can't be done is a practice in her parliament that's privatizing what's public. Because you don't give an answer about the public, but an answer from your vision; not so alone from the government, not so alone from the council, but even from the party. Therefore, answer what is asked in your parliamentary office. We're on it! If I kept a system that you say is not a market... Isn't it a market that there are five directions that with our resources, that we obviously have very limited, cover 150,000 euros a year? Isn't that market, with the lack of resources we have in public health? It's not a market for private businesses that permanently fail to complete the departures of conditions, which is not allowed...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.49.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.50.0	...the head of a natural person? Isn't that a market thing?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.51.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.52.0	Congressman, and we're very much in agreement! The health transport competition – public competition, by the way – is the largest competition the Government of Catalonia has made in recent years: it is more than 200_million euros a year, with a possibility of extensions up to two years. So, I'm on top, I'm absolutely on top, and I'm getting older because the health, emergency, and medical transportation service, both emergency and non-urgent, is doing as close as possible. For this reason, the CatSalut imposes sanctions, as you well said: eighty-seven penalties initiated, worth more than 1_million euros; of these, sixty-seven shippers are already resolved, for more than 850,000_euros. I like to have to impose sanctions on companies for doing their job? I'm old for public service. I don't like to impose sanctions, I don't think it would be hot. And that's why I'm asking you, I'm asking you: take a game – take a game. And taking part means taking responsibility. Do we want to talk about the model of sanitary transport? So let's talk. But then we'll have to leave the dogmas at home, put all our ideology there, because obviously, in the debates we all want to put our ideology and, more importantly, to leave behind, above, it still seems much better... So take a game, take responsibility, talk about the model of health transport, talk about the model of rehabilitation... because we're working as a government. Do you want to work with us together? So let's do it. We are on the side of both healthcare professionals and the rest of this country, because we are on the side of public services in this country. We are on the side that this system must respond to the need for salvation. So, here, we'll find each other, Congressman. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.53.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the participation of companies in international events]] [[310-00143/12]] The next question is about the participation of companies in international events, formulated, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, by Mrs Anna Tarrés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.54.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Consellera Chacón. « Inversion, « exportation, « innovation, « digitalization, « being international, are words that form part of a society with a vocation to grow and prosper. At present, the challenges of the future that an interconnected world poses to us, such as economic globalisation, internationalization or adaptation of the labour market before social and demographic changes, place us in a scene of model changes. In Catalonia, the business and industrial ecosystem, from the hand always of our Government, must aspire to be the engine that leads such essential aspects as the industrial revolution 4.0 or the fact of working from a more joint perspective, called "holistic", we incorporate the notion of the ecosystem, of entrepreneurship and of innovation; innovation as a concept relevant, as far as all related economic agents are concerned and in which we label, in a very broad sense, policies of sustainable growth. Catalan exports in 2017 grew by 8.7_per_cent compared to 2016, the largest increase in the past six years, and we accounted for almost 71,000_million euros, remembering for seven years as a result. In this sense, for countries, Catalonia would have been the ninth fastest growing economy in the eurozone. We are still willing to grow up, to be present all over the world, and above all we want to continue to have a dedicated environment to negotiate with a strong presence of multinationals. Currently there are more than eight thousand foreign businesses in Catalonia, almost one of every three. It must be said that recently we have had the recognition of publications like the Financial Times, which has identified Catalonia as the most attractive region in southern Europe in terms of foreign investment in 2018 and 2019. Therefore, would you advise, in order to continue to maintain this role, could you please explain to us how Catalan companies participate in the different international events? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.55.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word, the Counsellor of Enterprise and Knowledge, Mrs. Maria Àngels Chacón.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.56.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Indeed, we have demonstrated – and I believe we do not only believe it, but practice it – that we want to be an actor in this new global economy. We do it through the department, we do it through Action, the Agency for Enterprise Competitiveness, and we do it through the Department of Trade and Investment, of Action. What are we doing to help these businesses interact with these international events? In the first place, business missions. More than thirty in the year; in total, with other agents, they arrive at the 100 business missions. Some three-quarters of these are international, one-quarter is inverse. We also actively participate in the European Network for the Promotion of Cooperation and Innovation. We are also realizing many B2B events in international fires, such as the Mobile World Congress, for example. We're already preparing some of the threads that we're joining to Catalunya from around the world, such as the Integrated Systems Europe. It is a fir that was held in Amsterdam until now, it will be celebrated in Catalonia two years from now in the audiovisual sector; it is a version, they say, in the audiovisual sector such as Mobile, a world reference, in which we are already preparing companies, agents linked to training, technological centers to interact with all this event. We have participated, as it cannot otherwise be, in the Mobile World Congress. We have more than one hundred and two Catalan companies, seventy-seven of which with the Generality's flag. In the Four Years From Now, also of the Mobile World Congress, of seven hundred start-ups from all over the world, one hundred and forty were Catalans; so, therefore, the presence more than blunt in this event. We also participate, help these start-ups participate in international events, such as the NOAH Conference, in London, or the Next Web, in Amsterdam. And, obviously, the new version of the Action Offices, which is Catalonia Exponential, where we interact these start-ups with the entire global ecosystem. At the end and end, results; results that bring us that 2009 there were to Catalonia twelve_ thousand companies that export regularly– 2009, twelve_ thousand–; this year, 2019, we already have disset_ thousand. Therefore, five thousand more companies are regular exporters in our product fabric. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.57.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about its preparation before the impact of advanced digital technologies]] [[310-00144/12]] The next question is about the impact of advanced digital technologies. Asks the question, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Josep Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.58.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Puigneró, last week, the Government guarded Vinton Cerf with the 2018 Catalonia International Award, for his contribution to the development of the Internet as the basic infrastructure and open network to everyone. Cerf is the first technologist to answer the Catalonia International Prize, but they will definitely come more. Just as in your day the internet burst hardly predicts how our lives will change and has changed them, a similar thing will happen or is happening with artificial intelligence. The Internet has arrived to stay and artificial intelligence is a key technology that will serve, if a good use is made, to improve people's lives. We do not see very real applications, for example, in the program Cannot be, which has recently released TV3 and which Jordi Basté presents. Although the concept of "artificial intelligence" is not new, its combination with other technologies, such as the Internet of Things, computer viewing, massive data or intelligent sensors, this combination will allow for a leap forward and provide for many breakthroughs in mobility, health, environment, automotive, governance, etc. Catalonia is a powerful nucleus of artificial intelligence already from the end of the 20th century, in which it began to develop from research groups in universities. We have large infrastructure in Catalonia, and large international companies invest in artificial intelligence projects in our country. We have an ecosystem of emerging and multinational companies working here for their research and development. In this way, Barcelona is positioned as the fourth city of the world for the future technology, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers, and we have a unique opportunity to consolidate Catalonia as the centre of international reference of first magnitude. And let me also tell you, it's not a coincidence that this government has a Digital Policy Council that puts all these technological advances first. Together for Catalonia, we would like to know how the Government is preparing for the impact of advanced digital technologies such as artificial intelligence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.59.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration Jordi Puigneró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.60.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning, deputies and deputies. Miri, let's start by reminding the deputies and deputies that today forty-six years ago, in concrete, that it was the first call with a mobile phone. Martin Cooper designed the first mobile phone, which is becoming one of the most decisive technologies in this 21st century. And today, what is the world capital of furniture? Our country. Catalonia, Barcelona, has at these moments the most important technological development of the world and, therefore, this is not the result of chance, it is the result of the work not only of this government, but also of the previous governments, who have sought that in this digital revolution we continue to pioneer. Miri, one of the advanced digital technologies that we will see in our own years... In fact, from the government we have identified five, we could say: one is the 5G, which we have already talked about; the other is the blockchain; the other refers to the use of data, so supercomputation, big data; the other technology that will also be determining will be that which refers to quantum technologies, at least one part, in the digital field; but also, above all, as you mentioned, is that of artificial intelligence. Miri, artificial intelligence at these times is still at an early stage in its development, but it can begin to prepare the research and innovation ecosystem in our country and, therefore, also for what it does to business attraction. It is also worth saying that this Parliament will have a very important responsibility and, therefore, I also place Members and Members who in their own years will have to reform laws, and therefore also to legislate on the impact of these digital technologies and, therefore, also have a very important responsibility, which I believe should also be highlighted. As also the ethical and humanistic fact of what they mean and mean the impact of these technologies. To build an ecosystem, you can set some examples. We already have Catalonia for example... UPC has already created an artificial intelligence research center, just a few months ago, and concretely my trip to Japan last week was precisely to capture a very important investment of Japan's most important ICT enterprise, NTT Data, which has the will to install in our country, in the proper months, a center of excellence in artificial intelligence. This is working for our country's ecosystem, this is working for advanced digital technologies and to make our country a future country in this digital environment. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.61.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about budgetary policy]] [[310-00145/12]] The next question is about budgetary policy. The question is raised, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà, by Mrs Raquel Sans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.62.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Vice President of the Generality, Mr Aragones, this week the Government has passed a decree law for the supplement of credit in order to be able to face the situation of presuppositional extension. A situation of extension that makes the last premise approved follow the 2017 one and that, therefore, the limit of expenditure follows the 2017 one, despite the fact that the government has more resources. In this context, we must not forget that it is this Parliament where the Generality's assumptions are to be approved, and that, therefore, it is this Parliament that must authorize the Government of the Generality to spend certain resources. To this situation we have to add the delay in updating the financial model beasts by the Ministry of Hisenda. It is to say, that the State gives to Catalonia, and thus it has recognized Minister Montero, 1,400_million euros, who correspond to us for the updating of the beasts respect to 2018, and it must be taken into account thus, and so we have heard it several times, that the expenses of 2017 are not the same as those of 2019. The increase in the salaries of public workers, the increase in the number of teachers, teachers, firefighters, or the approval of the guaranteed income of citizens, in order to give some examples, have led to an increase in expenditure, and this has led to deficiencies amounting to 1,265_million euros. That is to say, that now 1,265_million euros will have to be paid that 2017 would not have to be paid. To face this misadjustment, to continue to rule, to be able to attend to and give response to the social needs of the country, the needs of the welfare state, without waiting for the always promised money of the State, cannot put up with the country. That is why we understand that, in an exercise of responsibility and compromise with people, the Government is promoting two economic measures: of one band, the supplement of creed we say, approved in the last Council execution, and of the other a contingency plan, which, for what we know, and in the same line as the assumptions, will give priority to areas of teaching, health, work and social welfare, emergence and security. In this sense, and bearing in mind that there is no presupposition for this 2019– that, it is worth remembering, it provides for the allocation of three_of_four euros to the Departments of Education, Health and Social Affairs and Families, so that it provides for the allocation of three_of_four euros to social expenditure – in this context, Mr. Aragonès, we would like to see more details on these measures that are driving your department to be able to cope with this increase in expenditure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.63.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the words of the Vice President of the Government, Mr. Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.64.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Member, as you rightly said, the presumption that is applying to the Government of Catalonia is the initial presumption of 2017. Obviously, we are in the year 2019, they have needed it, the country has advanced and the difficulty, which is obvious and that we recognize, because there is a majority support in this Parliament for the processing of assumptions, so for the moment we keep ourselves in for the presupposition. But this standstill in the handling of the new assumptions for the year 2019 does not suppose a standstill either of the Government or of the needy of the country. For this reason, the Government yesterday approved a decree on a supplement of credit, in the assumptions of the Generality, is to say, to expand the parties of the assumptions currently in force to the value of 813,9_million euros. What are we going to do with them? So, basically three concepts. The first, to guarantee the purchasing power of public workers in this country, is to say, the purchasing power of doctors, nurses, teachers, movers, firefighters, workers in the field of Administration, so that wages are adjusted to the standard of living and, therefore, with the pay increases that are granted. Second place, therefore, to the compliment of a return government commitment, during this year 2019, of the 40_per_cent of the extra pay of the year 2013. There was a 10-per-cent return this March. Now, then, in the second semester of the year, there will be the return of the remaining 30_per_cent. It is a debt that the Government of Catalonia has with public workers and, therefore, we pay the debts, we fulfill our commitments. I, the third, therefore, obviously to cover the need to deal with the expenses arising from the contracting of us teachers and of us professionals throughout the Administration, but mainly in the health field, which have been produced in the later courses and also during this year, in order to deal with the emergency situations and the need for this Parliament to raise them. Therefore, it is a government decision to ensure that the provision of public services, despite the presuppositional prorogation, is maintained, improved, and we defend the Catalan state of welfare. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.65.0	Thank you very much. [[Ask the Government about the guaranteed income commission]] [[310-00146/12]] The next question is about the commission of guaranteed income, question posed, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà, by Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.66.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Counselor, the approval of the Law of guaranteed citizenship income was the product of a great political effort, an effort, from the street to the Parliament, during the mandate of the Constellera Bassa, to whom we once again claim and to whom we send a very strong hug lila and groga, as she likes. The councillor wrote in an article published on September 15, 2017 the following: "So, on May 15, we were able to sign the agreement for a guaranteed income of citizenship, between the government and representatives of the popular legislative initiative. Thanks to the effort and shared willingness of all parties, and in particular to the firmness of signatures and the tenacity of many people, last July 12, the Law of Guaranteed Citizenship Income was approved in Parliament with the vote in favour of all parliamentary groups. This law allows us to create a great new social right and establish a paradigm shift in the social protection system, to abandon careism and become an instrument of individual empowerment. One of the main objectives of guaranteed citizenship income is that the person must complete a process of personal development and enrichment of his or her skills, in order to participate actively in society. And it is for this reason that we believe in the right to income and the right to work, because the best social policy against social exclusion is to provide tools that boost labour inclusion. These words mark our way, counselor, these shared words for this parliamentary group and also for many Members of this Parliament. But 2017 also imposed 155 on us, and now, in the current government, it is you, Councillor El Homrani, who was the rapporteur of the law, and who is to assume the delegation. The expectations about the law are very high, and I need to ask all the agents to move forward and complete the compliment of the objectives. And an essential step was given yesterday, when the government commission was created, as provided for in Article 23 of this Law. He's working hard, from the government, he's moving forward, and the truth is, he's walking slowly, and he can show it and he can show it. There was an increase of 92_per_cent in respect of the previously covered population with minimum input income. And, therefore, we want to ask you, Counselor, to answer the following question: what value does it make of the creation of the government commission and what will its functions be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.67.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the advisor of Work, Afers Socials and Families, Lord Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.68.0	Thank you, President, Members, Members. Member, the creation of the governing committee comes from one of the fundamental aspects that the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families understands and that this government, which is the need for the generation of shared governance spaces with all social, economic and local fabric. It forms part of that DNA from the concertation and creation of these governance spaces. This is why the approval of this council of government is key, where there will be a cross-cutting participation, with no waterfalls, on the part of various departments of the government, where there will be the participation of the unions, of the business organizations, of entities of the third sector, of the Social Work Colleges and of the municipalist entities, giving a perspective of joint governance around the whole development of the guaranteed income of citizens. I think it's very important that we generate these spaces, I think it's part of our way of hearing politics, and I think it's good news that we finally have this board of government. What's your paper gonna be? Its role will be very key in four areas: the follow-up and evaluation of the application and the functioning of guaranteed income, in a joint manner, between all; according to the aspect, analyze the evolution of the shippers, the behavior of the demand and the effects on the labor market. It was one of the most important debates that we had in the context of the rule of law, which makes a double answer: one, giving response to all citizens who are in a vulnerable situation and, at times, taking into account how it impacts on the world of work, how it impacts on collective bargaining, how it impacts on working conditions. This is one of the key aspects with which we stayed, and we believe this commission and agreed this commission basically for this paper. And here we need a global view of everyone. Third element: assess coverage tax and economic sufficiency. We're close to doing this, we're close to this assessment. There has been a change since I took possession of it, which we found to be that 9 percent of the shippers complete the requirements, at the moment, that it is already a 30; we are proceeding with the other decree necessary to have a good mark for the resolutions, which is the regulation of the rent. But this capacity for this assessment of coverage and economic sufficiency is key, and that is why we have to do it in a shared way. And last but not least, because it's very tied to empowerment, it's very linked to the ability to get out of the vulnerability situation: the territorial coordination tables. How we work all the projects with people in the center to take them and why they emerge from the situation of vulnerability. That's good news, and I think we might be happy with that approval. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.69.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the priority of the Government of the transversal railway axis in place of the Mediterranean Corridor]] [[317-00082/12]] Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. The first question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.70.0	Thank you, President. Why has nationalism in Catalonia historically prioritized the so - called transversal railway eix, systematically discarding the Mediterranean Corridor? Thank you. [[Remove from the background.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.71.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.72.0	Good morning. Well, honourable Member, in view of the hemicicle's exclamations, I don't seem to be able to answer it in any other way: that's all the contrary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.73.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.74.0	I'll show you right away I won't. Look, I asked him simple questions, not very technical, in these last plenary sessions: I asked him about tolls in the previous one, and he gave a surrealist answer; I once asked him about funding, exactly the same; today about the runner, because he did not know exactly what to comment. I am not going to deny what is yours: I know that you have extensive knowledge about the journalistic chronicles of the twenties and thirties of the last century in Catalonia – an exciting topic without a doubt – but you lack the most elementary knowledge about how a modern public administration is managed. I told him on one occasion: return to his literary outreach activities; he will be happy again and the torments that happen in all the control sessions will be saved. Why has Catalan nationalism never set its sights on the Mediterranean Corridor? Look, neither in the infrastructure plans, when it was agreed with Felipe González, nor with Aznar or Zapatero: they always prioritized, in their plans, what they called the « transversal railway eix, which had to give service to Iberpotash, which had to give service to the polygons of the Baix Llobregat, every time the industrial polygon of Tarragona already had a powerful internal railway system. But there was a fundamental reason why they never bet on the Mediterranean Corridor, and it was that the Valencians asked for it. And you didn't want the goods up from Valencia. (Whispering) And so it is, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.75.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.76.0	That's why they never included it. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Everything changes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.77.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.78.0	... everything changes, and that is the case – and that is the case – in 2012, because you wanted protectionism, only to be able to move the goods within Catalonia. It changes in 2012, and changes in 2012 because you take out the theory of aggravation. And with the theory of the aggravation what you end up saying is that there is a problem of financing, that there is a problem of infrastructures, when in fact... Let's see if you have historically boycotted the Mediterranean Corridor that the only thing or of the few sensibles that the tripartite government had in Catalonia, for seven years, was a good territorial policy, a good planning that you couldn't execute – that did include the Mediterranean Corridor. The first thing he does in the year 2010 Artur Mas is to load it. Therefore, if we are absolutely rigorous, you are mounting on fallacies your political strategy of aggravation. They've never bet on a toll-free Catalonia, they've never bet on the Mediterranean corridor, and they've never bet on a tax pact that would break the fish-to-fish theory.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.79.0	Congressman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.80.0	...that was what he liked to do to Mr. Pujol. They've built on lies... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.81.0	To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.82.0	Yes, honourable Member, God is guarding us – but God is guarding us – than you ever govern this country. God save us! [[Greetings.]] God save us. Of all the ways, I am not concerned: you are already four Members, in view of the programme that probably stand at zero... In fact, today we should almost make a hug and welcome each other, because you will disappear from this hemicicle at your own Catalan elections. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] With the speech that you have just shown your absolute – absolute –..., the absolute ignorance of what this government and the previous governments of Catalonia have been defending.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.83.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.84.0	We bring claiming the Mediterranean Corridor from the first moment; escorti'm: from the first moment. It's been 20 years since we proclaimed that we need the Mediterranean Corridor..., [[see ‘no'.]] and as long as it is – and as long as it is – because it is one of the basic infrastructures. And not just this government: civil society, business society. Remember all those acts that were done to ESADE claiming the Mediterranean Corridor. The government was there, because it is at the expense of entrepreneurs, businesses, who know that without this Mediterranean Corridor our business opportunities are very – very – limited. Miri, I do a_me– approximately, counselor–..., we visited the port of Tarragona. The port of Tarragona has already built the branch that it gives to the Mediterranean Corridor, but there is not, the Mediterranean Corridor. Do you know how many millions of contents pass before the port of Tarragona? Two million contents pass before the port of Tarragona that could stay in the port of Tarragona if the Mediterranean Corridor is built and done. And they already have the branch, but once and for all the different governments of the Spanish State have preferred to look at the other side – look at the other side – and precisely not push the Mediterranean Corridor. It seems to me that, in fact, after this exercise of absolute unconsciousness..., let me tell you that what this country really wants..., this country, for which it has been struggling, which has meant the systemic incompliments of the State..., demonstrates an absolute unawareness of the Catalan situation. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.85.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the inaction of the Government and the possible call of elections to the Parliament of Catalonia in 2019]] [[317-00083/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Ms.Jéssica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.86.0	Yes, good morning, President. Will you call elections in guany? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.87.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.88.0	Madam Member, we have been very clear: we will not call elections, we have the majority enough to push our government agenda forward, among other things, because if you do not govern and govern, and we want to govern. We have 49 percent of the support of this chamber, of the deputies representing the majority, and if you think that you can have another majority alternative, if you think that you can make this government president another member of the opposition, I suggest, therefore, that I speak with them, form this coalition– Common, Citizens, PP, for example, right? – and present an alternate candidate. We have a plan that we want to accomplish, we are working with all the rigour and professionalism to get it forward; it would be a very serious irresponsibility at this time for Catalonia to set itself elections, and we want to be a responsible and ruling government. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.89.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.90.0	Yeah. President, what is irresponsible is trying to be a government, not to believe that one is a government, and more not to rule. That's why we're asking you to call elections. He knows that we asked him weeks ago to present a question of trust, you do as if what happens in this Parliament did not happen to you, and now we must insist that please present an election. Why can you tell us how the life of Catalonia's citizens has improved since you were in the government – how has it improved? Do you think Catalonia has progressed socially, or nationally? Because the photos are very good, but then public policies have to be made. It is no longer possible to remunerate, three or four months ago, the mobilizations of the late heat to see the disgust of the citizenry before its paralysis for the degradation of public services and its disorientation in the national theme – it cannot go to the late heat. We're looking at the news just last week. The first: the third sector donated an alert because social services are in a desperate situation. The second: the waiting lists of public health have disappeared since you were in the government. The third is that half a hundred experts come together to denounce this government's lack of action in the fight against climate change. Not to mention, that has already been talked about, as the Mosses denouncing a family with minors in Manresa and with violence. And they're just the examples of a week alone. And you tell me you don't want to call elections. Do you think that this is to advance Catalonia, when people of different backgrounds, different backgrounds, when all the opposition agrees that this government does not govern, that it does not have a country plan, that we do not give solutions to the citizenry? The problem of Catalonia is not us; clearly the problem of Catalonia is you, and precisely because of the exceptional situation that Catalonia is living now more than ever needing clarity, needing governance and needing a strong government, which is what you are not doing. The summary of his legislature is: inaction on the social issue, gangs on the national issue and gesticulation, yes: gesticulation that does not lack, that does not lack a_second. And while Catalonia is stuck, it's blocked, and because they haven't been able to pull any assumptions that so much Catalonia needs. Miri, it's no mystery that this government has the count of days. And now he doesn't come to us with promises of the social dimarts, which are supposed to be invented so as not to say they've been copied. They've had a year to do a lot of things, and they've done nothing, so please call for elections, because Catalonia is in a hurry to move forward, to weave alliances, and to win rights and democracy. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.91.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.92.0	Well, Congresswoman, excuse me, huh? , but by inaction – by inaction – that of the Barcelona Assembly; by disapproval, that of the Mayor of Barcelona. It has been reproved seven times, historical record: no mayor of Barcelona has ever been reproved on many occasions for inaction, for his housing policy, ultimately for his government program. Here the data are these: seven times the Ple de l'Ajuntament de Barcelona failed its mayor. And to me, look, I'd love to have the banner theme, for example, on the other side of Sant Jaume Square there was the same firmness that there was on the side of the square. [[Greetings.]] The same firm one. That the rights are defended – the rights are defended – and the freedoms are defended. The rights are not a permit to be granted to you. The right to self-determination is not a concession to self-determination: the right to self-determination is a right, and defenses. And the right to freedom of expression is a right, and the defenses, honourable Member. Therefore, I would ask the common for this point of courage that there has been, that there has not been, that it has always been... We have been the hand how many times, honourable Member, to approve these assumptions? How many times have we met with you? How many times have we put as a priority to bring these assumptions forward? You did not want to accept any of our proposals. But we didn't give up governing – we didn't give up governing – out of responsibility. Because we have a plan of government, because we have voters asking us to govern, and we will follow it: with these presuppositional prorogations...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.93.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.94.0	...with the contingency plan; we will continue to do so. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.95.0	Thank you. [[Asks the President of the Generalitat about the reduction of foreign investment in Catalonia, the causes and measures to capture the negative trend]] [[317-00081/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.96.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Very honorable President of the Generalitat, we have recently known the foreign investment data to Catalonia, which continue to indicate a very significant reduction since 2017, in contrast to the remarkable increase of foreign investment in the conjunct of Spain. What value do these data deserve from the government? Who do you think the causes are? And what are you going to do to understand this negative trend?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.97.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.98.0	So now I'm going to answer it, Mr. Member, with data – with data – that you know that foreign investment can see it in long periods, can see it in periods of five years, and if you want, then, now, when your exposure ends, I'm going to answer it because we believe that Catalonia continues to feel a country of attraction of foreign investment, and, in the last few years, more than ever.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.99.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.100.0	Thank you, Mr. President. I will look forward to your response, but the foreign investment in Catalonia the year 2016 was 8,273,9_million euros; the year 2017 was 3,382,7_million euros, and the year 2018, 2,985,6_million euros. We are now in figures similar to those of 2012, more than these five years than you say we should have, look. While in Spain foreign investment has increased by 70_per_cent, in Catalonia it has decreased by 11_per_cent. And we, president, believe that we can't keep paging the head under the wing. It is obvious that there are no concrete economic causes of Catalonia that are behind or can explain this davalada. In fact, the structure of the country, its economy, its dynamism, is propitious to capture foreign investments, but in change it has not happened: we are going backwards than we should be going. From our point of view, there are two reasons to explain this davalada, which have a negative impact on the country's economic growth potential. One is the political uncertainty of the process and its own decision on the government's margin, and the other is the concrete management. For example, President: many of you have warned of the government's lack of commitment to the Pact. We also know who the government's priorities are to capture new investments and boost sector-to-sector economic activity. Moreover, we want to point out the fact that 75 per cent of the foreign investment in Catalonia is concentrated in Barcelona and its metropolitan area, and therefore we believe that it would be a good idea for territorial rebalancing criteria to form part of the government's strategy to capture investments. With my question, however, President, I do not want to raise an element of criticism, but to know whether the Government is quite conscious, whether it has thought to do something about it, whether it intends to call upon the groups of the chamber to collaborate on this question so relevant to the future of the country. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.101.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.102.0	Yes, thank you very much. If we analyze foreign investment, for example, in industry, it has remained stable at 0.2_per_cent, up to 1.187_million euros, and already concentrates 15_per_cent of the State. For what it does to the manufacturing industry, foreign investment has increased by 2.1_per_cent, to 1.185_million euros, and concentrates 30_per_cent of state investment. Certainly; if we look at this exercise on time, the foreign reversal is the cause. I'm also in the Basque Country, Balears, Valencia. And where does it increase, curiously? In Madrid; for the capitalist effect, which is as always also. Catalonia is maintained as a second investor, after Madrid, the quarter-by-quarter records an upward line. I would like to remind you not only of the Financial Times, when they continue to say for the second year that Catalonia is the region of Europe where it is most attractive and where it is most recommended to be reversed. And that's what he does because he knows this trend perfectly, he knows that direct reversal flows are volatile and that he can compare five-year averages. The foreign, productive, gross investment in Catalonia, in the period 2014-2018, which has been of 4,639_millions, has increased by more than 45_per_cent than the midjana 2009-2013. These are the five-year-olds you can analyze. And, indeed, state data, as I said before, are distorted by the capitalist effect. Precisely because of this we want the Catalan republic and that Barcelona is the capital of the republic, so as not to have – not to have – precisely these distortions. If Abertis hadn't transferred his company to Madrid in 2017, 14,000_million euros would have been calculated in Catalonia, for example, huh? And, therefore, we must also take into account this perverse effect of the flight of their corporate socials, which, at the time of quantifying the numbers, give these results. Therefore, the effect has been neutral in real terms but has distorted the statistics. The real bad news is that with the purchase of Abertis one of the Catalan hand-holding companies that works at IBEX 35 has been lost. That's the bad news.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.103.0	President, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.104.0	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.105.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality about the freedom of expression, the struggle for the rights and freedoms and the sovereignty of Parliament]] [[317-00085/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.106.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, President. We'll take each other in the morning and ask ourselves if it'll happen again. We're wondering if there's gonna be another one. We ask ourselves whether today they will again forbid us to say, to believe or to debate something, to forbid us any new colour, to forbid us any word. This has been going on for months, but it's also true that in the last few hours we've been packed together. The state's veto collection has been very long for this country's citizenry, and unfortunately, so far as the Spanish government is concerned. The vetoes affect the lives of Catalans, their political rights, but also social rights; they have affected laws on energy or housing. They don't just refuse to vote and decide on our future policy; now they're emptying the colors and emptying the words. And it's just as absurd as it is. For as much as small, as much as they try to restrict our freedom of speech, things will not change. No matter how much they ban, threaten or impresson, ideas don't fade away. Who votes for self-determination, who fights for the republic, who rains the hole in the lap, who hangs the domain of Omnium at the balcony, will keep his fight for the freedom of prisoners and political prisoners and will continue to denounce injustice. If our mobilization bothers them, freeing the hostages, and we are in a political table, let's go back to politics, to politics, and let's go to the place where we have to do it: to the polls. All our support, President, before an unjustified complaint that again questions and subjectes the freedom of expression. He's got us on his side in his fight for rights and freedoms. And we do not want to forget the absurdity of limiting the debates to Parliament. Sovereignty is talking about everything and always doing it the way Carme Forcadell flagged it. She is in prison to defend the word; in fact, the words that some are forbidden. We want a parliament where we talk about everything, we want public media free of coercion and restrictions, we want a Catalan school that I talk about everything, a country where ideas, words, debates or colors are not censored. And we're wondering if it's gonna happen again. We're wondering if we're gonna find another one today. We ask ourselves if they will again forbid us to say, do or debate anything. We ask ourselves, President, if so much prohibition does not simply seek to ban us. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.107.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.108.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Congressman. I think it's a reflection that we have to do in this house above all, isn't it? In this house, which is the temple of the word precisely, which is the temple of the dialect, of the agreement, of the negotiation, of political iron, and therefore all the projects that arrive in this Parliament should be, all of them, discussed. And, therefore, democracy, which we represent, the voice of the people, which we represent the whole Chamber, should know how to find here in Parliament the ways with which it is concrete, and not – and not – as the President of the Supreme Spanish Court said, that the State of Spanish law is founded in the indissoluble unity of the country. No, we want to use the state of Catalan law, of the Catalan Republic, in democracy, in the vote of its citizens, which is how to express itself. And, actually, you were planting and you wanted to... And today, perhaps more than ever, we must also remember what has happened in this Parliament. And in this Parliament there were four investitures that could not be pulled forward. Members' rights have been violated; their legitimate actions have been suspected. We were playing funds, if you'll allow me, as in parliament, the day that candidate Jordi Turull was engaged in the investiture debate. And that embarrasses us all. We must all be ashamed of ourselves. And I'm so sorry that people aren't ashamed of this fact, honestly. I think we should be absolutely ashamed of all of us, like Members of this chamber. I think it was a time when all the folds, surely, were not able to see the historical moment and stand up. Xavier Domènech commented on it the other day, and I completely agree. Therefore, this chamber must be free. This chamber is not so sovereign. This chamber is where the freedom of expression of the word we need to feel more vividly the deputies and deputies, and we need to defend it above all else. If they shut us up, who's next? Effectively. And so, above all, Members and Members, I make you, all of you, a cry that defends freedom of speech, of opinion. This Parliament is inviolable. Tell and discuss what you think you need to debate and dialogue. Fired it. He did it all the time. He felt you free. No, maybe, like at some point we've felt ourselves and all of us self-censored, no. This people don't want to live with us because, this Parliament doesn't have to live with us because...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.109.0	President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.110.0	...and we don't live with it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.111.0	The next question... [[Ask the President of the Generality about the new episodes of judicial persecution against independenceists and possible solutions to put up with them]] [[317-00084/12]] ...the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Laura Borràs MP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.112.0	Good morning, President. In a new chapter of this series of terror that is the trial against independence, we have now learned that the prosecution is calling for new voters to refer to the first of October to be prosecuted for resistance to the police. Narratively, this measure does not pass a comparison test. But it is a completely irregular strategy from a legal point of view, because we are talking about new people who denounced attacks by the Spanish police in the violent intervention against an electoral college. It is very worrying that the organs of justice make use of the mechanisms that they have with this blatant partiality. It is a case more than many, of the mass cases, that we have seen these last years of the use of a judiciary that should be in the service of the citizens but that in change favors a certain political cause, that of the indissoluble unit of the Kingdom of Spain. In cases such as this one now occupies, we see how the democratic quality of the Spanish State crumbles into forced marches. And we are not satisfied; first, because we suffer in the first person, and, second, because for Spain, as for any country in the world, we want a democracy in good form, a democracy in the service of the citizens, and the backwardness respects the human rights, civil rights and political rights of the Spanish State has already blown up the warnings of a few states and also their public opinions. The case that should make the rulers think more about is that of the French senators who have demanded justice for political prisoners and exiles and who want a solution to the democratic conflict between the people of Catalonia and the Kingdom of Spain, but it is not the only case, and every time it is more, these cases. You were notified yesterday of a complaint for defending freedom of expression. The repressive madness of the Spanish State seems to have no soreness. President, what is your position and that of our government on this new episode of judicial persecution against the independenceists and what solution can there be for a repression that does not cease and that seems to be served by the letter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.113.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.114.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I have to admit that you'll be surprised to see you safe, to you – and to Councilwoman Artadi – therefore, to the bench of the deputies. I hope that someday our paths will go back to getting stuck, and that it will be soon, and we can go back to working together. Certainly, I filed this complaint yesterday for disobedience. And the first thing I have to answer to you is that you seem to be lying like all those parliamentary groups that worry you about people saying they're worried about you... you see that, no, the only one that really concerns you is the monotheme, and therefore, judicializing Catalan politics continues to be their goal. And we're still ruling. In these forty-four hours we have approved..., and I think we have to congratulate ourselves that all groups of this chamber are pulling out of the agreement for immigration and against racism and xenophobia, I think it was a great deal of agreement, and I want to thank all groups of this chamber. We approved the decree on urgent measures to bring forward the commitments we have entered into with the Catalan public service. But not just that. Yesterday late, too, the new Councillor of Culture closes an agreement that you worked to launch the Pla de Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya. Or the Saluting Councillor working with the Treball Councillor, too, avoided a new wave, the wave at the concert. This government works twenty-four hours a day to pull this country forward. While some political fans from justice, others look to bring justice to politics. And, therefore, we must always denounce any of these aberrations with which the State is trying to provoke us. It was not only the prosecutor's office; I would like to recall that it was the Advocate of the State – the Advocate of the State – that it is an organ that directly reports to the Government; therefore, the Socialist Government – the Socialist Government – orders the Advocate of the State to impute to the citizens that they were voting. That thing seems to me to be serious. And I would ask the Socialist Party to denounce this – denounce it – because to blame, already, citizens who were voting seems to me that it is already the last that we can sincerely expect all of our prayers. And we have to report it. The General will be at your side. The Generality is, as you know, presented in that procedure as a particular accusation. And, therefore, we will always be on the side of the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.115.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat whether he believes that the Government has prioritized public resources to solve the problems of Catalans]] [[317-00080/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.116.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Torra, do you believe that your Government and the previous governments of the Generalitat have properly prioritized public resources to solve the social problems of Catalans?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.117.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.118.0	Yes, President. Yes, honourable Member, the answer is yes. And I feel very proud.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.119.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.120.0	You really think they're cheating on someone, Mr. Torra? I believe that every time you deceive fewer people, even your own, that many times you even have to face them and have to beg them please do not attack you. Look, you pass the social needs of Catalans. And the reality is, it's very clear. And with you the sanitary waiting lists have been fired, with you we have the worst waiting lists of dependence from all of Spain, with you Catalonia is the autonomous community with more barracks. And, for example, the courts, like Martorell's, fall to pieces. But then you do have money to do a lot of things. Look, you're spending hundreds of millions of euros on separatist propaganda. You do find money to plug in your friends. Look, one of your friends has been paid a salary of EUR 112,000 per year– EUR 112,000 per year – Mr. Torra. And we have, of course, the most expensive televisions in all of Spain. Aren't you ashamed, Mr. Torra? When you answer me, don't answer me, but answer to the Catalan families. What do you tell families who have been waiting for years for a family member to have a place of residence? What do you tell families who have been waiting for an operation for months? But at the same time, these families see how you keep squandering millions of dollars in the process. What do they say, hold on? , that with magical independence all problems would be solved? That Spain is stealing from us? Because many Catalans do see how some of us have been robbed, like the corrupt like Oriol Pujol, that you have given yourself a lot of haste to grant you the third degree and that you are already in your home with the Pujol family. Look, you're a black hole through which millions of euros disappear for your separatist obsession. You pass from what Catalans need, but it is that you also have the defachability to pass from what the judges say. You've had a crush on the PP and PSOE governments, but I think you're realizing, Mr. Torra, that cheating judges isn't as easy as cheating Rajoy or Sanchez. Accept it: you are a social failure, but even on your favorite theme also for yours. Don't waste us any more time. In Citizens we will continue to fight to change you for a government that guarantees coexistence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.121.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.122.0	...that respects everyone's rights and prioritizes the... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.123.0	Thank you. To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.124.0	Yes, thank you. I wonder if we care little about social policies, that in the forty-eight hours we have only made social policies. That is to say, we get an agreement on migration and against racism and xenophobia, a very important agreement – now I want to focus on this issue – and then we get to bring forward, therefore, a decree law in order to be able to satisfy the legitimate claims of our public servants. I already know that you are thinking only in Madrid and that you are continuing to pursue your policy of severance, of discord, of trying to break social cohesion; but for this reason I want to put into value an unprecedented fact: the agreement that we have signed all of these papers. And let me remind you of some of the commitments we made among all of us, because I think they're important. In the first place, they send messages about immigration that they give to the citizenry to know the benefits of immigration. Secondly, address the same speech about immigration to all publics, whatever their place of origin is. The third, the third speaks of values. The fourth, the fourth talk about available data. Five speaks of responsibility and sending messages of solutions. The set speaks of a better knowledge of our society. On the eighth, avoid and denounce speeches that incite the step of latent racism to acts of racism. I should be grateful if you would have used these words during all these months that we have shared with this chamber: « to give tools, « values, « to discuss data, « responsibility for solutions, « better knowledge of our society, « to avoid and denounce speeches that incite the step of latent racism to acts of racism. I think politics has to be done this way, I think politics without values has no value, it's worth redundancy. And, therefore, the policy that you, therefore, intend to pull forward I hope that you will change, I hope that you will change now that you leave us, and I hope that those of us responsible for Ciutadans, the Ciutadans Group, will be much more at the expense of these country agreements, of these agreements that are cohering with society, that are of interest to us, that is the most precious value that we have for Catalans, and not all these speeches that you have addressed to us during all these months. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.125.0	Thank you, President. [[Comparison of the President of the Generality to account for the change in the composition of the Government]] [[350-00008/12]] After the control session, let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the appearance of the President of the Generality before the plenary to account for the change in the composition of the Government. In accordance with Rule 172 of the Rules of Procedure, and insofar as the President of the Generality has requested to appear before the plenary to account for the change in the composition of the Government, the President of the Generality, the very honourable Mr Quim Torra and Pla, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.126.0	President, Members and Members of Parliament, the public, appear once again on their own motion in compliment of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality, 13/2008, which in its Article 23.3 says that the President must appear before Parliament to account for the structure and composition of the Government to be constituted, and also for subsequent amendments. And that's the obvious and well-known word I'm showing up for today. Last week the Palau de la Generalitat was made the act of taking possession of two new councillors, the honorable Meritxell Budó and the honorable Maria Àngela Vilallonga, in charge of chairing, respectively, the departments of Presidency and Culture. As you all know, I have already proceeded with the cessation of Councillors Elsa Artadi and Laura Borràs, who have taken the compromise and the challenge of being candidates for the elections to be held in the coming months. We understand, as it cannot be otherwise, that the responsibility of government must be preserved from the electoral dispute. After consulting the councillors who occupied these responsibilities before the coup to the democracy of 155, the honorable Jordi Turull and Lluís Puig, as well as the councillors who left their responsibility to the government, I considered that Meritxell Budó and Maria Ángela Vilallonga were the people best suited to occupy these places at the executive council of the government. In the case we are dealing with today, the changes that have occurred are very easy to explain. There is no competitive reordering between departments or no modification of structures. We haven't created any new organisms, nor have we suppressed any. Similarly, the policies of the departments marked by the former councillors are maintained, and will continue to execute what was approved in the government plan. We are talking, therefore, further, about the people who will take up new responsibilities to the government and the priorities that have been identified at the Councils of Presidency and Culture. But before you let me value and thank the task of Artadi and Borrás advisors. As I expressed earlier in the act of the takeover of the nine councillors, Constellera Artadi, the face and the government's voice, was a key piece in order to make the gears of this institutional building work. For me, personally, it has been an indispensable support, with whom an unbeatable joy has been established. As everyone knows, it hasn't been easy, easy or easy. The situation that we live in, with fellow prisoners and exiles, makes the political experience today a harsh emotional experience that we have not experienced in Catalonia for many years. Serenity and normality have not been part of Catalan politics for a long time, because of a completely entrepreneurship repression in a European state of the 21st century. And, despite everything, the government has ruled since the first day, has solved very complicated situations, has turned against the current and has pushed new initiatives with an objective always to the point of view: the better quality of life of the citizens, the well-being of this country, that we want opportunities for all. And to all this counsel and spokesman Artadi has been so busy managing the matters of his competence as to communicate the action of the government with perseverance and uncertainty. Thank you very much, Counselor. For her band, it's known that Councilwoman Laura Borràs brings culture to the veins, to the color, to the head, to the hair, to the tongue, to the tips of the sayings, and often makes us wonder. And it's obvious that this passage was noticed and entrusted to the government and beyond. This chamber is not an obvious witness; we still remember that Don Quixote glorious. Erràs has shown a surprising ability to be at all times, at the same time, and always with the battery charged to the cent_per_cent. To the head of Culture, the councilwoman has fought with no one to give centrality to cultural politics, also in the land of presupposition, and in gift of faith. We have celebrated for the first time a monographic council of cultural policies, and with it the project of the Cultural Community, which wants to establish synergies of collaboration with the cultural policies of the main Catalan institutions, has also been launched. For the first time in this country, the cultural policies of the Generality and of the four deputies will be able to coordinate. In this sense, I felt strongly accompanied by her in this desire that you all know that we are moving, of basing the project of the Catalan Republic on the foundations of talent, culture and freedom. As I said, however, we are talking about the advisers who have come to the government and the priorities of the next few months; two women of contrasted trajectory who helped us consolidate a government with constant challenges – you have already seen, counselors, today itself – and with many gains in working and serving the citizenry. Councilwoman Budó, a pharmaceutical professional, has been mayor of Garriga these past eight years, has also presided over the Catalan Cooperation Fund and has been vice president of the Barcelona City Council, an experience that will undoubtedly be a very positive mix for the task you will be doing to the Government. Because this is a government that wants to manage well day by day, that wants to solve the concrete problems of the country, that is involved in the solutions to every conflict that occurs – it remembered before with the councilwoman of Salut the vagueness that today would have begun if you had not been, therefore, for its effort to avoid it. But also a government that wants to look at the clock and that wants to think much more beyond today. It is a government that has more interest in solving the problems and conflicts of a society like Catalan the year 2019 than not to make spectacles, or to put on medals, or to make great impression campaigns. Some are dedicated, especially now that elections are held, to repeating the mantra that the government does not govern, that leaves aside social policies, etc. Well, you all know, for the work you do here in Parliament, for which we explain to you from the government, that this is not true. But think that repeating the message one time and another will end up staring, this image of the government. Indebtedness. The data are clear and, even though we always take away dangerous triumphalism, they give us reason. Maria Àngela Vilallonga, PhD in Classical Philology, Cultural Counsellor, is a person of letters, thought, rigor and compromise with the country. Professor of Llatina Philology, she had since been appointed vice-president of the Catalan Institute of Studies, a historic institution of undisputed prestige, and had exercised various responsibilities. Councilwoman Vilallonga is now taking on a new and even greater responsibility and will be working to lead the Government's cultural policy. You know, and we talked about it: there's a lot of work to do, it's huge, and there's a lot of work to do. Also, the master lines of cultural policy have already been defined, and it has advanced a lot in these months of Constellera Borràs, but we must continue to persevere. We are a country of a magnificent, extraordinary cultural richness, and that the creators and industry have the support they need from the Administration. Language and culture, in a world of global consumption, have sometimes added difficulties, but they also have new opportunities. That we know how to take advantage of them collectively and that we come out reinforced from this period of profound changes and transformations. This is your mission, Counselor. I would also like to come in now to briefly remind them of the priorities of each of the departments, starting with the Department of the Presidency. As you know, from the Office of the President, a new financing agreement has been launched with the Aran, from which these powers have been assumed, through the Secretary of Local Administration and Relations with the Aran. Proof of this compromise with the alien reality from a perspective of self-government and respect for the alien national rights was the meeting of the government that took place on March 11th in Old to fill in the uniqueness of the Aran and the agreement for the new financing of the General Council. The objective of the new financing system is that the Vall d'Aran, through its General Council of Aran, has sufficient resources to have management autonomy to develop its functions effectively and effectively and to advance in its own self-government. Another relevant activity was the second Feder fund call, for an import of 37,2_million euros, axes on energy transition, low carbon economy and six related to valorization and natural and cultural heritage. It is working on the recovery of PUOSC, with a duration of five years and for a value of 250_million euros, with up-to-date clause, depending on the government's presuppositional availability. And finally, a boost was given, together with the Directorate-General for Interdepartmental Coordination, to the incorporation into the memories of a standard impact assessment in the assemblies, depending on their size, which was approved at the 21st generation government session of this year. It also works intensively, through the General Secretary of Sport and Physical Activity, in the objectives of welfare and quality of life, because we want 7_million_i_mig of active citizens and citizens. That's why the government approved the name change of the General Secretary of Sport, so that you end physical activity as one of the axes to achieve a better salvation of our people through the promotion of physical activity. One of the most outstanding actions in this area is to promote consensus for a new law on sport and physical activity. On March 18, the Government, the Catalan sports federations promoting the ILP and the Union of Sports Federations of Catalonia signed an agreement in the first phase of negotiations for the popular legislative initiative for a new law of sport and physical activity, and will now incorporate all the rest of the sports sector of Catalonia. From now on, a working group will be set up to include items from different agents in the ILP sector, which will be the vehicle for the new law of sport and physical activity. Councilwoman Budó also takes on the task of setting aside the programme for the preparation of the nomination for the Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games, the Pirineus-Barcelona nomination of 2030. With the creation of this program, what is meant is to give the maximum transcendence to the assessment of this potential candidacy, take a step forward because if finally the government, together with the other administrations and the territory, decides to pull forward this candidacy of Olympic Winter Games, which is what we want..., get the nomination to have the best possible success. With the coordination of the Català de los Dones Institute, the Department of the Presidency will soon approve the Strategic Platform for Gender Equality Policies 2019-2022, which was developed on the basis of a participatory process where all entities, around four hundred, belonging to the National Council of Dones of Catalonia, were invited, all information services and attention to the gifts of local authorities, all the institutions members of the National Commission for a Coordinated Intervention against Masclist Violence, and also the specialized intervention services of the Service and Comprehensive Recovery Service for women found in situations of male violence. In this framework of the fight against male violence, the Government is finalizing the second Comprehensive Intervention Programme against Male Violence 2019-2022, which incorporates all the proposals made in the evaluation studies of the three years that have been entrusted to the Catalan Institute of Donations. The Department of Presidency also has the task and mission of vetting for the application of the Pla Director of Training in Gender Equity, to normalize the perspective of gender in public policies. One of the objectives is to form 25_% of the Generality's executive and command staff before 2020. In fact, there are many plans and actions planned in the framework of gender equality and against the masculinism that stands in the way of the Department of the Presidency, which you know perfectly well because you have been the object of multiple parliamentary initiatives. As the end point of one of the cross-cutting programmes that is on the way to the Presidency would like to highlight the compliment of the agreements of the Pact for the Hourly Reform with the aim of coordinating policies in the field of organization and the uses of the time of daily life. It deals with the Office of Hourly Reform, which will oversee the application of cross-cutting in planning, management and evaluation of departmental policies in its area of competence and will analyse government action in relation to policies related to hourly reform. There are also many objectives that are proposed to asolve the Department of Culture, with Constellera Vilallonga in the front. The main axes of the department are those that were defined in the Plan of Government of this legislature: to position culture as a basis of social cohesion, to promote the participation and enjoyment of culture throughout the territory of Catalonia and to give support to the cultural and creative ecosystem. Counsel, you have at your hands the deployment of the 2020 reading platform, which incorporates various programs of action that have already been presented previously. Another mission you have is to deepen the territorial networks of libraries, archives, theatres and other cultural and knowledge equipment, with obvious presuppositional difficulties. The Department of Culture is also proposed to contribute to the momentum of projects that prepare the great equipments such as the National Museum of Art of Catalonia, of which today the strategic plan for the own years is approved, and we welcome, or the expansion of the National Library of Catalonia, to put two examples, as well as the progressive recovery of the investment in the cultural sectors such as the audiovisual or the book. The equity of gender in all the professional spheres of culture, and thinking culture as a tool for equality is also a pocket of your department, and you have to settle down with fullness. I'm sure you'll continue your predecessor's pocket. We also need to bring the country up to date on new technologies in the field of culture. We refer to the digital library, the digitalization of archives, but also the nine expressions, like video art, to set an example. Obviously, the task needed – if you will allow me, more necessary than ever – for linguistic normalization, because language has been and is a decisive element for social cohesion, integration and progress of people in our country. In this sense, we celebrate that it has reached the highest xifra until now in the Program of Linguistic Parellas, with a hundred_thirty_thousand parellas, which contrasts with the twelve_thousand parellas of 2018. Everyone knows that this is a program that, beyond the language, is also an elevated factor of support and integration. Also, as it could not be in any other way, it is the work of the Department of Culture in promoting knowledge, dissemination and the use of the occità – the Aranes to the Aran – the run of the country, where it is official. This is a government that values and values rich linguistic, cultural, and does not see it as a danger, years against it, as a richness, and as a diversity, because they are always opportunities for growth for the citizens of our country. Among the department's performance programs for the next month there has also been the development of sign language, with the definition of knowledge levels and creating specific grant lines for its financing. Councilwoman Vilallonga also has an important task in one of the projects that I personally have more interest in, because she returns to the time of the Commonwealth too, she returns to us at a time when with many small media she was able to provide this country with a collection project and an important cultural project, which is the project of the Cultural Commonwealth with the four Catalan members. As Councillor Borràs explained when the presentation was made, it must enable us to improve the enjoyment of economic, material and human media by all the administrations that are part of it, and that any project or action by the Department of Culture and the members in the field of culture can be coordinated and financed jointly. That old dream of political catalanism to eliminate the deputies is beginning to come true. I also want to highlight a plan of action of the many that the department has on its way. I'm working on the Pla d'arxius and documentary management in Catalonia, which has already begun to deploy and which is instrumental in advancing towards a single integrated and dynamic system of arxius and taking advantage of resources from the territory. Counsel, you need to boost and consolidate the agreements signed with the national confederations of popular culture, the line of help to cultural and associated equipment, the accessibility plans to the equipment. Take care of the promotion and diffusion of stage and musical programming between youth and support for cinema and publishing, as well as the impulse of new musical talents in collaboration with communication media. As you can imagine, we could spend hours passing all the lines of action of the Department of Culture. I've made them the most important lines. In short, and I finish, this is a government that is very clear about the work it wants to do and is willing to do it, in the Presidency, in Culture, but in the rest of the councils. We live in uncertain moments and from an unusual harsh politics, but precisely because of this the compromise with the policies to serve the citizens is absolutely irrefutable for us. Councillors Budó and Vilallonga come into the government knowing that this is the central objective, an objective that you fully share: that we work for people, for the seven million futures of this country that are people living in this country, for welfare, for opportunities for everyone and for building a country that allows all citizens to fully realize their life plans. In short, a country more just, more solidarity and free. Thank you, honourable counselors, for your commitment. Thank you, honourable advisers, for your work, and many thanks to all of you for your attention. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.127.0	Thank you, President. The representatives of parliamentary groups will then speak for a maximum of two and five minutes each for the subgroups. It has the word in the first place the Inés Arrimadas, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Pause.]] I inform them that it is parliamentary tradition, if any group asks, to suspend the session briefly, but if they don't ask me... [[Pause.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.128.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Torra has to appear compelled. I remind you that there are seven appearances to which you have not wished to present yourself; Mr Toura has seven appearances requested by the opposition, but well, we are not going to ask him either, I believe, or that he should come, because the information you provide when he comes is quite just. In fact, at the last appearance, dozens of opposition questions were left unanswered. In any case, we are here because Mr. Torra has an obligation to appear when there is a change of government, and the truth is that the reason is curious. The reason is that there are two people in the Government who have therefore decided to make other political commitments. I love Mr. Torra's difference of opinion. Mrs Borràs presents herself to the list of generals, and thanks Mr Torra for his commitment and for going to defend Catalonia to Congress, but the beasts in human form, we cannot do that. So, the beasts in human form, according to Mr. Torra...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.129.0	Mrs. Rimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.130.0	What?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.131.0	I don't think we're on the right path.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.132.0	Excuse me? Excuse me? [[Rialles.]] Those who do not go in the right way are those who say that we are beasts with human form. Excuse me? That you're going to take away my word for remembering what Mr. Torra has left in writing, or how is it going? On the basis of what are you interrupting me, Mr President of Parliament?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.133.0	On the basis that parliamentary debates, especially when the President of the Generalitat intervened...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.134.0	Excuse me, can you cut my time? Would you mind stopping my time?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.135.0	Don't worry, he won't be detailing his time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.136.0	But he's running.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.137.0	I'm telling you that the Rules require you and all the deputies to have a sense of respect and courtesy for all the members of the chamber...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.138.0	Exactly, of course. [[The joker laughs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.139.0	...and especially to the institutions of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.140.0	It's just that maybe you're lost, but I'm not calling Mr. Toura a beast with a human form. It is Mr. Torra who has called us beasts in human form. Let's see if you're paying attention. [[Greetings.]] If you want us to bleach...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.141.0	Mrs. Rimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.142.0	...to Mr. Torra and let us stop saying what he said in writing, they make it clear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.143.0	Mrs. Arrimadas, I think that this has been explained many times, and you know that this qualification has not been attributed to you, and therefore I think it is false or imputed to the President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.144.0	But good, but good. But what are you, the moderator? When these gentlemen say that we are Francois or that Spain is Francois, does it also intervene to say that Spain is not Francois, or how is this going? I mean, but what is this? [[Greetings.]] Mr President, I assure you that I will not insult or despise any of the Members of this House or anyone else. What you cannot stop me from is remembering what Mr Torra has put in writing and has been condemned by the European Parliament. You can't stop me, no matter how much you try, you can't stop me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.145.0	I simply, Mrs. Arrimadas, and now will continue your time, remind you of the courtesy and respect that you have to keep to the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.146.0	Totally, and I have, it's no concern. May I continue? Well, as I said before, those of you who consider us to be wild beasts, because you have left it in writing, it turns out that we do not have that ability to present ourselves to a list of generals to represent Catalonia and defend the interests of Catalans. I guess that's only within the reach of those you consider to have their DNA all right. Those of you who consider that we have bumps in DNA, because those things we can't do. In any case, you used to say that you as President of the Government are not going to judicialize the policy. I would like to remind you that the person in this Parliament who presented the most personal complaints was you. Because you, as you are certainly considered to be a superior being, I suppose you will also consider that you can file complaints, and when you file complaints you are very well. In fact, you have filed complaints against Rajoy, against Mrs. Sáenz de Santamaría, against Mr. Bono, against Mr. Juan Marín, against Mr. Casado, against the Central Electoral Board. You have also presented others against Llarena. I guess here the double measuring rod is still... spectacular. You can file any complaints you want, and you do it well; but the others, if we file complaints when you violate our rights..., and apart, is that we are much luckier when justice gives us reason because we have it. Yes, yes, because we have it, because you violate our rights, and above it is wrong with everyone, because it violates our rights and above it, in the end, late and wrong, ends up defrauding yours. It's just that you're... well, now we're going to talk about how you're getting close to nothing. But with regard to the last of the things you said before, this is a government committed to diversity, committed to respect for all Catalans. Look, Mr. Torra, you've written things like: "It's the risk that the birth – Catalan – "is undone like a sugar cane in a jar of llet, pinned for the immigration allau. That's what you did, he left it for you to write. You say that those of us who file complaints are things, and we are "brainless beasts who present resources. I suppose now you're also going to be part of the group of unbrained beasts who present quarrels, because that's what you're doing. But you have to have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.147.0	Mrs. Arrimadas, you had just addressed the President of the Generalitat with qualifications that are not the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.148.0	That they're the ones the president of the generality has spoken to us...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.149.0	No, but... no, the President of the Generality has never served these qualifications...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.150.0	No! No! He left them to write... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.151.0	Excuse me. Ever since you're president... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You see, the President of the Generalitat does not use these qualifications in the exercise of his duties. [[Widow's remorse.]] So, Mr. Vice President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.152.0	What an arbiter we have here! What an arbitrator! What an arbitrator!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.153.0	Order! [[Widow's remorse.]] Order! Madame Arrimadas, you... I asked you... I asked you to address the President of the Generalita with courtesy and respect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.154.0	Totally. It's what I do – it's what I do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.155.0	Right now, when I interrupted him I wasn't doing it, so I interrupted him.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.156.0	We already know that Mr. Torra needs help...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.157.0	So, they ask them for a second time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.158.0	...but it's a little brazen what you're doing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.159.0	...for a second time... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You can't ask for the word when you use the word another person. I'll give you the word when the deputy who uses the word has finished the intervention. And they don't know how hard...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.160.0	I know that Mr. Torra...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.161.0	...if you wish to continue to maintain a sense of respect and courtesy for the members of the chamber and for the presidency... Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.162.0	Man, I know that Mr Torra needs help, because only very well is not given to him, but this is very brazen, Mr President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.163.0	Mrs. Tops, one second. Mrs. Rimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.164.0	This is a misconception...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.165.0	Mrs. Rimadas... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Vice President, the cry to order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.166.0	And I call you to order!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.167.0	Mr. Vice President, the cry to order...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.168.0	I call you to order because you are acting arbitrarily. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.169.0	Mr. Vice President, the cry to order. [[Pause.]] Go on, Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.170.0	You should complain; this is a shame. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's just that it's a shame – it's a shame.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.171.0	You have the word, Mrs. Rimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.172.0	Ah, that keeps telling me the time... I mean, it's unfortunate. [[Widow's remorse.]] Can you cut me some time, please? It's just that I'm running out of time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.173.0	It's the word you have, Mrs. Rimadas. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You have the word, Mrs. Rimadas. There's no more word, and I'm not interrupting the return of Mrs. Rimadas to donate the word to anyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.174.0	Look, if you think you're going to whitewash Mr. Torra with what you did the other day, when the European Parliament told him that you're a racist, a xenophobic and a supremacist, you know that. [[Greetings.]] You've got it all figured out. European Parliament – European Parliament. You must be very scrupulous so that you can take the lead in a debate in favour of immigration when the three main parties in the European Parliament have described you, in writing, as xenophobic, racist and supremacist. And it is very ugly for the parliamentary debate, which you both claim to defend, that I am not allowed to remember the reality, and that is that it is the xenophobic articles that have been condemned by the European Parliament, by the three main parties of the European Parliament, Mr Torra. You see the plumber, having to come out from behind the Bureau of Parliament, even to try to defend the indefensible. But, well, we'll keep reminding you. Don't worry. The European Parliament is very clear, who you are and what you have defended. But, ultimately, who have they put in place for the councillors who are leaving? Man, then, to replace Mrs Borràs, another worthy signatory of the Koiné manifesto. He could not stay, this Government of the Generalitat, without someone who would have signed of his fist and letter that we are linguistic colonizers. I, personally, who come from other parts of Andalusia, am a linguistic colonizer for the Councillor of Culture. So, give the profile. You are a worthy successor to Mrs Borràs. Welcome to a government that's up to you, perfectly. I mean, really, you're in the right place. Of course, it considers that the language of education only has to be Catalan. They give him an interview about education and neither the barracks nor social inequality worry him, nor that Catalonia is the autonomous community where money..., one of the autonomous communities where the money of the parents most affects the school results of the children, no, she only worries that it remains as the only language to convey Catalan. You're in the place that touches you. And, of course, Mrs. Budó, welcome. They cast a casting and said, "Well, who is more involved with the use of Spanish in Parliament? Mrs. Budo, huh? , which already in 2012 said that: "Albert Rivera speaks in castle to the Parliament of Catalonia, once more, and also with lack of spelling, that you, to defend Catalan, then write it quite badly, by the way, eh? , with several spelling errors. [[Greetings.]] Well, here's Mrs. Budo. And, of course, a mayor who says, who considers that 35_per_cent of the people in her municipality do not deserve to be represented in the city hall. And, as 35_per_cent of the voters of the Garriga are not voters of separatist parties, so, they have to endure, so that, when they go to their town hall, they see it all full of separatist propaganda. Well, we, who also defend that 35_per_cent of non-separatist voters in your municipality, have gone to the area election board and – surprise, surprise – have given us the reason, because you violate the rights of your own citizens, which is very sad: to reach mayor to violate the rights of the citizens of your municipality. That's got to be... those of us who have a little bit of a sense of respect for everyone would do us a lot of harm. But I guess not you. Well, well, welcome to the worst government in history. This government, to which you belong, of course, is not here to do any social project. Probably, and you know it, he has a few weeks or months left in the government. But you come to the government that has worse waiting lists of dependency from all over Spain. You come to the government that has more barracks than any other autonomous community. You come to the government that has 77,000_million_euros of debt, 77,000, over 77,000. Right, Mr. Vice President? More than 77,000_million_euros of debt. You come to the government that has the social rates frozen since 2009. Ten years of tariff freezes, in which social entities have had to assume the tax increase, the increase in labour costs, the increase in the price of life. That's right, you come to the government that quickly, right? , grants the third degree to his friends, Mr Pujol, when they are even registered and convicted of corruption. You come to the government of disobedience, but it does not please anyone. Have you given the thought, Mr. Torra, that you are going to fail for everyone, for all Catalans, even for your own, for those who really want independence? [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] The other day, we saw him almost having to beg forgiveness from the CDRs: "Please, no, don't tell me this. You're going to fail in front of everyone...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.175.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.176.0	I guess you'll keep me in mind how much time you've taken from me before, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.177.0	It's been a while before...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.178.0	Ah, okay – okay, okay. Sorry, I hadn't seen the change. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.179.0	...and now it's divided. It's over, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.180.0	Thank you, Mr. President, for not seeing the change. You're going to fail in front of your own. It's going to end the legislature and you're going to offer your people nothing, the little sign that Mr Bargalló has taken out before, which, as they also consider themselves superior, they can also take out little signs, but we can't.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.181.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.182.0	I mean, ours is pretty much better than yours. It's not for nothing, is it? But it's not for nothing. [[Greetings.]] But, finally, you're...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.183.0	Congresswoman, now we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.184.0	Well, with his cut, yes. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, welcome, welcome to the Government of the Generalitat, to the worst Government in the history of the Generalitat, a government that guarantees...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.185.0	Congresswoman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.186.0	...that is up to you and a government that is going to disappoint everyone, also the independenceists, Mr. Torra, and you know it. You know, you're going to violate our rights so you don't get anything at all. Sooner than later, a government will arrive here that does not disappoint all Catalans, that prioritizes social policies and that has to reverse all the mismanagement, coexistence and economic issues that you have made in just a year.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.187.0	Congresswoman, now it is. [[Greetings.]] Thank you, Congresswoman. Say'm, Mr. Carrizosa. Why ask me the word, now?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.188.0	To protest..., for a point of order and strongly protest the treatment given to the head of the opposition during her intervention. It was intolerable for anyone who was presiding over the Chamber to interrupt the speaker on repeated occasions, who merely quoted texts of books written and articles written by Mr Torra. It is an intolerable intrusion and a censorship from the highest position of the House; it perverts the parliamentary institution's failure to express what Mr Torra has already said in repeated writings and in repeated articles.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.189.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.190.0	Please ask that speakers be respected and that the head of the opposition be respected, because we are seeing things in this Parliament that we have never seen before. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.191.0	May I... [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] One moment, Mrs. Segovia. I allow myself to claim this respect and responsibility to all Members of the Chamber. You know that. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.192.0	Yes; for real demand is that I allow the debate to flow, that we believe that in this case it was not incomplicable what we had granted between the different spokespersons and that we really consider that there has been an excessive intrusion on the part of the Bureau of Parliament in the debate. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.193.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Thank you, Congresswoman. Mr. Pedret, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.194.0	Thank you, President. For the same reason that intervened.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.195.0	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.196.0	We understand that the agreement that had been reached was to try to prevent Members and Members from failing to respect or disqualify or insult other Members and Members or Members of the Government in the debate. We understand that on this occasion this did not happen and that, therefore, the interruptions that have been repeated at the length of Mrs. Arrimadas' intervention were not based on this agreement, which I believe had been quite extensive in the room. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.197.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.198.0	Thank you, President. Exactly on the same line. We understand that we have not given any of the assumptions we discussed at the meeting that we were going to hold the spokespersons with the president in relation to insults in relation to deputies or other people. And, therefore, we believe that Article 39, which establishes the functions of the President of the Chamber, which is to regulate the debates impartially, has been difficultly incomplete. And that, today, didn't happen that way. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.199.0	Thank you, Congressman. In any case, let me reiterate the call to mutual respect and the responsibility of all the members of the chamber. And in any case, obviously, as far as the agreement we have reached and which you have made reference to today, what we will do is, in the Bureau itself, and also with the parliamentary groups, revisit the agreement and see how it applies or does not apply to this agreement, which..., how it applies to this agreement. Indeed, the agreement that we took all the groups in the chamber and that more respect and refers to the code of conduct has to be applied. Indeed, we will review how this agreement applies, which, on the other hand, is close to the chairmanship of the Arbitrary Parliament at every moment. We're still on the table. It is now the return of Mr Miquel Iceta, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.200.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Very honorable President of the Generality, allow 'but begin by congratulating him, to you and to your Government, and especially to the Secretary General of Immigration, for the impetus of the Pact on Immigration and Against Racism that all parliamentary groups wanted to subscribe to for a while. And now yes, now I'm going to the debate that brings us here. Mr. President, two government advisors who preside are running for election and have resigned from office. Another counselor had already done so months ago, for the same reason. You explain the names and we thank him for doing so before the plenary; it is his responsibility. Of the work of the outgoing advisors, we cannot talk about it, for the short duration of his mandate, not because we do not value his efforts, but less than a year he does not give to make a balance. We take advantage, in any case, of the fact that we want them to go well – not too much, because they go to elections in which we compete, but, in other words, that they go well – and we also take advantage of the fact that we want the nine advisers to come out and be sure in their tasks. Given the precedents, we can't trust that he has a long mandate, but as you never know, so he's out and he's uncertain. President, from our point of view, his is not a good government; he is not providing the necessary stability, and in the control session we have already talked about the negative effects of this feeling of temporaryity and political uncertainty on foreign economic investment and, in general, on the economy. Nor do we believe that your government has the level of quality that the country deserves and needs. Now we know that his Government is demanding new economic endowments from the Government of Spain, when a few weeks ago the groups supporting his Government joined their votes to the parliamentary groups of the PP and of Citizens to abort the parliamentary debate of the Project of General Presumptions of the State for 2019, which incorporated an additional 1,400_million euros for the Generality and a public investment from the State to Catalonia that exceeded 2,200_million euros. Maybe they might have rumied a little before they stopped even so alone that we started the debate on the premises of the Congress of Deputies. Precisely because he did not count on a majority who supported the assumptions, the president of the Government of Spain dissolved the chambers to call early general elections. And here what a difference you make to what you make! You are limited to pinning on the generality's website what they say could be a project of presupposition. You're telling us you have this project, but you didn't want to approve them at the execution council or take them to Parliament. With this, as you know, they are in contravention of the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy in its article 212, which says the following: "The presumption of the Generality has an annual character, it is unique and includes all the expenses and all the entrances of the Generality, and also of the organizations, the institutions and the enterprises that depend on it. It is the responsibility of the Government to draw up and execute the premise, and of the Parliament to examine it, to examine it, to approve it and to control it. The text recast of the Law on Public Finance of Catalonia states in its article 32 the following: "The Law on Presumables of the Generality and the attached documentation shall be submitted to the Parliament of Catalonia before October 10 of each year, for its examination, examination and approval. Since the government did not take possession until June 2, 2018, we understood that you presented the project of assumptions beyond October. But you can understand that you don't do it after and for political convenience. But at least in this you have been clear and sincere; they have told us in their parliament: "We do not present the assumptions to the chamber, because we do not have the majority to approve them. When we see that we can have a majority, then we'll introduce them. But, President, this argument, from our point of view, is not acceptable, because it contradicts the State and the Law of Finance of the Generality. You have an obligation to present the draft assumptions, and if Parliament does not approve them, you could present a question of confidence, as did Carles Puigdemont or could dissolve Parliament and call elections, as Pedro Sánchez did. The premise is the foundational tool for government action, and its approval believes that the executive council has a majority to govern. President, in our opinion, you do not have the right to do what you do, you do not have the right to contravene the Statute and our laws. To rule a majority that you yourselves say you don't have; the hundreds of votes lost for the government to Parliament so believe. But their problem isn't just that they don't have a majority to rule, they don't have a clear time frame for the legislature: they don't know when they're flying or they can finish it or they don't know where they're going – or that's our opinion. Why is that the object of this legislature? Is that a republic? To make a new reference, so that October 1 was not valid? Re-declaring independence? Finish disobeyed? President, it would not be wise to make the same mistakes that were made during the months of September and October 2017; it would not be wise to mislead the institutions or the confidence of the citizenry in politics. It is not compromise to that which knows perfectly well that it is not in its abyss or which entails harmful consequences for our self-government and our institutions. Maybe I'm wrong, and you just want to rule in the law, exercising the powers attributed to you by the Generality, using the best that you know your resources, and thinking about doing it. I've got it all from the legal mark. So good, that's how it goes. But in any case, Mr President, we must also say that you did not get it from our point of view. From the outset, his Government does not fulfil parliamentary mandates or commitments made before the chamber. Parliament has approved a mandate to lower the price of university subjects and to equate the price of masters with degrees, and you do not do so. Parliament has approved that the Generality's co-responsibility in the financing of municipal schools has been recovered, and you do not do so. Parliament has approved that it is better working conditions and equipment for police and firefighters, and you do not. You were supposed to update the School Mensers' Decree, and you don't. They had to deploy the Children's Law, and they didn't. They had to pass a law of accessibility to the health system to reduce waiting lists, and they don't. They undertook to approve by decree the tourism regulation, which among other things had to regulate tourist accommodation, and they did not do so. They committed themselves to bringing a science bill to Parliament, and they don't. You yourself had to propose the names of the members of the National Council of Culture and Arts, and you don't. Disadvantages in whether the Government prevents the proper functioning of the Centre for Vocational Training in Automotive, Martorell, which has been the subject of a question from our group. Its legislative activity is minimal: we have only amended three existing laws, two of which were proposed by our group. The third sector employer is complaining about the infra-financing of the services and is demanding an urgent injection of between 600 and 900 million euros to meet the most urgent needs. According to Health Department data, 177,976 patients are waiting for surgery, a 10_per_cent more than in April 2018, and the waiting time is seventy-two days, five days more than when you were elected president. While the most urgent operations of oncology and heart surgery are kept within the time of reference stipulated to the law, there have been increased delays and people waiting to be operations of knee and malice, cataracts and other less urgent operations. The waiting lists of diagnostic tests have increased by 23,5_per_cent, it has increased by 27,736 people since you took possession of it. Midday hope is seventy-four days, increased in twenty-two days. Magnetic resonance imaging trigates seventy-seven days, twenty-six more, and echocardiography, ninety days, thirty days more. The 454,098 users expect a mid-seven-day standard to be visited by the specialist, if it should be noted that the waiting time in gynaecology and allergy has been reduced in a very significant way. While his Government recognizes that Catalonia has 350,000 people in a situation of severe poverty, the guaranteed income of citizens has only 120,000 beneficiaries. The month of February, 26,104 Catalans, to whom they had recognized the two most severe degrees of dependence, were still waiting for the performance. President, I don't think I've been exhausted, but I've given quite a few examples, with extremes from the very sources of the government, that your government isn't on the rise, and it already does de_mesos to develop its activity. And, therefore, the question I would ask you at this time is: President, are you on condition of ensuring a stable and effective government? I believe that this is the most important issue in today's debate, regardless of the respect that the Councillors deserve as much as they go along with the Councillors who join them. The question is, do you know where they're going? Do you know how long they can continue to rule poorly in these conditions? We believe that they are not at the height of which the country deserves and needs. And we would have it if you were uncertain about certain things; if there is inopportunity, it will be effective; if you have denied it, it will be a hope. And if you can't, Mr. President, call elections. Honestly, we think the country would appreciate it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.201.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.202.0	Yeah. Good morning to all; good morning, President, again. Now I have to address you for the renovations you have made to your government, but I would certainly like to raise a previous question. I think we would all agree that a government is the tool, it's the instrument we have to build the country we are, and we would certainly also agree that a government has to age for general interests and not for party or private interests. We would also agree that a government needs a strategic plan, objectives and a measure so that public opinion can judge its actions. And finally we would also agree that a government needs to bring forward assumptions, that they are the most powerful tool it has to guarantee rights. As I am convinced that you have accompanied me in this argument, I want you to accompany me also in the conclusion; and it is that you, as you do not comply with these conditions to be a government, you are not a government: you are the most patent exhibition of the government and the weakness that Catalonia has suffered since the beginning of democracy. They know that until now we have named them "the Torra-Aragonese government, but they leave us no more than to beat them down, and now, from then on, we will say "the lords of the government." They're the Torra-Aragonese government. A government, moreover, that you want to export as the Catalan brand to the Congress and the Assembly of Barcelona, because you are demonstrating, moreover, that governing Catalonia is not its priority. Because Catalonia, moreover, implies much more than all this, Catalonia implies much more than blocking, Catalonia implies the responsibility of promoting changes from cities like Barcelona to Spain itself. But I want to be fair, and I believe that things must also be said by his name: the infamous judgment and the exceptional situation that Catalonia is experiencing right now has deprived the independence parties of its first political line, of its main leaders; and that must be acknowledged and said. Now, one thing is to recognize this deprivation of the first line of independence parties, and the other thing is that this follows an obstacle to recognizing also the incapacity manifests that it is having this government at the time of resolving the problems that the citizenry has. Look, you were invested as president on May 14th of the year with a strong idea, which was to have an effective government, and since then we've seen three things, three very clear elements. The first is that the struggle for the hegemony of independence is free in Parliament, but also in the Generality. We have seen it in the battle for the delegation of votes of the deputies tried for the Supreme Court; we have seen it in the battle for the reform of the Rules, and also the premise of the Parliament; we have seen it in the battle for the relationship between purists, pragmatists, between who was the first or last to bring in; we have seen it also in the attempt to control the public communication media, and in the background we have seen it for the leadership of Puigdemont and for the strategy of the no and the block at all. And the worst of all is that Catalonia now has to keep hanging from you and paying for the broken dishes of your paralysis, your incapacity and your improvisation, because you are installed in a constant improvisation. I've already told you: I don't think there's a country that can stand as much inaction as it is now patenting Catalonia. The second element that we are seeing in this year of Parliament is its paralysis. When the mobilizations of the late heat, of the students, of the teachers, of the doctors, of the nurses, of the moves, of the bombers, of the workers and of the public workers arrived, they were surprised; yes! They didn't expect it. Man, that's what they're not touching from little to little, and they're not seeing what reality is like. Well, as always, they ended up reacting late and poorly. And we've seen that all of your legislature has gone awry few and let yourself be carried away by intruders. Even you didn't start talking about assumptions until you arrived on November 29th, and we presented the two measures of Catalonia in Comú We can to bring forward assumptions and to negotiate assumptions that are social and expanding, that are at the height of the needs that Catalonia has after a decade of austerity and detail. But after months trying to do that, what we saw was that you had no interest in approving the assumptions and that you were more likely to have other issues. And the third element that we have also seen during this year of the legislature is the uncertainty they have about Catalonia because of its improvisation and irresponsibility. And, just when Catalonia is at an exceptional moment, when it needs more certainty, when it needs more clarity, needs a strong government, needs listening and needs dialogue, you respond more easily. I'd like to know how they intend to get all the policies they're supposed to do – because they haven't done so far; they want to do them, they always want to do it – I don't know how they'll do without enough parliamentary support. I do not know what they intend to do with the institutions of Catalonia. Will you present a question of trust, since you said that some elections you do not want to see them in painting? What's that supposed to mean? What will it expand, extend this legislature until the elections give them good results and respond to the party and electoral interests? I think you can't play this way with the needy and with Catalonia. And I think under normal circumstances we could say that we are in front of a government crisis, as usual as anywhere when we come in and people come in and out. But what we've been living on since May 14th of last year is not a government crisis, it's a government in permanent crisis, and that's why we're the leaders of the government. I don't know what's left of us to see this legislature, I don't know if ultimately Esquerra will let go of the government to advance some elections, and the truth is, it wouldn't surprise us at all anymore. And meanwhile, while we are seeing that, beyond the reality of the independence parties, there is a Catalonia that, despite the fact that they are beginning to give the macroeconomic figures that have emerged green, not up to the end of the month and to which no one solves the problems of their day to day. We see that the outcome of the crisis is like a headline to a diary, but then you go to certain barrels of Catalonia the poor every time it's harder. According to the last report of Catalan Social Welfare Entities, one Catalan is at risk of poverty; this figure up to 50 per cent when we talk about the foreign-origin population. The precariousness of work, as if not a year ago with you..., so we are that 82_percent of the contracts that are made every year are temporary; we are in that 13_percent of the workers and the workers are poor and do not arrive at the end of the month; we are in that 50_percent of the people who are at the time no longer receive any benefit. Let's talk about the real estate market, which is soft between instability and abuse, and the generality, instead of giving it an answer, what does it do? It presents a decree that is an insult to the working classes of this country. [[Greetings.]] And also – also – talk about the consumption of public spending in health, education and social promotion. Between 2010 and 2014, it was reported that between €4,000_million will now be found that only 1.800_million euros have been recovered in the course of reversing the retail trade. But I'll say more, the ECAS report, what do you say? , that the Generality seems not to have agreed that the social needs are now greater, because inflation has to be taken into account. Therefore, not only do they not reverse the details, but they are also not putting the expenditure at the cost of living level as it has now risen. And also of the realities that are of the reptes. For one thing, there is the feminist movement, which is demanding from the streets that their demands be converted into public policies; we are not seeing this on the part of their government. And on the other hand, there is also the movement in favor of climate justice. I have already said this before the control session: half a hundred experts and experts in climate justice have had to come together to denounce the inaction of their government in the fight against climate change. The truth is that you are demonstrating that your priority is not to rule Catalonia. And this also shows that two strong leaders of the Government, Mrs. Elsa Artadi, Mrs. Laura Borràs, two pillars of the President, come directly to the electoral lists and abandon their responsibilities of government. I don't know if it's now Junts per Catalunya that has decided not to defend Catalonia's interests since the Generalitat or, in a way, they are implicitly recognizing that Catalonia's interests are also defending Madrid. The truth is that the case of Madrid is surprising. Madrid was an outdated screen, in Madrid she did not want to negotiate anything, but Mrs. Laura Borràs competes with the lists of the Congress to go to Madrid; but, yes, Mrs. Laura Borràs says: "The governance of Spain is not our thing. Then I'd like to know what they're going to Madrid. Are they going to Madrid to block, are they going to Madrid to block university taxes, the regulation of loggers, the financing of schools in Bressol? I think his plan is to go to Madrid to export the blockade as public policy, which is what they are doing to the Generalitat. That's his measure. Because I'd like to know that if they're going to block, so they don't nearly wander. And the case of Barcelona is also becoming the expected tonic. Ms. Elsa Artadi insists that in these elections it is as important to make Ada Colau out of the assembly as independence. I don't know if when he said he was a spokesman for the Torra-Aragonese Government or he was already a candidate for Junts for Catalonia at the Barcelona City Council, but the question is that he has, for what we see, very much in common with Mr Valls and Mr Collboni, because the two of them have said the same thing. I think there are people who don't want a communal woman to be the first mayor of the country's capital; a woman who doesn't give anyone any favors; a woman who stands in front of the lobby; a woman who, of course, has twice been attached to a question of trust – she has been brave, not like you, President – and a woman who has managed to get Barcelona to follow the capital of the State that invests the most in social matters. That said, I only have to welcome the ladies Maria Ángela Vilallonga and Meritxell Budó, send her a strong hug to Mrs. Laura Borràs and Elsa Artadi and, President, insist that, please, we call for elections. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.203.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. All the same, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the Member of the House of Representatives, Natalia Sánchez, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.204.0	Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, President. He knows very well that the CUP is not satisfied with its government, a government without objectives, from our point of view, without a country project. And that it has not only abandoned all republican ambition, delivered to battles of pure symbolism to preserve the lack of project, but has also renounced to govern for the people of this country, for the popular classes, for the 23_percent of the citizenry that it saw in the outburst of the poor, for the majority, for the people that all and work not up to the end of the month, for the punishments for a predatory system. In the face of a situation of permanent precariousness, extreme exceptionality, in a state which impregnates and reprimands us, I would like to expect of the Government of the country all ambition and compromises, compromises with the requests and popular wills expressed in multiple forms: waves of workers in the public sector, of health personnel, of primary care, of bombers, of women, of the people migrated, of the loggers and the loggers, of the students, of the anti-feixists, of the veins of the Costa Brava, of the people of the LGBT. And no, you have no intention of responding to these requests. Actually, we've seen the opposite. We see how the repressive force of your government coerces the fundamental rights of the very same and the pure style of the police bodies of the State. Today, four nights ago, Rut's company, the anti-feixist company, sleeps in prison. She's busy, and we want to take advantage of this cliff to make it very clear that she's not alone, that we're all anti-fascists and that we want Rut home. [[Greetings.]] You are installed in the independence of the business, of the subs, of the boxes. Have the corporate government's pasty been distributed yet? They cannot aspire to break with the 78's rule if they do not break with the old forms of political iron. Both parties are after the old Convergence: liberal, cosmetic continuity, progress, much rhetoric and symbolism, a decoration of stone cartron. The break goes through decorated treures, and this, from our point of view, does not go through Madrid. They want to represent the country's new political elite and in this tough partisan struggle they practice the partisan-cractical colonization of institutions, so as to confuse the party with the country. The desertion of counselors, obliving two months after the compromise they took, is a new proof more of this lack of project. Mr. Torra, the fragility of your government is public and notoriety. They are not at the height of the circumstances, they are not at the height of the people, of the popular movement that is the engine of any transformation. The government has lost all credibility, if that's what it got into, and that's a tough country problem. President Torra, during the control session he said that they have the majority to rule, that they have a parliamentary majority. It takes time for him not to listen to us, since from the moment of the investiture we are in opposition and we reprimand this government both for its public policies, for repression on the part of the Mosos to popular movements and for its paralysis in the matter of action for self-determination. If they do not believe that the Government of Catalonia is a useful tool for fighting for social, national and anti-repression rights; if they believe that there is a market for electoral advice, they do one last public service, that for that we are here, to speak clearly; leave behind rhetoric and recognize that they do not know where they are going and that they are going. Where was the Counsellor of Education when the Mossos recorded the country's schools in search of ties of any color? Where is the institutional campaign to promote public school? What's the compromise of this government and the Justice Council in the fight against corruption? How is it possible that Oriol Pujol went out on the street after he had gone into prison? This week we were able to see a powerful country promotion campaign of Scotland. What's going on with the Exterior Counselor's office? The only foreign advisor we have is Mr. Borrell, since from our institution there is no political initiative. Raval's veins and veins continue to occupy the chapel of Mercy to claim the CAP; waiting lists at health centres are still chronified. We're the greeting counselor? Where's Territori's advisor while he's continuing the knowledge of denunciations? The councils of Culture, Presidency, Exteriors have been relegated to a _second floor to attend to other electoral matters. Do you know anything about Councilman Buch? You're still running the Interior Council? President Torra, I have no doubt that when the government of the Republican Left and the Junts for Catalonia is over, they will want to blame you. There's no doubt about it, because here we are in front of a fight of games. President Torra, always be blunt in denouncing that his government does not advance either socially or nationally, and always be solidarities and determined in any expression of political repression of the Spanish State, the pateixi that pateixi her. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] That's why, President Torra, you're not alone, all our support, today too...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.205.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.206.0	...to face the repression of the State. But also that this government does not subject its political action to this repression of the state. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.207.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia is now the turn of the deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.208.0	Thank you very much, President. I would like to start this speech by wishing the Councillors who start a different political path and, of course, also wish the new Councillors who take possession luck and success. Having said that, and before analysing the situation of the Government and of Catalan policy in this brief intervention that I have, I cannot resist to make reference to one thing, is that I cannot – I cannot. It's just that I've listened to the President..., it's that you're in love with yourself, it's a... I can understand that you claim your government management, it's totally legitimate, but the mix of self-congratulation and cursileness with which you have referred at times – with all due respect – to Mrs. Borràs seems to me a thing..., to me it's absolutely pathetic, isn't it? They refer to the anecdote of the Quixote as if it were a Churchillian episode of the history of universal politics. For to me, in fact..., I remember that anecdote and it may be a good episode, but to me..., I have in my head another episode of Mrs. Borrás – I insist, give deep respect to her –, I remember one, it is a press conference; in that press conference Mrs. Borrás says: "Yes, I heard the rumor that they were investigating me, and as I had next to Councilman Buch I said: Miquel, is it true that they are investigating me? And he answered me, "Yes, wait, I'll look at him. ........................................................................................................................................................................... [[Rialles.]] And he said it. And you're the smart ones. [[applause]] My mother. Well, congratulations. All I'm saying is that you should reread El Quixote, because as you know, surely better than I do, you know that El Quixote became, on the one hand, the end of the picaresque novel, and in turn it takes it to another dimension, and you need some picaresque to overcome the worlds of Yupi in which his colleagues have installed it, because it goes to Congress... – they will treat it very well, I have been there and you will be able to check it – but you will need all this merengue, this self-complacence with which they refer, therefore, to overcome it. Having said that, three general considerations on the President's intervention, and I think we have repeated them on many occasions, but as we are installed in a loop, I have no choice but to repeat them. First: in Catalonia there are no political prisoners, that will not be recognized by any European or international institution; you can repeat it until exhaustion, there are no political prisoners. Nor is there a problem of low democratic quality in Spain. We are, according to The Economist, one of the nineteen great democracies in the world, above France, Italy and other countries that you use many times as a reference. In fact, if we can say that there is a democratic problem in Spain, it is because in one of its autonomous communities, which is Catalonia, it is the only autonomous community where, for example, the neutrality of the public space is not respected, which is used totalitarianly in the service, only, of the ideology of the half; because here in Catalonia it is the only place where the neutrality of the political institutions is not respected, at the service exclusively of the half of Catalan society. The problem of democratic quality will not be found in the Congress of Deputies, Mrs Borràs will not be found in the Congress of Deputies, we have it here in the Parliament of Catalonia. A recent Constitutional Court ruling tells us – you have not spoken about this, Mr Torra – that on 6 and 7 September our democratic rights as parliamentarians and representatives of the people's will were seriously violated. That has happened, that is a violation, that is a problem of democratic quality. We have it here, not in the rest of Spain, we have it in Catalonia. Having said that, on what has been said, you have made a demand about government action; insisting on the same ideas, there is no solid parliamentary majority; finally, after the intervention of the spokesman of the UPC, which I believe has been harder than I, it is demonstrated, once again, in a palm, this extreme. There is no government plan; I also had a small list of things that have been failing, Mr.Iceta stole it from me – I'm sorry to agree with you, I know it won't be very funny right now, but in this case we had some coincidence. There is no budget, nor is there, therefore, any of the essential elements for it to be able to continue the legislature, and therefore, as we told you in the last appearance, there are only two ways – this afternoon I imagine that we are again debating this – either elections or a motion of confidence, that is what in any healthy democratic system would be the only alternative – or the two, in this case – that you, President, could have in the face of the situation. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.209.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the parliamentary group Republic, it is the return of Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.210.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, president, deputies, deputies. We're here basically for two motiuses. First of all, to welcome the two nine councillors who join us after these changes to the government, and secondly, from the Republican Left, also to make a cry to conjure us another time before the proper months, to conjure us – unlike some of the opposition – to make a government even stronger, more cohesive, more solid before the new repression that will come with the feeling and with the judiciary to democracy. We are in the key moments of our country's history and it is up to us. But first I would like to thank the two Councillors, Artadi and Borrás Councillor, for their hard work, for their perseverance and also for helping to resume the tasks of government after such a difficult time as that of 155. And to wish whom now the replete takes them – Councillor Budó, Councillor Vilallonga – fate and uncertainty in this new and stimulating stage they start, because, if they have, this success will also be for everyone. The responsibility they have at their disposal is immense, to represent the country, to defend its people, to defend our institutions, to fight for our rights, for our freedoms, for the interests of all citizens, to exercise, in the end, the public service for everyone. Take a transcendental step to serve the country from one of its highest institutions at a time of exceptionality; an exceptionality that will intensify in its own months with a feeling that we know will be only fair if it is absolute, but that we know the State and we know that it will not be and that it will not be able to resist the temptation to dictate a hard feeling, just as it has not been able to resist to undertake and silence the Catalan political leaders, despite the international displeasure that this has entailed them, the degeneration of the State of Right and the Spanish democracy that this supposes them. So, Cal, let us strengthen ourselves, let us conjure ourselves, because they come complicated times, and we will have to be prepared. When the sentence comes, we need, more than ever, a strong government to deal with what will be the hardest fights against the votes and against the ballots, a fight against democracy and against freedom. We will need a strong government, a government of resistance, which guided a collective response; a government that defends the rights and freedoms before a state that does not care to carry democracy to maintain the unity of the kingdom. But this country will not be quiet, and we will need once again the October 1st communion between the institutions and the citizenry to fight the new attacks that will arrive. From Esquerra we have always defended the importance of recovering institutions, of working from the government to build the republic, the importance that independence is present to all institutions, to demonstrate effectiveness, management capacity, seriousness and willingness to govern, always, for everyone. Because only then will the project continue to grow. We know and know the difference between having and not having institutions. The month of May, at the investiture of President Torra, we have already defended it: we aspire to build a republic where everyone feels represented, and that is why we must embrace everyone. We want to make government to make republic and make republic make republicans and republicans. And we're still here, combining day by day the struggle for our horizon, but working at times to build a fairer society from the government and fighting to achieve the independence of this country, which is the only way to make a country cleaner, fairer and freer. And we persist, despite the fact that repression never stops. They haven't had enough of the supreme shame judgment against men and women. We have seen this week: the State Advocate and the Public Prosecutor's Office have called for the investigation of October 1 voters now – yes, October 1 voters–; we have seen the Central Electoral Board setting limits to freedom of expression in public media. Can we have free elections, like those that come to us now, when the freedom of expression is limited to public communication means? When are there any successful candidates? Where is democracy with restrictions on debate and public space? That is also why we need a strong and committed government, they are resisting; that we need republican assemblies this spring; that we need a strong parliamentary majority to face the coming months. Also before the attacks of the most extreme right, he threatens us every day with a new 155; he threatens us even to intervene directly, without 155, without ends. We have to stop them, and we need all the democrats on the same side. That's why it's gonna need to be stronger and stronger every day, and all the time. To show us and conjure us, to grow, to convince, to embrace, to persuade that the alternative of all is grog and lilac, and is called the Catalan Republic. And we want to do so because as we left and as a parliamentary group, we defend republicanism as a tool to equip ourselves with a country that is socially more just, politically more free and nationally free. Our political aspiration is not a republic because it is. We want a republic to open the country, to guarantee everyone's rights. We want independence to build a better country. It's not an object itself, it's not all over here. The Republic is where it all starts. There are all the struggles that we share, right and right, the rights of everyone; also civil and political, and also social. A republic for everyone, inclusive, constructive, a home. Builders of the country as our opinions and parents did afterwards, building cities, towns, streets almost no-res, with hands, building community, building culture, building country, step by step. Treading the web with everyone, come from where to come and speak the language you speak, whatever its origin is. We are the ones who want to add everyone, because our maximum is that we are a people's sun. And we'll follow it, though a few, though everything. We want to be a people's sun, as we were with linguistic immersion, which brought the families of Santa Coloma de Gramenet to guarantee a future of their children with equality. We want to add because it's only moving forward with you, with diversity, with plurality. We enrich ourselves with society and complement each other, always. And that's precisely why we also govern for everyone, working for everyone, with a government of all. We will never leave anyone on the sidelines for ideological, political reasons, for any reason. Res justifies the exclusion, although some, if they govern, would want to do so. We have always said: we want to build a government that works for everyone, come from where to come and think what you think. Before those who say they don't give water to half the Catalans, our proposal is water for everyone. We show every day that we work for everyone, even for those who want to go to prison to think what we think. We build a government that does, proposes, approves, fights. We are not the ones we block, the ones we ban, the ones we censor or the ones we employ that think differently than we are. And we know, and we say again, that the Republic is the only way to guarantee the political rights of all the citizens of Catalonia. We know that it is not easy, we are in a coalition government, with two forces that have very different ideological approaches, that have often defended different projects, but that are able to create a joint execution and work in coordination, for the sake of state and for a shared purpose: the construction of a Catalan republic. The government we won at the polls, the government we want, who works for everyone, who defends a public school that allows our children not only to have academic knowledge, but also critical skills, who make gifts and free men tomorrow. That's precisely why we want to deploy guaranteed income, that's exactly why we just had a project of assumptions where three of every four euros was allocated to social policies. We work, therefore, to guarantee and shield the social rights of the whole country, to improve the living conditions of the citizenry, convinced as we are that the struggle for national rights is always indestriable from the struggle for social rights. We go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and Let's get ready to shield the national rights, too. With the feeling of '1 October, the moment will be transcendental. We all need each other, and we're gonna have to know we're up. And remember, let us remember that we will never give up our political objectives or the peaceful and democratic path. We will always brandish the flag of the dialog, because the future of this country only passes through the ballot box. In fact, the ballot boxes are the only way we know, and that's where the democrats walk. It is the only way to decide, to unite in the making of decisions as the collective, to give answer to the citizens' concerns. We are the ones of yes to a republic, but above all we are the ones of yes to give answers to people's longings. In short, we are the ones of yes to democracy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.211.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.212.0	President Torrent, President Torra, Councillors, Lords and Lords of Deputies, good morning. From the outset, convinced that the best parliamentary courtesy is that which is practical, a first question to Mrs. Arrimadas: why to the President of the Generality of Catalonia, President Torra, is there no way to say « President and always say « Sir? Both the coasts, said « President of Catalonia, « President Torra? It's a question that came to my head. It's strictly parliamentary courtesy, so you don't practice. From the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, we will practice this parliamentary courtesy: we congratulate the nine councillors of the Government of this country, the Lords Meritxell Budó, the Lady Maria Ángela Vilallonga. In the same line and with the same, we appreciate the work done to Elsa Artadi and Laura Borrás, her work in front of the departments of the Presidency and Culture. Presidency, which is always a good engine, is an engine of good governance, and more in an exceptional situation of repression, imprisonment, politics and exile, exactly political prisoners, exiles– yes, sir, political prisoners and exiles–, and of recovery after the evil 155... In fact, Constellera Artadi is to be pleased with the effort she has shown at all times to push the dialogue with the Spanish government, to concretely define it, to make it safe in the table, until, President, the PSOE has come out cams help me, because it is asked something so complicated as a rapporteur, someone will be able to raise the record of what is spoken and agreed and then it is not possible to say exactly the contrary. Well, counsel Artadi, today we thank him for the work and this bet for the dialog and that this dialog also arrives in the city of Barcelona. If we look at the last few months in front of Culture, another «thank you. Although Mr Fernández finds us sorry, well, I like to say to him "thank you on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, because, with the sensitivities of Councillor Borràs, Culture has been – and for a country like ours is very important – an area of enormous sensitivity and power, a basic pillar for the country. The truth is, culture has done a lot of things and it's done very well. And the country – not this country will I imagine that they project some mitjans and that they project some matches, but the country that saw and beat – knows it. That's why I claim or demand – we demand – the work done for the government's conjunction, and that's why I'm sorry... yes, I'm sorry, we're sorry about the headline festival of the spokespersons who preceded me, because today all the headlines have come out, all those that were predictable in election campaign times, in election times. The elections are playing, an important cycle... Well, so you haven't failed the manual and you have all – all – come out: the topics of the PSOE, the PSC, the Ciutadans, the PP..., in short, of the troops, the cola of 155. And today also an attack of pre-electionism of the commons, which grabbing the manual today touched Chapter VII of the complete works of "not at all, manual which, for what I see, is also the services of the UPC. Certainly, on the subject that the CUP has put on the table of debate, the arrest of Laura, the temporary arrest is on a prosecutor's request, the judge accedes to it and the decree. If someone decides to make it clear that the decree has been arrested by the judge and points to the government or the police, it may be either by disconnection, that it must not be the case, or by the will to go against the government. It's a big deal, because we're keeping up with it, because, please, always remember that the judicial system that's after them is exactly the same judicial system that's after them, it's the judicial system that's after them. Saying that, days ago or years ago, better said, years ago, was talking about a certain disaffection, disinterest in politics. Well, so this disaffection and this disinterest certainly stemmed from plenums like today, with actions like today's opposition, with a sterilized debate, from topics, repeated, little interesting... Predictable opposition, old arguments and spent, the song of anger, sterilized criticism of the government, criticism about it... But all this has a positive part, and it is that it has left us a certainty: the certainty that this country, president, can only be ruled by the center, is governed by the center, by the center, because it occupies political centrality. And in this country the political centrality occupies it..., we occupy it together for Catalonia and the Republican Left; it is the Government Torra that occupies the political centrality well. Therefore, the certainty is that this country alone can, it must only be governed by whom it has, by whom it demonstrates the mindset of government, the need for mindset of government. And to your opposition they have many virtues; from the outset, they respect a respectable and legitimate electorate, but today they have all shown, once more, that they are not, that they do not occupy centrality, that centrality that is necessary to govern a country. About the change of government. It's not by weakness, it's precisely because the two councillors who cease have enormous political potential, and it's necessary to rewrite it, and they're compromised with this country centrality project. And certainly the nine Councillors – the nine Councillors – have a lot of work to do, a complex job and people who are grateful, in the times of democratic recession that we live. Maybe that's why his name doesn't assume – and this is the key – a change of character from the execution, on the contrary. The Government of Catalonia maintained its character and personality and its willingness to govern, strengthened in the defense of freedoms, concretely and rigorously in day-to-day policies. The opposition has left the defence of the fundamental freedoms and rights of the people of this country, left them, derived them strictly at the hands of the Government, and the Government will not fail in the exercise of these responsibilities. This, therefore, is a strictly operative change that makes sense to the good work done and its recognition in the government. And on the sidelines of the concrete work of the government assembly, to have resolved important and reasonable health complaints, where they have resolved, at the primary assistance, where they have resolved, the agreement of the taxi sector has also been found; it was difficult, but it has also happened, the petitions of the public office have also been resolved, they have resolved, if they have followed. And then there's a strategic action, and I look especially at Councilman Puignero. The leap that has taken place in these months in the pulse of digital policies is very important. Catalunya's back before. It is very remarkable the momentum that is concrete in the deployment of optical fiber, in protecting and enhancing the strategic position that Catalonia has gained in digital creation. And that's not to be seen, that they don't want to hear it, that they don't recognize it, that they don't say it. So let them deny it. This other social policy is very important. We are attractive, the country is attractive, it is again attractive to capture and venture the new factories of the talent of the 21st century. And on the sidelines of having come out of the FLA, which we have also gone out, on the sidelines of the concreteness and the solutions from which it governs, we are convinced that Councillor Budó and Councillor Vilallonga will maintain this line and this attitude, dialectical and firm, that characterizes the government of President Tora. Because the government points to the same objectives as before, and as now, unfortunately, we see that Governor Torra will continue to defend freedom, democracy and the welfare – the welfare – of the city council of Catalonia, with an easy people's panorama, with the PSOE turned from the point of view, with the PSC that can't say that not even the three to 155 – so much good come out, at some time, in this debate, a clear wish said not, that not, that not, the 155, even though it contradicts Pedro Sánchez. In this debate we also see the difficulty of governing alone, in the sense that the PSC is Borrell, in large, and Borrell is the PSC in small; that the goat pulls up and that the People's Party, once more, will continue permanently to serve all that is going against Catalonia, that it is a trait that also identifies the will of government..., or the will of opposition, better said, of the party of Ciutadans. I ended up with a final reflection. The Government of Catalonia must occupy the centrality and the Government of Catalonia occupies the political centrality. Therefore, President Torra, forward. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.213.0	Thank you, Congressman. The groups once intervened... [[Laura Borràs and Castanyer ask to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Borràs? [[Laura Errás and Castanyer intervene without using the microphone.]] We did it at the end, as always, of the debate, Congresswoman. Now, once the intervention of the parliamentary groups and sub-groups has been completed, it is the return, again, of the President of the Generality. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.214.0	Pretty late again. I will make a few particular comments to each group and then, since some of the groups have referred to government action, I would like to, therefore, to explain to them what this government action has been about, before some criticisms that I consider absolutely unjustified and much more there. To the Ciutadans Group. The head of the opposition has spoken of weaknesses. And I think that in the contemporary history of this country there was not a fraction more colossal than yours, than the fraction of Mrs. Arrimadas. It was a truly extraordinary, magnificient failure, in the sense that it had squandered an electoral victory like no one had squandered it in this country. Not only that: he was unable to create a majority around him, to rule. And not only that: it ended up going to Madrid. Therefore, if we are to speak of the weak, as we had never seen before, we are to speak of his, of the weak. And I would also like to say, Mrs. Arrimadas, that I do not consider myself absolutely a policy that is alone, on the contrary. And I want to thank all the citizens of Catalonia, all the independence movement, from many points of view and from that transversality, for their support for the lawsuit that the prosecution has filed for disobedience, at the instigations of you, of the Ciutadans Group, let us remember. So, thank you so much for all the support shows. To Mr. Iceta, who would tell you to continue insisting that we present a question of trust or call for elections. Well, as you know, these are two of the options that I have as President of the Generality and that I will not use. You have, as opposed, and if you think you can count on the majority support of the other groups in the chamber, the opportunity to present a motion of censure. For example, you could present Mrs. Arrimadas as President of the Generalitat, if you didn't go to Madrid, of course. Or the Ciutadans Group could present it to you as President of the Generality, if it were not for the Ciutadans Group to resign you for what he said about the referendum in Catalonia. Which, of course, I would like to congratulate. That you publicly say that with 65_percent of the citizens of Catalonia we have to find a democratic solution, it seems to me that it is a step forward, that returns to old socialist postulates. You're the same in 2012, so you already made sure of it. I, for one, good. What I would really appreciate is that you don't do like Groucho Marx, that if you don't like my principles, I have other principles, and that if you think that with a 65_per_cent we really have to find a democratic solution, I defend it – I defend it. Believe me, we wouldn't agree on 65 per cent, but it seems like an important step and we're giving it all the support. But, go on, because you are present as President of the Generality you have to count on the vote of Ciutadans and the rest of the members of the chamber, but if you think you can get this majority, then go ahead. To the Grup d'En Comú Pom. You've been talking about weakening the government, the government in crisis, huh? The government of the government of the government, isn't it? You must be a very strange, very peculiar government, because we've seen it pass before the presidents of the Spanish government, imagine, right? , from this government that is in this permanent crisis. And I also let you tell him that, to talk about fortalezas, so I also have to remember him, huh? – and I wouldn't have done it if you hadn't made this intervention – that three members of your group, eight, three eight, that's practically half of your group, so they had to abandon their group because they didn't agree with their assumptions. I mean to speak of fortitude or weakness, of internal forces... Maybe – maybe – they are not the best group to remind us of it. To the friends of the CUP I want to thank their intervention, critical, naturally, but remind them that I have the same ambition as the first day, that the first day I made the investment speech, the same. And I repeat to them: if I think that at a certain time I cannot bring this country to independence I will resign. And that social rights, for me, are the engine of change republic. And then I hope that, with the relationship of government actions that I will now move them, that this is actually a government that you bet, and it does so in an absolutely determined and determined way, for social policies. To the deputy of the PP, listen'm, neither meringue nor self complaença; education, if you go education, eh? And, therefore, if you are not used to these terms of parliamentary courtesy and a certain education, allow me to tell you that his problem is more quickly. And I'm sure after Councilwoman Borràs, who's been disappointed, then she'll tell him what you have to say, too, I suppose with a smile. I also remind you of the same: if you believe that this is a weak government and that there is an alternative majority, then forward, eh? Surely you, your four deputies, will be decided to form an alternative majority, probably with a plan of government in which you can agree with Citizens and with commons. And, therefore, I encourage them to pull this project forward. On the other hand, to the friends of the Republic Group and of Juntes for Catalonia, thank you for your support to this Government, because you prove that there is this majority; you do prove, with your support, that this Government has a plan of government and that we will push it forward. Because we have your daily support. And I, seeing that you, therefore, sadly, have entered into the background of the debate, that you were trying to value the new Councillor of Presidency, the new Councillor of Culture, the cultural policies and the policies of the Presidency, and have taken advantage of this debate – I understand, huh? , we are in the electoral period– and therefore you have wanted to bring this debate to other terms, so you will allow me to make them a report of all the government actions, succinct, that we have carried forward throughout all these already de_mesos and fall out of this government so weak, I insist, that you have seen two governments of the Spanish State pass and that you will be here ruling because you do not govern and govern. In terms of equality, we have invested 32 million euros this year to eradicate male-based rapes, in the framework of the Second Comprehensive Intervention Programme, which includes more than one hundred actions. We have presented the Protocol on Security against Sexual Violence in the middle of the night, in a work of collaboration between the Catalan Institute of the Donation and the Interior. The Generalitat plans to train more than thirteen thousand people to fight sexual violence in the middle of the night. The Catalan Observers for Justice in Male Violence, who will examine the judicial response and penal measures for male violence, have set themselves in motion. A guide to incorporating the gender perspective into public contracts has been approved to promote the gender perspective in public contracts. In the area of local governments, bilateral meetings were held with Barcelona, the Hospitallet and the Aran, and in this case a financing agreement was reached, as you know, and a compromise to close a stable financing system before the year ended. We have held a session of the government executed to the Aran, ratifying the syndic's financing agreement for a valid five-year term, which gives an estabilitate as it had not held until now to the General Council. There was an act, the first act, of the new eve of the Penedès, which applied to all mayors of the Lower and Upper Penedès, the Garraf and the Anoia, the presidents of the district councils and the platform for the future Penedès, and the government, you know, was committed to its deployment. In the field of sports, the Olympic office of the project Pirineus - Barcelona for the Olympic and Paralympic Games of Winter of the year 2030 has been set aside. It has been determined that the direction of the office falls to the delegated commission, made up of members of the table, and the technical work will be done by Railways of the Generality. The Spanish Generality and the Spanish Olympic Committee had rejected the favourable report of the International Olympic Committee. In the field of public finances, it closed in 2018 with a temporary deficit of 0.38_per_cent, 833_million euros, complementing the goal of estabilitate for the second year resulting. The Government has exposed the pre-project assumptions for 2019 in full transparency; the current expenditure of the departments responsible for the public health services exceeds the pre-crisis levels, and it incorporates for the first time a set of fifty-two indicators of welfare and social progress. The contingency plan is being prepared to ensure the provision of public health services in Catalonia during the period of presuppositional extension. A salary increase of 2.75_per_cent was agreed for 2019 for the workers and workers of the Generality, and an agreement was reached with the unions for the return of the external payments to the public workers. In the area of global overseas and reptiles, the deployment of the government delegations abroad, which took place on 155, re-opened the government delegations to the United Kingdom and Ireland, Germany, Italy, France, Switzerland and the United States of America, and approved a second phase with the creation or re-opening of those in Portugal, Lebanon – Beirut –, Sweden – Stockholm –, Central and Eastern Europe, Baltic Countries. The process of preparing the 2030 National Agenda Plan for Sustainable Development has been reactivated. Catalonia has declared safe port, and created a working group to gather rescue ships to the Mediterranean. The Annual Development Cooperation Plan has been approved for 2018 – EUR 32 million – and the Development Cooperation Plan 2019-2022 has been developed. In the area of security, the full integration of the Mosso d'Esquadra into the Centre for Intelligence against Terrorism and Organized Crime, the CITCO, has taken place; at the same time, it is also working in the best of the procedures of the Mosso d'Esquadra body before a terrorist storm and in the consolidation of the protocol of detection of Islamist radicalization. The Ubiq police device has been put in place to increase security in the district of Ciutat Vella de Barcelona; it supposes an increase in preventive and uniformed patrolling in those areas with special incidence of robberies and drug trafficking. The decree authorizing the creation of 750 seats in the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and 250 seats in the Cos de Bombers of the Generalitat de Catalunya was approved when it had been six years since it had been convened. In the field of education, the Pact against School Segregation was signed, promoted by the Greuges Syndicate jointly with the Department of Education; the student admission decree was amended to promote equality in the access of the education system; the governing committee of the vocational training and qualification system was set aside, a new model of dual vocational training was set aside for the 2019-2020 course, a total of 5.005 places of teaching cos - 5,000 new places of teaching cos were called up. In the matter of health, the result of the agreement with the professionals – they must remember that there was a gap that we knew, therefore, to put up – has been granted almost 100_million additional euros for primary care and to improve the conditions of the professionals. They have been allocated about 70_millions for the attention to mental health of the child and youth population in 2018: an increase of 78_per_cent since 2011 that is part of the Pla director of mental health and addictions 2017-2019. The endometriosis care model has been created in Catalonia, and the pregnancy follow-up protocol has been developed in Catalonia to strengthen the gender vision in the field of health. The new CAP was inaugurated at the Mine, a pioneer in the new strategy of primary care and community health, with an inversion of 9_million euros, and the construction of the new CAP Santa Eulàlia at the Hospitallet de Llobregat began, more than, as you know, the works of the new hospital of Viladecans, with an inversion of 61_million euros, an action that will allow triple the current surface of the center. In the habitat area, the Decree-Law on Urgent Measures to Improve Access to Habitat has been approved. The legislation seeks a threefold objective: to address the lack of public protection habitats to logue, to have more instruments to combat emergency situations and denunciations, and to promote a moderation in the price of logging free habitats. The Catalan Institute of Finance and the Agency of the Housing of Catalonia agreed, in the first measure of the Executive Council, to allocate 250_million euros to the construction and purchase of housing of social loguer. The new line 10 South of the Barcelona metro has been inaugurated, with the nine stations of Foneria and Foc, which give metro coverage to the barrel of Marina de Barcelona, and is serving the new station of Provençana of the line 10 South of the metro to the Hospitallet. The Natural Heritage Strategy and Biodiversity of Catalonia has been approved, a document that will mark government action in this area until 2030. The law has been approved for the creation of the new public water supply network of the Ter-Llobregat system, the Ter-Llobregat Water Supply Ens. In cultural matters, the cross-cutting of culture has been strengthened, with the celebration of a specific Executive Council of the cross-cutting of the cultural policies of the Government. There are 208 transversal performances on the line. The Council of the Cultural Community was formed together with the deputies of Barcelona, Girona, Lleida and Tarragona, and a new edition of the campaign was held « Fas six years ago, sort a book, where the participation of the children – up to more than 35,000 children – and bookshops is growing. In the field of justice, it has been working on the draft comprehensive democratic law of Catalonia to guarantee the principles of transitional justice promoted for the United Nations, that is, the right to the truth, justice and reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. The remains of the first four victims identified with the genetic identification program have been handed over to the respective families. He is working on the Advance Bill to promote mediation in family conflicts. The draft law amending the fourth book of the Civil Code of Catalonia has been approved to allow people with sensory disabilities to make wills without witnesses. In the field of work, social and family matters, the impetus of the National Pact for Persons with Disabilities has been announced. The pact – which is personally one of my priorities – must be a tool that addresses, from the legislative point of view, assumptions and public policies, all the challenges that citizens have with disabilities, because this is a country where all citizens have the same right. 7_Millions_i_mig have increased the generality's propensity for special work centres, to reach 42_Millions_i_mig, to minimize the rise in minimum wage, and has reached an agreement with Cocarmi to strengthen the employment policies of people with disabilities. The first Catalan strategy for the gathering and inclusion of young migrants alone has been presented, and an additional 10_million_i_mig euros have been allocated to attend to the massive arrival of these young people. We remember that the year 2018 came to more than 3,500; only in what we wear of year, did not arrive 400. It is driving the new Accessibility Code of Catalonia. 42_million– almost 43 – have been allocated to guaranteed income from citizenship, which already has more than 120,000 beneficiaries, and the draft new decree regulating guaranteed income from citizenship has been presented, which extends the profile of beneficiaries to include victims of male violence and modifies the requirements to make it compatible with other aids and part-time contracts. And the local world has been endowed with 230_million euros in terms of social services and equality policies through social services program contracts. For the economic activity: until the third quarter of 2018 – after the data available – the Catalan Institute of Finance has financed 1,097 enterprises, for import of more than 375_million euros. New funding lines have been created for green economy projects and housing for social loguers, and 4_million_i_mig of venture capital has been invested in five enterprises. The Tourism Marketing Board and the Strategic Tourism Board have been presented for the period 2018-2022, drafting the law that will regulate the areas of urban economic promotion, to promote trade to our cities from the hands of the assemblies and associations that represent them. Trade missions have taken place in Argentina, the United States, Ghana and Lakes, Hong Kong, Amsterdam and South Korea. The Catalonia Exponential initiative has been created to apply Silicon Valley innovation to Catalan companies. In the field of knowledge, the National Covenant for the Society of Knowledge is being drafted. The plenary and the permanent table have been formed, and it is expected that the final proposal of the pact, which will define twenty country objectives, will be drawn up in December: as we were able to lead the Industrial Revolution, as we were able to do the Pla decentralisation of Catalan universities, we now have to lead the new stage of the knowledge revolution. 149 positions of research staff have been called at Pla Serra Húnter, 98 projects of industrial doctorate in march and the third call of the program « Knowledge industry, endowed with 3_million_i_mig d'euros. In the field of digital policies, priority has been given to completing the deployment of the public optical fibre network, which will connect all the capitals of the region by 2020, and bringing the wide band to all the municipalities of more than fifty inhabitants by 2023. Because this country needs communications: it needs terrestrial communications and it needs digital communications. If we want to have a balanced and sustainable country, that's what we're asking most now: to bet on optical fiber is to bet on territorial balance and social cohesion. The Generality and the four deputies have signed the National Commitment for the Deployment of Optical Fibre. The Government has approved the 5G Strategy of Catalonia, which provides for the deployment of the country's next generation of mobile telephony. The Mobile World Congress, the most important technological event in the world, was celebrated with us remember: it was the best of history. And the Smart City Expo World Congress, the most important piece of the smart city sector, was collected. In the field of agriculture, rowing, fishing and feeding, the new fishing model of Catalonia has been promoted. Catalonia's Maritime Strategy was approved, in 2030, and the new Professional Fisheries Governance Decree, which allowed joint management with the sector. It has granted itself to the sector..., in order to defend a Catalan model of the new CAP 2021-2027 before the State, which takes into account the regionalization of foundations and strategic plans at territorial level; in order to be able to manage aid more effectively, Catalonia needs to be able to define its own agricultural policies. And I would also like to recall a compromise, as much of the councilwoman as I do, that it is fighting against depopulation in Catalonia. We do not want to have some beautiful but empty mountains; we want a full and rich country, and rich in life. This list could be unmatched. In June, outside of the election period, the government will take stock of government action, and there they will be able to prove once more that we have been focused on the best of public services and on covering the needs of all citizens, because not one of these actions that I have reported to them – not one – was directed either to independenceists or to non-independenceists, but to the 7_million_i_mig of futures. But let me also go on detailing the standards that we have adopted, because in order to get all these actions taken, a normal development was required. We have approved twenty standards with law rank: thirteen decrees of law and seven bills of law. The later, yesterday, our decree law, vice president, by import of 813_million euros, which serves to give guarantee to the commitments that we have entered into with our public servers. We have also approved nine preliminary memoranda as the initial point for the development of the preliminary draft law. Therefore, this is a government that governs, it is a government that makes decisions, that takes them every day, and that takes them republicanly. And it does so with a determined style, which is working as hard as possible to achieve great country agreements, based on consensus and dialogue. They'll find us here all the time. Not in the destruction of the consensus and the dialog, no: in the construction of the consensus and the dialog. In positivizing, in routing this country forward. Because this is the way we do politics that we like and where we feel comfortable. And I'll give you a few examples: we reached an agreement on a responsible debate on immigration and against racism and xenophobia. Let us congratulate ourselves - in - spite of some comments that have been heard today. Only a few days ago, Parliament was under the heading of the Pact against School Segregation, promoted by the Syndicate and the Department of Education. He is working on the momentum of the National Disability Pact, as he said before. The National Covenant for the Society of Knowledge, as I have mentioned, and also the National Pact for the Eradication of Masclist Violence, has come to an end. And if we still lower the focus and limit ourselves to thinking what this government has done in the last fifteen days, then the show that this government governs we held yesterday with approval from the government of the first of the measures that form part of the contingency plan, for which, naturally, yes, we trust to have the support of this chamber, that it is a law decree for the granting of the credit supplement – already stated before – of 813_million euros, with the will to cover the staff expenditure generated in the two exercises. But what else have we done these 15 days? Within the social sphere, we have approved the Law on Urgent Measures to Improve Access to Housing. We have set aside EUR 20 million for contracts with entities that promote integration and social inclusion. The committee was created to assess and follow up on the application of guaranteed citizenship income. We've started the Advance Travel Bill processes in vehicles up to nine places. We have disembarked – we have disembarked – the location of CAP Raval Nord thanks to the offer of the Barcelona City Council – and I want to make this public. We have set aside the pre-school enrolment of the 2019-2020 course with our access criteria: 40,357 children's education groups, primary school and ESO, and we 25 school institutes, 6 secondary schools and 2 specific vocational training institutes. We have opened pre-registrations at sixty-three work camps for 14-year-olds to nineteen-year-olds this summer. In the economic sphere, Constable Chacón travelled to Germany with a business delegation to participate in the most important industry world 4.0 and open up new trading opportunities. Counselor Puignero has travelled to Tokyo to close the locks of an agreement that allows the landing of the Japanese multinational NTT Data in Barcelona with a project ambition of an artificial intelligence center. EUR 11_million has been allocated to various lines of agri-environmental aid corresponding to the year 2018, more than EUR 1_million has been called for aid to carry out actions for migration and adaptation to climate change and studies on the carbon footprint, and EUR 300,000, also, against other pests that hit us in the agricultural world. Institutional scope: We have activated various tools to keep businesses and citizens informed about the effects of Brexit, with a portal intended exclusively for this purpose. We have renewed our commitment to the Four Motors for Europe. And we have also approved a cooperation agreement with Cuba in the field of sanitation. This is a government that rules, that does it every day, that does it with the same ambition that we started with. I insist, if you think you have an alternative majority, it is very legitimate: you can file a motion of censure with a candidate who represents you to all those who believe that things will change. We'll still be working. We will continue to work with the same ambition, because we count on this 49 percent of the members of this chamber who support us and because we know that the decrees we have to carry will also be approved of this chamber. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.215.0	Thank you, President. Then, one time the president spoke, it was the return, again, of parliamentary groups and sub-groups. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, the deputy inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.216.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Torra, you clash over and over again with the reality of Catalans. Before, the spokesman for Junts per Catalunya, Mr... [[Funnel veils]] Pujol – forgive me, forgive me – Mr Pujol... By the way, I do not think it is disrespectful to call for the name, « Mr Pujol... You call me « Mrs Arrimadas ; you do not call me« Madam Leader of the Opposition, which is what I am, but to me it does not seem to me that it is disrespectful. [[Widow's remorse.]] It seems to me to call it "sir...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.217.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.218.0	Take it easy if you don't mind. I think I call Mr Torra, Mr Pujol, Mrs Arrimadas..., to me it seems a very correct deal, but, well, I don't know if you have the level with the others very high, when you then call us « glue... ; you called us « glue and I don't know what« 155, « the glue of 155. Does it seem more respectful to you to call it a glue of not knowing what Mr. Torra? Okay. Mr Torra, your spokesman has said that health problems, educational problems have been solved. I will give you a recognition, which I believe few people or parties since the opposition do, and we, who are a sensible party, do: governing is very difficult and there are many social needs in Catalonia to attend to, I understand it perfectly. We are 7_million_and_average Catalans, with different social, territorial needs. It is clear that a government has to face difficult situations, and more, when it is broken by the previous mismanagement of 77,000_million_euros of debt. But that you do not prioritize, that you pass Olympically from the needs of Catalans is something obvious. Do you know who says so too? Even the CEO, who you do; that CEO who below..., always represents Citizens below what we later take out in the seats, in the polls..., not in the polls, but in the polls; that CEO who always says that Republican Left is going to win the elections, right, Mr. Sabrià? And, for the time being, in forty years of democracy, not once, huh? , in the autonomic elections; that CEO who, when he makes the samples, always draws less voters from constitutionalist parties than he really has Catalonia; that CEO says that 53_per_cent of Catalans considers that you do not know how to solve the social problems of Catalans. It is said by your own CEO, who always gives you reason, who is always cooked to make it work for you. Clearly, you are far from social needs. It's just that, no matter how much they try to deny it, they don't even convince their own people. Yours have not voted for you to manage social problems. If you already know; the social majority of Catalans know that you cannot manage social problems. Some have voted to make them independent, and they will not do so either. You are going to be the government of failure, of the failure of all Catalans, which is what you still do not understand. You have broken records of social data that are tremendous for Catalans, for all, for voters of independenceist parties and for voters of non-independenceist parties. But as long as you cut, as long as you leave the public coffers, then, in very bad condition, after a mismanagement, as long as you clear the problems of the Catalans, then reports come out that give us the reason, saying that you spend millions of euros on separatist propaganda, like this one that has just been published, from the Court of Auditors, but, come on, it's one more, it's one more – it's one more – if anything; hundreds of millions of euros on separatist propaganda, while you cut in on the important. That's right, Mr. Adam Majó, that anti-system that lives on the system very well, charging €90_000, huh? – the anti-systems, what good do they live, eh? , the anti-system –, ninety_ thousand_euros. There is also another EUR 112,000, which I love to remember, EUR 112,000. You treat your procedural friends very well and treat Catalan families very badly. And that was your choice. That is why, in the social sphere, you are a failure. Then, in the area of representativeness and respect for all Catalans, you are a failure, because you repeatedly violate our rights. We have to go and defend the justice system, because not even the Spanish government of the PP and PSOE has defended us all these years. The theme of symbols is very significant, because we are right by the judges. But, when we depend on the protection of the Spanish government of the PP and the PSOE, they have always looked elsewhere. But you are also a failure in your obsession with independence. Don't you realize that you won't be able to stretch the gum any more? His problem is time. What are you going to tell your voters in other elections? What are you going to tell them? What will you promise them? Yours, not ours anymore, who already know how they treat you and what they do with them. What will they promise you in terms of independence? Can you stop..., stop this farce, that you are violating our rights for nothing? But, of course, you are guilty of what has happened. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] But there are also other responsible...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.219.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.220.0	...that are the Government of Spain of the PP and PSOE.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.221.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.222.0	That's why here will rule Citizens, one day, in a very different way than you have done and that's why Citizens will rule in Spain, one day, in a very different way than the PP and PSOE have done. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.223.0	On behalf of the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for Progress, Mr Miquel Iceta has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.224.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Many honorable President of the Government of Catalonia, Miri, I do not accept that I say that I change principles according to convenience. He told me once that he gave cynicism in lowering the stairs. If the word ‘respects' is put in your mouth, you can practice it first. [[Greetings.]] And, as you mentioned with some political positions, I have no problem repeating them. Look, I'm not in favour of independence, and you know it. I also do not believe that a reference to independence is a solution, and less so with a society divided by half. And I don't think the right of self-determination – the one that recognizes United Nations, I don't refer to others – is applying to Catalonia. My goal, indeed, is to prevent the growth of independence support, but I recognize that this task is better for you than anyone else, because empty gestures, incomplete promises and poor management are at these times the most important erosion factor of the independence project. You have made here a series of statements that you wanted to remember, I suppose, the old telephone list of President Pujol. Miri, nothing you've said denies any of our criticisms. Therefore, from the point of view of the quality of the debate, I must say that it is quite deficient. Look, you're the most responsible of the government we Catalans have had since 1980, except for the last quarter of the government presided over by Carles Puigdemont. And you will say, "Well, of course, that's what you say. No, no, no; this responds to the results of the latest barometer of the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinio de la Generalitat de Catalunya, the President's lowest appreciation in the second barometer of the mandate: Carles Puigdemont, 5.1; José Montilla, 5.4; Artur Mas, 5.8; you, 4.3. So... And they didn't ask me on this one, but, anyway, it's an inquiry. It's you who said they don't have a majority. It's you who don't want to bring the assumptions to the chamber. Actually, you, now, are doing an innovation, which is talking about 49_per_cent majorities. Lucky it's not a child's schedule and they shouldn't be interrupting nobody's education process. Listen to me, you don't have a majority. Now, you're right – well, you can have many, but one that I'm giving you now –: there's no majority government, that's what you've said, and there's no majority alternative. Actually, President, you're right here. But this does to you the only one responsible for the decision on the continuity of the Government, because, if there is no majority to replace it and you have no majority to rule, the only one who can make the decision to call elections or the decision to raise a question of trust... It is true, there is no third, that is not in the law, but it is well Catalan: to make the living. You have the chance to make a living. And I hope it's not considered disrespectful; it's an expression. [[Rialles.]] I'm making a living. Now, I have to ask you, listen to me, as you are solely responsible, given that we are in this situation of lack of majority government and lack of an alternative majority, you are at the height of your responsibility. You have all the right to say, "Let's try to keep on governing, because we think we're making a good government. Well, think about it. Now, fulfill your responsibilities, govern. And governance means making decisions and, in this case, bringing to the chamber the most important instrument of government action, which is the premise. If they don't win or formally approve of it in the government! Don't you see that this is a show that spoils our institutional image? It undermines our self-government. Perhaps, to you, it gives them comfort – neither, eh? I don't think so either, but maybe – but in any case, it's not good for the country. And, therefore, I asked him what I asked for at the end of my intervention. You should prove – that, from our point of view, you have not done it – that you know where you are going, that you have felt you continue to work the way you are doing, that you are able to provide certain people where there are uncertainties, that you are able to prevent concerns and needs from engulfing Catalan politics and that inopportunity is replaced by effective and determined government action. I think it's our obligation to ask, but above all it's the right of Catalans and Catalans to hold it. And we're talking today, and tomorrow the newspapers will talk about what's going on, and it'll be days and days and there'll be no king. But the Catalans and their problems, the Catalans and their problems will follow where they are. And to have a government able to reduce the waiting lists to not hold it is a world of difference. And, President, I must remind you, you are not the most responsible. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.225.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is the turn of the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.226.0	Yes, thank you, President. President, I thought we were wearing a year's term, but, listening to you, we seem to have fifteen days or forty-four hours. It's been pretty dazzling to me. And he's asking for a favor, too; that's the second I'm asking him today. Before I asked him to call elections, he already told me no, and now he asks him to please not to take the Covenant against the segregation of the syndic, because the syndic promoted it, nor the act of the dilluns against racism, because, moreover, one of the things we meant was not to use it electorally. I don't know whether you read it or not, but the point is that you're not trying to get close to one thing or the other. [[Greetings.]] That's what I'm saying. And then you've done a whole clipping that's supposed to have been done the last 15 days, and I've done it before... but then you've wanted to focus on the fifteen days, and I've done it at the control session, and I've reminded you of the news from the last week, four news from the last week. The first: the third sector gives an alert because the social services are in a critical situation. What have you done? The waiting lists for public health have disappeared from what you are in the government. What have you done? Half a hundred experts have joined forces to denounce the lack of action of the Catalan Government in the face of the effects of climate change. What have you done? And the fourth: it turns out that the Mossos go, deny a family with minors to Manresa with violence, and what have you done? That's his balance, and that's ours and that of the citizenry that's patenting his government and his inaction. That said, you could now also re-draw another list of incompliments, inactions, responsibilities, such as, for example, that you still do not set a euro in the financing of the Bressol schools. You have a debt with the joints that is brutal. As I said, the toilet waiting lists are in a desperate situation. Dependency waiting lists are the worst in the whole state. You have been given a decree of habitation that is a disgrace. The guaranteed income of citizenship is stuck, much as you say. But, besides, it's no use for us to get out of this whole block opposition, with all our differences, to tell you what's not doing and that this government doesn't rule, because you don't listen, for one hear it comes in and for the other it comes out, and only want photos, photos, photos and more photos, and peaks, and tales, but after forming, not a gram. And social action is joined by gangs on the national issue, where disorientation is brutal. All day long, everything is gesticulation, empty rhetoric, today it turns out that the unilateral declaration of independence is effective, tomorrow we will see it; today it turns out that we live in a republic, tomorrow we will see it; today we will hear it, tomorrow we will see it. That's right – that's right – to blame the rest of what you don't do, that's for sure: that's what they do today, tomorrow and all the days of the week. So we ask you to do them the favor of clarifying yourself. You're the lords of the government. I no longer know whether to say "de-governance" or "de-governance", as you prefer. I believe that Catalonia, I am convinced that Catalonia needs much more, Catalonia deserves much more, Catalonia needs a strong government, a government that governments, a government that allows us to advance in social rights and also in democratic rights before the triple crisis that we are experiencing, which is a social, democratic and institutional crisis. You're not doing it, so don't let them. And I think it's democratic salvation that you call elections and that Catalonia can decide again who it wants the government to be. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.227.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.228.0	President, this isn't about names, it's about projects. It's not as simple as if there are two councillors leaving and two coming, it's about projects. This wasn't going to wear it out for you, we're not doing it from this group; it's about projects. But, look, when you talk to us about projects, we remember what he presented in this faristol, and what he presented was very clear, is: from restitution to the Constitution. And what this group and the assembly of the chamber have seen all these months is that there has been no restitution, more quickly on the contrary: flatten yourself before the repressive intervention of the Spanish State, which even wondered who was or who was not a deputy in this Parliament. And, of course, Mr. President, with all due respect, you or your government in this chamber do not have a 49_per_cent – there is a reference in your intervention. Here there is almost a 49_percent of forces or independent representation, but not your government. Maybe you should listen more to what we're going to say to each of the cliffs. [[some applause]] Let's make it clear that you obviously can't find your government, our support. Still, we will always keep what we have done: all the solidarity before the repression of the Spanish State; with you too, I would just miss, I feel the President of the Generality of Catalonia. What's your government doing? What's the answer she gives? So miri: particular accusation with regard to the students of the University of Girona, of the feminist companies of Sant Cugat, of the lawsuits of the 30th generation, of the vaguists of 21-M and 14-N. This is not the solidarity they would need before repression. And he asked us directly – and we say it with the utmost respect to Mr Pujol, representing a parliamentary group – that we inform ourselves – and we want to say it with all respect – that we inform ourselves about an arrest, and you speak of a lady who is said to be Laura, when we have spoken of a lady who is said to be Rut and not even place the name well. But, look, we're also telling you something else: this lady, Ruth, didn't go alone before the court that granted pre-trial detention, she was brought in for the squadron moves that made her arrest. And you know why? Because this government before the extreme right is flowing, very flowing, very permissive, and before the political dissent is repressive. And we are of the yes; of the yes for the construction of the Catalan Republic; of the yes, but not to flatten ourselves, and of the yes to be very clear that for this construction of the Catalan Republic we have to make a process of building social rights, economic rights, political rights. And in these social rights what can't be given is what we are living in this country: poorly managed guaranteed income, a public sanitation that doesn't hold up and a reality in which even a family can't guarantee that they can go to a public teaching center in their bar. This is the reality that we defend. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.229.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.230.0	Thank you very much, President. Look, this reply intervention, I suppose with the will to impact – I must tell you that it has achieved it quite modestly – has been successful, so it has launched an endless list of small actions..., that obviously the Generalitat of Catalonia has excellent workers who make the machinery, although with great difficulties due to the lack of political direction, well, it is doing some things. You have explained them, you have been listed, you have just missed explaining your own agenda as government action. But I think that in these things it is convenient to be rigorous, and to value your government action has come to my head: why don't we compare it with your government plan? I think it's an interesting exercise. I will list five points from your governance plan, because then you can understand, from very different positions, the discourse that the CUP has made. Point number 1– I tell you five points –, return to Puigdemont; I don't think they carry it very well. Two, to recover intact the laws suspended by the Constitutional Court; they do not carry it very well either, do they not? , are adapting them to the ruling of the Constitution, which is different. Three, approve the 2019 budgets – he says, they put it in writing –; nor do they carry it very well. The fourth, full implementation of the republic – they say it textually –; in this, as was said earlier, they need to improve. And fifth, finally, the beginning of the drafting of the Catalan Constitution through a constituent social civic forum; this already..., they also have it quite complex, quite bad. Of course, you have swindled the CUP – you have swindled the CUP – and therefore lost the parliamentary majority, because you have swindled the CUP. And since they don't want to recognize that they've scammed the CUP and don't want to change the type of strategy, we're in the worst possible situation, which is in limbo. And in limbo you are situated, of absolute inaction. The problem is that this is seriously eroding the Catalan institutions that you claim to love, and also the government action of that government that you claim to want to push. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.231.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Republican Parliamentary Group, is the return of Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.232.0	Thank you, President. Well, I'm taking a very short nap. To Ciutadans, tell them to try and always try to talk about "we and you, good and bad Catalans, caves and taronges..., they want to make good Aznar's theory, to break us before we let ourselves decide. But before that they will always find us, always and always. We're clear that we're a people's only, and we're not moving out of here. We always work for everyone, to build a freer society, to build a fairer society. We have social assumptions, we have assumptions that devote three to four euros to social measures, but this is the same; the question here is to cry out "squeezy and down. Therefore, we both have luck; we will continue to work always for everyone. [[Greetings.]] Certainly, a short tip on the CEO. Certainly, he said that he was winning Republican Left, but he also said something very important, directed by an independentist of these ailing, ailing, ailing: he said that he would not sum up independence and that we would not win. And in the worst of situations, in the worst of times, it's true, the CEO was wrong and we won the ballots again some other time. [[Greetings.]] I to Mr. Iceta. Mr. Iceta does numbers on majorities, but the majorities, Mr. Iceta, are in the polls and not the jutjats. Last week, for a moment and a lot of time for us, it seemed to us that they wanted to go back to politics and, therefore, seemed to be coming back to 2013, and I read them a proposal that hinders you on March 2013, which said: "The Catalonian Parliament urges the Government to start a dialogue with the Government of the State to make possible the holding of a consultation with the citizens of Catalonia on its future policy, 2013, so far and so close, or so close and so far. We do not share the form of the proposal – the president said so too – but yes the fund: back to politics that is politics. We ask them a very simple thing: I fight to win elections and to be able to rule; they don't make the courts serve either to win them or to summon them. Llutin, as they did in 2013, because Catalans can vote. And they fight to win the no, instead of participating in repression against their political rivals; they don't intend to win the jutjats where they don't win the ballot box. And to the CUP and to the common, simple, simple and short: in times of crisis, in times of difficulty, repression, imprisonment, exile, it should be easier to find us; it is too difficult. We should share struggles and objectives, as well as democratic and social objectives, from difference, of course, but also with greater and greater will. And we find it missing, we find it lacking proposals and willingness to agree. Because we didn't miss it, we didn't miss it either. Because in the yes to social rights and in the yes to build a new country we will always find ourselves there, but we must find among all ways to help us to do so, and more in the current framework of repression in which we find ourselves. And I only end up saying that we never give up our struggle to give the view to the citizenry, that we persist and persist in the objective and that the objective is as simple as that this country freely decides its future, because it is the best way to guarantee its political and social rights. And what we're going to do again: we're going back to exercising our rights, we're going back and we're going to win again. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.233.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.234.0	Well, good morning again, ladies and gentlemen, President. There is one thing I have not just heard: you were asked to work as a government, rigor, detailed explanation of everything that has been done; when he has taken over and started to detail strictly, precisely, everything that has been done by the government, or that is being done by the government, or that is being promoted by the government, he has not yet enjoyed it either. I don't understand why he doesn't like it when he does what he's asked to do; he's one of the holy mysteries of this room of plenary, of this hemiscle. In any case, there, passing different interventions, Mr Fernández, I am still with the Mediterranean Corridor before, I have not yet repeated myself. You were defending a Mediterranean corridor that was five hundred miles north of the Mediterranean, and today you have made us a class of railway trigonometry with which the truth is that we have stood. On this little trick of "doesn't go very well, I see it very comfortable with others doing the work that you can't win, impose on the ballot boxes. I have the feeling that neither respect for democracy, nor respect for voters, nor respect for the outcome of 21 December, nor respect for the ballot boxes are part of their government program. You, Mr. Fernández, are doing very well, indeed, you are doing very well that Marchena i Llarena – the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court – do you the job that you are not able to get and do at the polls. On Mrs. Arrimadas, I must say that the theme of "collage and troops," I say with all respect and friendship of the world, is an expression that I have always served and that has no negative connotation. In any case, I can't say 'President' because it's not 'President'; on the other hand, Mr. Torra, President Torra, is the President of the Government of Catalonia, and it seems to me that I wouldn't be so bad as to say it. [[Greetings.]] Because you, in strict cordiality, in strict parliamentary cordiality, when you are at the Congress of Madrid, therefore, the President of Spain always says "President". Why does the President of Spain say that he is president, and why is there no way that the President of Catalonia goes beyond the category of lord? [[Greetings.]] That being a lord or a lord is also a virtue, I never lose it; but anyway you are the president of Catalonia. On the intervention of Mrs. Arrimadas there is a subject that bothers me very much. There is neither our nor yours – there is neither our nor yours. There are only a few citizens, and they are citizens of Catalonia, and the people of Catalonia, there is Catalonia. And, therefore, we will not enter into the game of one or the other: no, there are people who vote differently, there are people who think differently, there are people who are to be respected who think differently, but in any case neither the ones, nor the others, nor those beyond. More things. Mr. Iceta, before I asked you, or the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, to see if we can find a moment at this plenary session, today or tomorrow, that you are leaving someone from the Socialists' Party and saying: "Ecculti'm, that we have no intention of reapplying 155, that we are almost obliged to do so, because they ask us at interviews and then it is difficult to get out of it, but that it does not form part of our DNA, 155. And at the moment – and at the moment – it seemed to me that in his intervention there was no such restrictive negative at 155. It would be nice, it would be a point of tranquillity that you might say no to 155. And about the nine elections you ask for, Mr. Iceta, a few new elections to do what, for the Socialist Party? In order not to respect the election result, as did the people of Ciutadans, as did the People's Party, as did the tripartite of 155? Don't respect the fact that there are some elected deputies who today can't be held in this chamber? Are we going back to making choices to keep the prison..., the prison and the shameful exile that defeats democracy in this country? Do we have to make choices to repeat the shame, the shame of not respecting the result of what the Catalans decided at the polls? I'd also like an answer in that sense. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm done. President, centrality, centrality and centrality. And, above all, let us never abandon – and we are not doing this – this lane of the centrality of 80_per_cent, of the agreement of 80_per_cent, of this 80_per_cent of adherence to reform, to the fact of being able to vote, to the fact of being able to resolve with a reference the future of Catalonia, not to repression, yes to freedom...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.235.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.236.0	...and, obviously, not to the monarchy. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.237.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Miquel Iceta and Llorens ask to speak.]] One_second, Mr. Iceta. I had asked for the word, for allusions, Mrs. Borrás. Now is the time, and then I'll give it to you. Mrs. Borràs, when you want to, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.238.0	Yes; President, thank you. I wanted to use my word for allusions. I thank Mrs. Albiach very much for the hug she gave me. I'd also appreciate it if you didn't buy the mind mark when you said that I went to Madrid to block; because what blocks is the prison, and what blocks is the existence of prison and exile. I, if any, will go to Madrid to unblock democracy. And there I'd like to find you and all the Democrats. And to Mr. Fernández I will only answer with El Quixote: "Everyone is born as God did to him. And sometimes even worse. Thank you. [[Give me the applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.239.0	Mr. Iceta, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.240.0	As if Mr. Pujol asked me a very specific question, I want... well, two. One, I take strictly, solemnly, before the chamber, that we will never apply Article 155 if we do not give the forecasts of this article, that is that there is someone who skips the law and the Constitution and pretends to deny the law of gravity. And, two, don't tell us that we don't accept the results. If there are Members of the Republican Group who can vote and there are Members of the Junts Group for Catalonia who cannot vote, think why it is, it has nothing to do with our decision, but with yours. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.241.0	Thank you, Congressman. Once the debate is over, we suspend the plenary. Before, please, I am listening for a moment – I am listening for a moment – that we are proposing an alteration of the order of the day called for by the Government, according to Rule 83.3 of the Rules, in relation to the fact that the eighth point of the order of the day, is to say, the inquiry to the Government on the recovery of the great consensus to make Catalonia advance, can be substantial after point 9, and that point 13, in relation to the inquiry on the Government's visit regarding the Catalan participation in colonialism and slavery, is substantial after point 14. Therefore, the order of the interrogations for tomorrow said would be: 9, 8, 10, 11, 12, 14 and 13. Can this change be approved for absenteeism? Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right, so let's suspend the Ple to three-quarters of the late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.242.0	Well, good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Decree Ilei 6/2019, of March 19, on the restoration of the variable productivity complement of the statutory staff of the Institut Català de la Salut]] [[203-00014/12]] [[The next item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 6/2019 of March 19, on the restoration of the variable productivity complement of the statutory staff of the Institut Català de la Salut.]] [[According to Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Councillor of Health will intervene first to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated.]] [[So, he'll advise, whenever he wants. (Whispering)]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.243.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Deputies, deputies, as I said this morning...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.244.0	Deputies, deputies, please, silence, that we have started the session, in case they have not joined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.245.0	Very well; it always costs, at the first hour of late, but we are here today in an important, relevant debate, in which I am proud to be able to come here to Parliament to explain it and to put it in consideration of the Members and Members. I said that this morning, we have put professionals as a priority of this legislature. Our public health system is very good and powerful because it is based above all on the knowledge and orientation of these professionals in the service of people. A system that puts people in the centre must also keep the professionals in the front. Such a large and complex system requires tools, tools so that professionals can feel involved with the system as a whole and be able to draw lines and objectives that they can share to row more strongly, organize to organization, up to the whole system. In 2004, the public health system developed one of these tools, the direction per objectius, perhaps imperfect, yes, but a tool that precisely seeks a continuous better of the processes that, yes or yes, pass through the professionals. In 2012, however, this tool is crushed. That is why I am announcing the challenge of the national health system. Near us now close a stage, near us now start a new stage, too, of return of rights, and, among them, improve the working conditions of our professionals. This is government action, this is action in front of the system, in front of the professionals, who end up going back, obviously, to the citizenry. Improving their working conditions is also improving the whole system and the quality of citizen care. For this reason, this March 19, at the executive council, we approved the Decree Law 6/2019, on the restoration of the variable productivity complement of the statutory staff of the Catalan Institute of Health. We did so for justice, to return to our professionals to what they lost as a result of retailing, in an economic situation of brutal global financial crisis, unprecedented in the last few years. And for this reason this 2012 the Law of Presumptions of the Generality has agreed to the reduction of the PODs to 50_per_cent and now we reverse these adjustments; six years, where to the professional we have asked and we have demanded this commitment and they have not been rewarded, only with 50_per_cent of this commitment of the direction per object. The Government, with this decree, ensures that the statutory staff of the Catalan Institute of Health recovers 75_percent of the productivity supplement this same year, which corresponds to the previous year. It is this measure that today we carry to validation of the chamber, as also that the year came the professionals already recover 100_per_cent of the DPOs. Some groups of this chamber had asked me repeatedly, and with unbelief, whether we would be able to make this return to the professional. So we did it, because that's also governance, because we govern for citizenship and governance for our professionals, who stoically endured the setbacks of the economic crisis, which we asked for effort, because the priority was people and quality of care. And they did. And we asked them for that effort. And now it's justice, it's justice and justice, that the one you should never have lost... that we have to return to. They will represent a total of €96 million, this direction per object; it is 24 that we add this year and 24 next year. The DPOs, which is this complement that was incorporated in 2004 as this instrument of management, incentive, motivation to achieve a continuous improvement of the organizations, processes and results..., is finally returned this year in 75_per_cent and the year it sees in 100. To ensure this continuous improvement of our health system with the co-responsibility that they ask for directions per object is to make the system much better. They are individual and group incentives, which have in value, also, the work of teams in our system. For this, we give answer; we give answer to a demand of the staff of the Catalan Institute of Health. The large number of PODs in the salary structure of the ICS statutory staff has made the reduction of this complement have a considerable impact on the salaries of this collection; it is much higher the impact than that of the rest of the employees' collections. And we're talking about an impact on many healthcare professions, not just optional – doctors, midwives, psychologists – but also nurses, nursing assistants, administrators and other professionals who work day by day in our healthcare system. For this reason, I also thank Parliament for bringing the debate today after... in the first plenary after the approval of the government agreement. To be effective before the month of April of this 2019, this measure by means of a law did not give, by the end, and that is why we have done so by means of the law decree. And for this, today's demands, Members and Members, do not delay this implementation of a measure that is likely to benefit ICS workers and workers, improves the organization and the provision of health services, allows recovery of a lost right, an injustice from a very complex economic situation. Because we think we don't have to wait any longer, after these six years, we're asking you to validate this decree. Because when we talk about professionals and we talk about improving the conditions of their and our professionals, which is an objective of this government and which is a priority of this legislature, this goes much further, too, than wage increases; it is also reconciliation, quality of occupation, continuing training, decent work spaces. And we've been working on all this, too. These professionals to whom we return the directions per object are also seeing better in the quality of their occupation. We look at all, absolutely all, the challenges we have ahead, also respect the professionals. For this reason, we came from a guarantee plan of employment stability, approved already the last legislature, with which, with agreement with all the agents involved in the health sector, we improve the quality of the occupation, with the call of the 100_per_cent of the repositioning fee, with a public offer with the ICS, with the Catalan Institute of Health, of 10,092 places in 2017, which, for example, represented that from nursing we passed from three hundred places in 2016 to more than three thousand places in this 2018. And for the first time, too, we went from 100 places to physiotherapy. In the public entities of the Generality, the public offer has been 3,557 places. In total, 13,649, which will be offered in the next three years to stabilize structural template today in a situation of temporality, also reconverting five hundred new contracts from eventual to interim. This is to work for a stable system of health, the stability of its professionals; to reduce the overload and improve the service through agreements with the sector, with the future contract of 250 new family workers, with a total economic injection of more than 100 million euros, with a government agreement to be able to contract faculties that we form in our country and in our centers but that have an extra-Community origin, to be able to contract those people that we form in the Catalan Institute of Health; posing to the agendas also of our professionals and our system the Siscat agreement; labor recovery of the 2018 day more than a day of suitable subjects – this is what the signatories of the agreement..., is that the agreements and the first pacts allow us to bring in between the 100th day, the 10th day, the 10th day, the 10th day, the 10th day, the 10th day, the 10th day, the 10th day, the 10th day, the 10th day, the 10th day, the 10th day, the 10th day, the 10th day, the 10th day, the 10th day. We have also done all this with conciliation measures, such as unifying the schedule of primary care in primary care centres up to eight on the evening. And all of this stands out from this priority of putting professionals in front of the system, with the Forum of Professional Dialogue, which, as you know, because I came to the Health Commission to explain it, but I also want to share it with the rest of the Members and Members, will allow us to agree on the guidelines for identifying the needs of health professionals in agreement with new care models. We need to look at the needs we will have for our people and see who are the professional roles to know what number of professionals, how we need them and how we can guarantee them. They are not only the professionals of today, but the professionals of tomorrow; the best of the conditions to be able to provide the best assistance. We will also make the territorial map of needs and profiles of health professionals in the area of Siscat, preserving that so much burden and that it is an indestriable adjective of our public health system, which is equity, also territorial equity. We do not escape from the debates about whether we have all the professionals where we have to hold them and about the performance we ask for in the system, about the citizenry. Therefore, we must continue to set work lines and change elements to different levels that allow these professional planning and planning policies to be driven in a way that is obviously oriented to the identified needs. We always have to look long with short, medium and long-term action, with determination. Therefore, the present and future of the health system go through the deployment of dedicated professional planning and planning policies. Only in this way can the Catalan health system continue to feel the referent that it is today, a referent at European level and on some occasions also at world level. We want a powerful welfare state. A powerful welfare state requires a state-of-the-art public health system. And that's why we need professionals to agree with what we want, because our health professionals and our health professionals need to be able to respond to these new people's needs; a people that is characteristic for their aging, for the increase of chronic diseases, for the integration of attention and for all the challenges we have ahead. It is not only that we have a system capable of solving the more pointed and more complex, but that which refers to a number of people living in our country, which is the increase of chronicity because of, also, changes in demography. Therefore, giving the professionals all the tools so that they can do it in front of them, because they can adapt to the needs of our health system, which are the needs of the citizenry, is what we are about to do as the government, and that is what we will do. And that happens, among other things – and that's why I thank you for being here, Members and Members, in this debate that I consider important – for the approval of this decree that we are bringing here from the government. Today we are returning to rights, and it is only fair that this chamber is also on the side of the rights of the health professionals and our system. It has always been, the Parliament of Catalonia has always been at the side of professionals, the Parliament of Catalonia is always at the side of the citizenry. And, therefore, I thank you for this debate today and for this future approval. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.246.0	Thank you, Counselor. It is now the turn of parliamentary groups to determine their position. And in the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.247.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. MPs, MPs, Vice-Presidents, Councillors and Councillors, I remember perfectly well as Inés Arrimadas, in his first speech in this Parliament last parliamentary term, already asked President Arthur but the return of these payments, these DPOs. So myself, I remember the very speeches of Mrs. Arrimadas with President Puigdemont, with President Torra... And it is here, in this Parliament, many times we have told you that it is necessary to return these payments, I myself have done so: I remember, this very thing, I have done to the Councillor Comín, to Mr Aragones does not do anything, and to you on countless occasions from this Faro and many, perhaps even more, from the Health Commission, and obviously all the spokespersons of the Health Commission, who are part of this legislature and of the past, so we have done it with insistence. And it's that the government brings us a law order to start paying a share of the spread in 2012. In the presuppositions? So no. It brings us a law decree to revert exactly Article 26.3 of Law 1/2012, on the Generality, on which you reduce 50_percent of the wages fixed according to the agreement of the sectoral table of the workers of the ICS. And it is that this productivity complement has a very, very important part of the wage structure. Now, as it sounds, obviously, the drums already in the elections here too – not to say that since December 2017, therefore, since the elections were made, they have not made any changes, nothing has changed –, they do not carry a law, they do not carry it, they carry a decree, a decree to add 24,6_millions for this current exercise, 2019, and 25_millions for the year 2010, which will be able to consolidate the annual assumption of subsequent exercises. And what's obvious is that the workers have a right to collect the cent_per_cent of the agreement, of the agreement, because I remind you that every year these DPOs have been agreed to in the cent_per_cent but they have remained retail. And it's that the workers have right to collect and recover what has not been recovered since 2012 and to see the DPO and I am increased in relation to what life has earned and what you also have; including knowing... when we feel it to you, I think that the workers must also have right to know what is the real effort that the government has today to bring us this decree, because I need to explain a little which is its management. And I'll set an example, after I've listened to her. The Generality, you, the past year was allocated 20.4_millions to a million-dollar match– 20.4_millions. I imagine that everyone who follows parliamentary debates knows perfectly well where you went last year: to propaganda, to award the teleprocess. Because TV3 is always rewarded with more money, and that's indisputable. Vice President, is that questionable? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, is that questionable? [[Pause.]] Okay. The television of propaganda – vice president, if he wants, can open turn – charges before the health workers. You spent this money, even though you said no, to collect the teleprocess more money, huh? Maybe someone will ask why, even though you deny it. Because to reward the propaganda, in 2008, you allocated 320,4_millions; to reward the workers this effort, you donated zero_euros. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, I see you're saying this... You're in pain – I don't know if the vice president will still deny it – charging 120,000 euros, vice president; or not? Ratified here for your group. That's his priority. Money to make propaganda, no doubt, you have them, they have found them; we have cases. For your words it seems even sometimes, counsel, that you have made the health system. And it's that with surprise, so, many years ago we've seen how the government's priority isn't professional. In fact, they make so much propaganda that even to the legal report of this decree the secretary general proposes exactly – works comets – "to delete from the title of the initiative the reference to the year 2019, all the time that the total restoration will come in two years. It's that this was the headline you were preparing for TV3 today. But, of course, they've drawn up the plan, even the secretary general. You say you're proud of the professionals. No doubt that... I believe that all the deputies of this chamber, if anything we are well satisfied and proud of the work delivered, dedicated and passionate that the professionals have had. But, of course, if you're not so proud, so proud, you'll advise, so pay the workers the job at once, take them off – and that's why you need to take measures, not carry decrees, as I said earlier this morning – working to reduce the waiting list... Because the professionals have endured these flaps that you describe, but, of course, you say it as if you're here, so... neither you, your team, nor your advice, your party, are in all this, right? You were there, too. And we've all seen – although some, therefore, deny it – how you spent your money. How much money have they had to disappear for this black hole in Catalonia! There's been money and money. In conclusion, Counselor, we have been, are and, obviously, will always be on the side of workers and patients, of users. Stop advertising, and obviously we will vote in favour of the workers covering the part they had. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.248.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, it is now the return of the deputy Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.249.0	Thank you, President – now the deputy leads me to the vice president... Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. He told Councillor Comín that he had once been told, in a trip to Europe, that it was curious that the Catalan health system, a system of excellence, was so effective; and indeed the answer was that its staff, the staff that makes it possible, is the lowest paid in Europe, and that this is one of the reasons for which a good system, a system of excellence, turns out to be much more efficient than other places. In fact, the retributive structure of the ICS staff was large on the DPOs. This has meant that this reduction of 50_per_cent, which has been from the year 2012 until now continuously to all staff, not just the faculty, as the counselor said, but in general..., it has been far more than in other public employees; and that is quite true. Here we have claimed many times this effect of more than 20_per_cent in reducing the wages of the health professionals. In the process of mediating the vacancy that took place in November – five days of vacancy that the ICS faculty made – there, in the agreement, is previewed the recovery of the DPOs, and said: "On April 19, 75_per_cent, and April 2020, 100_per_cent. Therefore, first thing: important the date of April, because it justifies the urgency and urgency that make necessary a decree law. Call attention – because I did the same thing that Congressman Soler and read me the whole letter – that in the first drafts of the decree came out a _second paragraph that wanted to give compliment to the 20 payment agreement proposed for the same Health Department, but that it was deleted, because – says textually – « it would have been embedded in a hypothetical 20 assumption project. Miri, let's say that we expect this hypothetical presupposition forecast of 2020 to be presumptive that the period of provisionality, of not governing, of the presuppositions not even approved by the government, is over, so that they have called themselves some elections or so that you are able to carry a presupposition in this Parliament. The DPOs created the year 2006, and basically had a fi, a fi that pretended that each professional, say, would have his own task with global strategic objectives, which was an instrument of incentive, motivation. I think the proposals were very laudable. At this point we are far from these good proposals and, in any case, far from having common strategic objectives, and more quickly we can say, with good sensile words, that we have the well cremated professionals and the well cremated professionals in their day to day. They have had to resort to the law decree – and it seems to me that it has also been said – because of their inability to approve certain assumptions, which in the background have been the instrument used for this return, among other things because the Law of Presumptions of the 17th, which is extended, continues to have the forecast of 50_percent reduction. So somehow they had to dedicate it. Following on from this issue of the lack of assumptions, there is a report from the Directorate General of the Public Service that says: "The current political situation resulting from the parliamentary dynamic has prevented the adoption of the 19th Presumption Act. I have translated myself, and in reality I mean that we are before a government that does not even approve the assumptions at its meetings and does not bring them to Parliament; a government that takes action when pressure forces, and we see the measure of recovery of extraordinary payments with a decree, or that the vacancy of the ICS faculty, therefore, brings to the decree that we are today..., because it forms part of the agreements. Therefore, I would not call social Fridays, or social holidays, but decrees under pressure, these decrees which the Government is obliged to throw forward so as to complete some of the things that have or because the pressure on the road has caused them to pull forward. Let's hope that other elements of pressure, like Bombers or Squad Mosos, also get us to get some decrees out of these. The import that the councillor gave..., said, in the two years, approximately 92 or 99_million euros, that will be distributed between 2019 and 2020 to give answer to all this. These imports and the need for recuperation of rights, as the Councillor said before – spoke of the need for recuperation of rights for the health sector and professionals –, I understand that they should not only be limited to the staff of the ICS; I understand that the staff of the Siscat, which in the background is a public system, much so that the CatSalut does not want to assume his role as employer, must also be seen to benefit. So, one of the questions that I'm left in the air... and so, as well as the question, we'll continue to validate the decree, as it couldn't be in any other way, but it leads me to ask if the Siscat staff will also receive this recovery from the DPOs, among other things, because all this would have to be incorporated into the cost rate, because, if not, the Siscat staff, it will depend on whether I'm covered by the budgetary balance of their center. Obviously, if it still has to depend on the centre's presuppositional balance, then some will suffer more than others and, therefore, we will not return rights. And as if there has been some or other, say, difficulty in dealing with the Siscat, because you yourself have tried to sign an agreement on the sidelines of the Siscat staff, with which you have... somehow managed to put at risk some of the rights that had been achieved with the signing of the agreements and in the same Siscat agreement. Therefore, I think it will be important to know whether or not the Siscat staff will actually benefit, regardless of the presuppositional balance. And anyway, as I was saying... Ah, and it left me one thing, too, asked: if you have predicted the Government, in this scene of presuppositional prorogation, the recognition of the professional career of the staff concerned, according to the recent judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, and that there are some proposals in the sense that it is possible to ask and can be returned. I have not counted it, most possibly the unions yes, but it would be worth knowing if this will also form part at some point, I suppose, of the 814_million credential supplement that they would inform us this morning President Torra and Vice President Aragonès. In any case, we will give support, validate this decree, and we will do so for the professionals who have carried over their spaces and over their buttocks the effects of the flap. As I said, I don't know if President Torra will make a social march or the decrees under pressure; so far, what we do know clearly, is that what he has done is deny the best that many citizens and citizens of Catalonia could have, and let's hope, through the motion that our group will be presenting tomorrow and it will lead to a vote, that we can bring some things back. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.250.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, it is the turn of Mrs Yolanda López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.251.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, all of you. This morning President Torra did not recall a phrase from his investiture speech: "Social policies must be the driving force of the republic. Where were those words left, ladies and gentlemen of disgovernment? You don't want or know how to solve Catalonia's problems. And it's not that we say it: it's that it says more than 53_per_cent of the Catalan population. And, if we talk about health, you don't want or know how to solve, and so the data says: more than 73_per_cent of Catalans and Catalans surveyed by the CEO last January consider that the Government is doing nothing to solve health problems. And it's not that it's going better. You have destroyed the health system of Catalonia. Since they arrived at the institutions with Mr Mas and Mr Boi Ruiz as Health Advisor, they have fulminated the health system drastically. You have achieved that the doctors in Catalonia have preferred and prefer to work in other areas of the Spanish State rather than in Catalonia. They have resulted in a massive number of pre-retirements in the health sector. You have achieved a great shortage of professionals in the healthcare system in Catalonia, especially in the areas of pediatrics, primary care, anesthesia and radiology. You are the authors of a health system that has largely been put in the hands of concerts, of companies whose sole objective is profit and the continuous increase of profits. And it was you who managed to get a large part of the health sector workers hired for consultation and not in a public way, making them exposed to all kinds of cuts, but excluded from all kinds of improvements. You have made the interior and rural areas completely abandoned, and there are populations where the doctor spends only one day a week. You have made it difficult to occupy jobs in the health sector, to the extent that the medical school has been forced to discard job offers, because salaries are irrational. They have turned the health system into a commercial model, indignant to the users and indignant to the workers, a model that has dehumanized care, with models for objectives that in no way respond to health interests, but rather to a supposed misunderstanding of efficiency and that has the professionals in the sector tense. Ladies and gentlemen of governance, health is neither played nor traded. And to all this you, with this decree, want to make a tourniquet with a tirite. But you must know that this measure will not stop the serious problems of the health system, it will not stop the flight of doctors, because for this you need to make an urgent surgical intervention. And again I use a health simile: the Catalan health system, in its hands, is suffering a cardiorespiratory arrest. Don't be proud, with this decree you are only returning a right that health sector workers already had in 2012, and on top of that, 75_per_cent. Because they think that there are many workers in the health system who are excluded from this measure, as they belong to the concerted system. Therefore, in addition to returning the rights to workers, what you have to do is work to ensure that there is equal pay and work for all workers in the Catalan health system. And yet, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the problems would not be solved. Last week, more than 1,200 social sector entities told it loud and clear: an injection of 600 and 900 million euros is urgently needed to meet the most pressing needs of the Catalan population. The discomfort in the health sector is not only in the poor and aberrant salaries of the staff of the Institut Català de la Salut, which is below the Spanish average, and let us no longer say the difference with our neighbouring countries, but also in the increase of 23.5_per_cent of the waiting lists since the creation of the government, that more than 27,000 people in Catalonia are waiting for a place of residence, that in Catalonia there are more than 26,000 people who are in the two most serious levels of dependence and who are waiting for a benefit that is already granted, putting us in the queue of Spain. The problem is also that you cannot continue to extend budgets that have to cover the commitment to the social entities of the third sector, which need to comply with the wage improvements of these workers' collective agreements. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, when do you intend to take measures to alleviate all this, which is not small? When will you begin to rule? When do you plan to take responsibility for all that is yours? When do you think you are a responsible government, a governing government? Social entities are covering the additional costs that their Administration would have to cover, which means that they are taking money out of other services in order to be able to cope with payments that are the responsibility of this Government. You have turned your back on the local world, left the people, the municipalities, who, like those of Terra Alta, have had to propose real estate incentives to attract optional staff, or municipalities like that of Barcelona, who have been forced to take on the tasks that this Government does not carry out, such as child benefits or housing aid. You are an antisocial government, a government that has people with water around their necks. Finally, to say that we will support this decree, but I say it to you again: this is a right that health workers already had in 2012, they are not creating anything new, do not want to make us believe that you work, do not want to make us believe that you are a social government, because you are at the opposite of all this. That's right, you're an example of disgovernment. This government has little time left; so at least get to work for the time you have left. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.252.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.253.0	Good afternoon. First of all, to make it clear that the validation we're going to make in an estona is not really related to the denomination of the decree. If someone reads what is the name or the name of the decree, they will read in a very clear way'recovery of the complement. And unfortunately, so today, it's not a restoration of the complement that refers to productivity or PODs, but we're going to have a reality in which it's held back in 50_per_cent the same to perceive 75_per_cent of the same in this year 2019. What's different is what's going to happen or what's going to happen, better said, the year 2020. And we thought it was a waste, so let's point out that today, much as we validate the decree, we're not doing a restoration. In any case, we should, yes, start by remembering why it is not charge 100_per_cent. This has not come out of the non-res, but it has a clear origin and identifies itself in a decision of that which was called "the Government of the best, surely hardly questionable that it is the Government of the best retailers, for all the recourse that we have already made and even in this legislature, in this chamber, to see what was intended to recover, and which meant that it was left in a 50_per_cent where it was the productivity complement of the statutory workers of the Catalan Institute of Health; and we want to make very clear this: the Catalan Institute of Health and statutory personnel, not all health personnel and not others where they develop public health in our country. Who detailed at that time was the most advanced student of the troika's policies, and the current government must feel that it was herer or herer, in good measure, above all by political transmission, of what the lords and the lords did. And we also want to put, sadly, in value what it meant to be 2012. Mirin, what they did was: that, where it had already been agreed, where it had an origin in the second agreement of working conditions of the staff of the Catalan Institute of Health, in its article 6, which we call "the DPOs or "complement of productivity, already agreed in a collective agreement, was no longer paid for a unilateral action of the Government. And the origin in this case was no obligation coming from the Spanish State, but a clear option on the part of the Catalan government to go to detail in a 50_per_cent what the DPO is. And what it's going to mean, and it's hard, is that when the Administration, that political power at a certain time signs through collective bargaining, goes unfulfilled. And, beyond what the courts can say, it is going to break with principles such as trade union freedom and collective bargaining – more than a collective agreement is technically not a suitable collection, but it is collective bargaining. And from a much more global perspective, what we have is that the great agreements and the great social pacts, that were union representatives for one band and the State or Administration for another band, that we came to agreements and all the complacency, so they are no longer complete. And it's the gravity of the reality we have since the year 2010, and in this case since the year 2012. And what I'm assuming, obviously, is that one administration one day is a pact and the next day is incomplete. In any case, also, on the concrete content of this decree, the same, moreover, finds origin in a royal decree of the Spanish State, and thus exposes itself in the same administered dispatch: in the Royal decree 24/2018. And it regulates, this decree that we validate today, the recovery for this year 2019 of 75_per_cent of the DPO. But perfectly, based on Royal Decree 24/2018, they could have recovered 100_per_cent. There is no standard or regulatory reality that we have not allowed this year 2019 to recover its totality. At times, too, you place the origin in a shared way – and so it has been seen in the interventions – between the wave mediation of the last month of December and, for another band – which will surely be the most uncertain agreement – the agreement of the sectoral table. Certainly, there it is established, according to the sectoral table, that the year 2020 will have a recovery of 100_per_cent. But for all you've been a problem that the government has decided, or the councillor, or councillors, to recover 100_per_cent from it this year. And, look, we didn't think to do it, but, as the councilwoman seemed very uncertain to us – she also referred to other rights of the Catalan public health staff – we also want to refer to other rights that, unfortunately or badly, have not yet recovered and that do not resolve the doubts that this Administration has. When will the second-agreement day come back? – first question. The graceful days, when will the consideration of the day be kept? 5_percent of the salaries of some centers for which he does work, when will he recover? – we're talking about 2010, after all. You should also have resolved the equality of criteria for internal and internal persons, which the High Court of Justice no longer said only, as the Member of the Left made quite certain, but which have already been said by two members of the Supreme Court. Or when will they regain the validity of the time-selection pact, the work bag?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.254.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.255.0	And then the question, you'll allow me, counselor. Here again we manifest: the transfer of the condition or to the condition of interest or interim is never disabled work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.256.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.257.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselors, who are free of guilt, who threw the first stone, say, right? Yes, Mr. Vidal, yes. Because, of course, it's very easy to hold everyone accountable and it's very difficult to take responsibility. We're willing to do it, we've done it, we do it every time. The years after the crisis, or the years of the crisis, were very difficult years and very complicated measures had to be taken. And there was a government that took complicated steps, and there was some party that without having responsibilities for the government took on those responsibilities. But, of course, going out to the Faristol to say that it's everyone else's fault that they don't take on their own responsibilities, man, Mr. Aragones, and I don't mean the vice president. Mr. Aragones! Llei 4/2017, in its article 25.3, Llei de presuppositions del 2017, consolidates the DPOs for ICS workers, and knows who voted it? You. You made it possible for that law to be approved and, therefore, that the year 2017, and the 18, and the 19, is consolidated without the details of the DPOs. So, here, responsibilities for everyone. Also for the government, and also for the government, obviously, current, which, when they began to rule, took many decisions to correct. Mr Soler has already cited the first decision of the Executive Board, which was not precisely to take steps to reduce waiting lists, nor to take measures to improve primary attendance, nor to take measures to suppress school barracks, etc. It was taking action for TV3, it was taking action to recover political delegations from alienating it, it was taking action of these characteristic ones. It was not necessary to take steps to recover the per-objectivity cents of the staff of the Català de la Salut Institute. And, in fact, because the government reacted, it shut down a vacancy, it shut down that there was a vacancy. And it is then when the government assumes this claim, in that case of primary care measures, so as to recover the direction by objectives, the incentives to achieve objectives, productivity, etc. But the government – the government is the one that governs and therefore needs to keep the tools to govern and the main tool to govern are the assumptions – should have presented assumptions, where precisely the recovery of these incentives for productivity is contemplated. As they did not, as they did not comply with their obligations, they did not comply with their obligations to submit a presumption, they must go covering holes, and they must go through laws, which is what we find here today. And, obviously, we will support them, obviously we will support them for... – and with that I do give the reason to Mr. Aragonès –, as the title of the decree says, "restore – I would add" partially –"incentives per objective – partially –; it is not to recover..., because it has been said repeatedly that this means "recover". No, they don't recover anything, all the ICS staff who have failed to perceive 50_per_cent of these complements since the year 2012 until now, do not recover it. They'll start collecting it from then on, again, an additional 25_per_cent; it's to say, they'll charge a 75_per_cent of that which is their remuneration rights. And what fruit... by the decisions of the government, the fruit of decisions of this Parliament, of which we also feel responsible, because it was an extraordinarily complicated moment for public finances, and it was necessary that all the folds made an effort, so they stopped perceiving it for a few years. And this, which has meant, together with the lack of nine jobs..., has, precisely, been a major load of work with less pay, and, therefore, working in worse conditions, which is what has been the case for opposition groups for some time now: we are trying to change this situation; we have changed the situation of the economic and financial crisis in 2008 and, therefore, we are trying to capture this situation. So, counsel, I don't think you're coming to ask the opposition groups to support this decree, because at the end of today's day, here, what you're doing is where you're asking them, one, the professionals, two...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.258.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.259.0	...the opposition groups a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.260.0	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.261.0	Now it's the turn, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Congresswoman Gemma Espigares.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.262.0	Thank you, President. Indeed, I will begin with the words with which the counselor gave: we have asked for an effort and it is fair to return it. And I believe that for Republican Left is the definition of what we are doing today: to make the effort that the workers have made these years in a commendable way, in a very professional way, to make them - he, with this effort on the part of the government, on the part of Economy, on the part of Health and other departments, to make them to what they correspond. I was also talking that this impact will not only be for the faculty, it will be for different employees, and I think that this is also important that we remember today, because there are some administrators who are with us today, and we have been talking to health workers lately, and I think that this is also important. With the deputy, with the Najad, we were there the other day talking, and they said to us: "It is important, too, that our pocket is worth, that the administrators don't just dedicate themselves to giving time, but that we do a job on the team. And, in fact, to the Health Commission, he recalled an article by Dr. Gódia, by Torres de Segre, by the Segria, that was precisely explained. Therefore, I think it is also important today that we keep in mind that we are not only returning a part of the PODs to the faculty but also to the group of workers who are in the health field. One more element that I'd like to highlight than you said. He talked about the return of rights, the DPOs and the quality of the occupation. And I don't think we should just talk in economic terms, in terms of wages, that obviously it will be very good for the health care system, but also for the overall conditions that are being achieved. And he set the example of conciliation, and I think it's also an example in which this government is moving forward and in which the first seems to be going. Look, I'm setting you an example in this sense. Yesterday he shared a room with Guissona's companies and explained to me the problems they have at Guissona's CAP; in fact, it is the Cervera-Guissona Health Base Area. Beer is a basic area with a lot of big people, and Guissona is totally the opposite, it's a basic area with a lot of birth and a lot of immigration, and that the social indicators that the government has implemented, that reward chronicity, they reward as they give more resources because it is possible to face everything that comes, that we would win for one band we lose for the other, and that Congresswoman Montserrat Fornells, who has worked very well in the region, has been asking for, and already asked the Councillor Comin, was..., so: "Separate these basic areas and keep resources. So that's what we're doing today too: that Guissona's Base Area has a little more pediatrics, that it has a driver, that it has a full-time odontologist, obviously, it's also a better job condition. It's not just because this pediatrician is going to get some money that we're going to get back to her today, but because there's going to be another person who's going to be taking a share of the "quote and so they can work with a lot more quality. And that's also partly what we're doing today, and I think it was important to highlight it. Mirin, in the same example; yesterday when I was talking to these people of Guissona, they said to me: "It is that in Parliament you have only been disillusioned. Dec: "No. I'd make a morning. You'll only see on the TV that we're down. To Parliament in more ways, things, by luck. And I gave them the example of the Health Commission, which the spokespersons of the Health Commission have bothered me to feel, and I always say the same to them: to the Health Commission, more than 90 percent of the agreements we approve for unanimity. I imagine that the spokespersons of the Health Commission will not contradict me, because, fortunately, in those fears that are important to the people, we have been able to rise from one end of the hemisphere to the other. And he said to them, "I'm sure we'll do exactly the same thing tomorrow. As far as I have understood, more clearly, for the comments of the Members who preceded me, I understand that we will unanimously validate this decree, but, go on, for the comments, I would say that, Mr Vidal, all the groups have been added to the "Yes Critic that fashioned the CUP, because in the end, when you are in the Government, I do not know if I can define it as priority, obviously; I imagine that they are not questioning the Constellera Vergés who does not want to return the cent_per_cent. Obviously, I've done it from the principle, I'm not sure, for what I know and the way you work, but I also understand that it's up to you to prioritize, and that the government has to do a lot, things, and that, obviously, without the assumptions, they're not going to do everything and as fast as they want. Therefore, this critical yes leaves some things out of the table. For example: it was in doubt what is the real effort asked of the government. Ostres! Noranta-sis_million euros. I think it's a pretty important effort. And for now it will be 24, this year. And why did some congressman ask that, huh? I've been worried to ask the workers how much they're supposed to pay them, because here we're talking about €96_million as a presupposition, because it's up to us to manage, but it's up to them, that they'll see it on the recompensed payroll..., and they'll say to me: "So, look, calmly, between seven hundred and seven thousand euros, depending on the professional. So I think the effort is pretty important. And I would ask some Members who do not compare, that this is not a priority for TV3 and the journalists and the people who do good work on TV3, and the whole audience, which certainly – every month continues to rise and rise and rise. Looks like the more they criticize her, the more people she likes to watch TV3. You're curious, aren't you? The relationship. I don't think that's what this is about. This was not to be sorted if you prioritize TV3 or professionals, it was that there are many things that you want to do, and that you are going to do it a little bit, or as far as you can. There was a table on the table if this decree was made for the social pressure, and even there were some comments about us not making us believe that this government is working. Go, counsel, how I follow him, for a little while I can, the schedule, if what he does is not work, it's detour's..., I don't know how to interpret it anymore. In fact, this decree the signature of President Torra, Councillor Vergés, Vice President Aragonès, and, in charge, Councillor Capella, because the Vice President, if I do not recall badly, was of permission of fatherhood, and Councillor Puigneró. Therefore, various councils that also agree to pull this forward. So, when it's in doubt that they don't work, I guess in the end, I'd say, "To rule must go first, to be opposed has to criticize, has to protest, has to point out the successes of others, eh? When the government does the work, then that's what it does because we already said we did it. I suppose when we approve the reduction of university fees, they will also say: "Clearly, as in Parliament we have approved a lot of times, the government only makes it complete. Well, then, I guess we'll just meet around here. Luckily, we also have some opposition group that makes proposals and that makes honest proposals, and I think it's nice to have it too, because at least on this side I think we don't all learn. But when it comes to finance, of course, I imagine that the Member who spoke about the assumptions is aware that the assumption they proposed in Madrid, the expense of social welfare, would not increase it, but that much increased was military expense. So, let's learn, when we do approve of things that we're not far enough here in Catalonia, we should also be able to look at with perspective... There were two similitudes that I liked very much, and that I will make them serve, as the good health professional, because it was talking about the inquiries and it was saying that the professionals do not see them coming back... or they do not see the work of government. Clearly, I imagine that what we do today, the citizens and the citizens will not reward it for the question of salvation. In fact, I think this government doesn't do things because I reward them, because they touch them and because they want to do them. I want to believe that good Republicans do things because it's social justice to do them. But even if it wasn't so, of course, that's what the professionals see on their payroll, not every citizen. But he talked about "turning around, "turning around, and I would say to Mrs Vergés: you don't turn around with dashes, you do what you're doing, you're grabbing the problem, you're going to haemorrhage and you're making a proposal that addresses the overall health system, you're looking at a model for the next 20 years, and you're doing as you told the Health Commission, that this primary, indeed, is at the center of the health system. And the other, which followed that "the health system is in cardio-respiratory arrest, clearly, therefore, gives me little to explain how well we are doing in this sense, because Esquerra Republicana does not get tired, to ask the Vergés Councillor that, precisely, we stop investing so much in cure, and we invest in prevention, because a euro in prevention is more than four euros in cure. And, in cardiorespiratory arrest, every time we have more people formed, more defibrillators, more devices, because precisely what we want is a cardioprotected territory, which you don't have to resort to RCP equipment, but prevent that no longer passes. Therefore, with all this, counsel, we will support this validation of the decree and hope that the year that you can continue to advance in this line. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.263.0	Finally, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Teresa Pallarès has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.264.0	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, President. Many thanks, counsel Alba Vergés; many thanks, counsel Puigneró, for the part that has also played you in the validation of this decree, and Vice President Aragonès, from the Economy. Look, I'm giving you thanks, but it wouldn't be hot, because this government and this government is doing the job. And, therefore, we don't have to thank you. But I do it to show that this work is done, that it leads to this Parliament, and we give all the support. This government rules, as dic. And if one day some of the parliamentary groups that have made some speeches to my mind have governance responsibilities in Madrid maybe they are brave, that they give their face to Catalonia, that they listen to us at once, that they end up with the situation of political prisoners and exiles, and then we can start talking about you to resources and skills as you do. [[Greetings.]] And now, beyond these speeches today, as we have seen in the morning, they are purely electoralists, I would very much like to believe that some group in the chamber do not recognize that salvation is a priority of the Government, of any government and also of our Government, salvation as a fundamental pillar of the welfare state that guides all the government's work, counsel, whatever the political orientation of the decisions it takes. They could agree, therefore, with me that our health system is one of the most important acts we have; a public and universal system that puts people at the center as well as well said in their exposition. Mirin, the economic crisis that has been seen throughout Europe since the year 2010 has led the administrations, as has been said previously, and among them the Generality of Catalonia, to implement a series of measures aimed at reducing the public deficit. Measures to reduce the wage mass of public employees were significant. This is neither good nor satisfactory for the government; it is the measures to be taken for the political and economic circumstances of the times. Add, moreover, to this situation of crisis, it may be considered that the advances that have been made in the field of health lead societies to an increase in the demand for assistance, by the aging of the population or by the increase of this population, and also to the best of many treatments, or to add new treatments, which sometimes entail cost overruns. Finally, since I also have Councillor El Homrani, we could add that problems with the financing of dependence have caused many demands in the same health system of people that the same system has to absorb their claims, licit, on the part of people who are affected. I mean, we have to take hands and hands to make this welfare state possible. And before this scene that has impacted us globally, I think we need to recognize the strength of the Catalan health system and to hear that, in a _marc of crisis, a scene of opportunity must also be set up. I am not an absolute expert in this camp, but for what I have read these days and in the line of what the counselor has announced, we are talking about priority of prevention to avoid major decompensation with critical patients, we are talking about possibilities in integration of the hospital primary to ensure continuity in treatment, basically investments in better infrastructure, and I am not talking only about better totxo, let's say, right? but also for the involvement of citizens in the same health and management programmes in the health system; if not, a people-centred health system. I need to identify. I« govern means to identify very well the needs that the system has, to introduce the changes that touch. That's why I liked it very much, Counselor, that you've spoken about the Professional Dialeg Forum. This means taking into account the people who are working day by day, who know, who know; taking into account their opinions to plan and see what the future that awaits us in this health care market must be. I think it's very important. Therefore, they will agree with me that the most important key because this is possible are the professionals, who, beyond the vocation, must feel encouraged, recognized, but also economically encouraged, and disappointed by the work they do. Therefore, today, from this Faristol, to thank the pocket of so many professionals who have had to remain attentive, sometimes with overtime and labor, people in a situation that also, and no doubt, has remained worrying about those you are in government. Not only wills and well done work are necessary. Here we can manage the competitions, we want to manage the competitions, but we want the resources needed to do it. No better than us: we know who are the needy of the system and how to give it an answer. The figures show that salvation is, has been and will be a priority for the Government of Catalonia. In the proposal..., or pre-project, the proposal, tell it as usual, of presupposition for 2019, already bears an impact of almost 40_percent of the generality's global presupposition, recovering the figures of fa deu years, 42_per_cent of the year 2009. So good we can have other figures if we manage our resources. The budget proposed for 2017 is almost €9,500_million, an increase of 6_percent of the approved budget for 2017. And if you don't want to talk about the fiscal deficit, you don't want to talk about it, and if you don't want to talk about the lack of commitments from the Spanish State, you don't want to talk about it, and if you don't want to talk about the systemic incompliments of the third addition of the State, that you don't want to talk about it either, surely in this country we would do things in another way, because we know, we know how to manage it and we knew perfectly what to do with our resources, not only to attend to people at health centres, but also to give answers to their professionals. Go ahead and my admiration for all the people who work attend to people. There's no political demagoguery here that's worth it. What counts here is the degree of humanity of our professionals. And I also thanked him for his commitment and dedication. Returning to the decree we are dealing with, those who have already spoken to me have said this in addition: some measures, as has been said, have been in place since 2012, but they have always been understood as temporary measures which could be the object of a reversal at the time the economic situation is allowed and will finance it. And now is the time. In 2018, the economy and the financial situation of the Generalitat have improved in relation to the previous years, which means that we will not have a risk of failure of the deficit objective, which marks us by the Spanish state. Therefore, feasible, advisable this reversal, 75 percent, as we have said, counsel, to 100 percent. And I manifest in the same line that you have made that it is not only a strictly redistributive and remunerative measure, but also a measure of better at the same performance as the health system in Catalonia. Obviously, therefore, we are satisfied, convinced and in favour of the validation of this decree, decree law. I would like to highlight to finish the task developed today in a special way to all the people of the world of salvation, but especially to the ICS, the public enterprise of the largest health services of Catalonia, with 42,000 professionals, who serve almost 6_million people throughout the territory; manages basically 80_percent of primary care, large hospitals, such as Vall d'Hebron, Bellvitge, Germans Trias; hospitals of territorial reference, the Arnau de Vilanova, Joan XXIII in Tarragona, Trueta de Girona, Verge de la Cinta a Tortosa, and a regional hospital, Viladecans. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking only about the numbers of salvation and the well-being of many people within the territory, both the agreements and the services. I confess that I also liked to talk about assumptions. We'll have occasion. But today we take responsibility for the work that we do, which is to validate, validate this decree and bring about the responsibility that we have with us as Members and Members of this House. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.265.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] Well, we called for a vote, one time the debate was over. They know that, according to Rule 158.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and that the votes denied, on the contrary, are in favour of the derogation. Let us therefore proceed to the vote on the validation of Decree Law 6/2019. The vote begins. The Decree Ill 6/2019, restoring the variable productivity complement of the statutory staff of the Institut Català de la Salut, has been ratified unanimously, is to say, 124 votes in favour, against and against. And now regularly I'm also close to asking the chamber if any group also wants – yes – that it's votes if it's going to process as per the decree. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.266.0	Yes, Mr. President; we would ask that it is arranged as the bill of law precisely to be able to incorporate the recovery, the return of the remaining 25_per_cent of the PODs in fiscal year 2020, as long as, if we are to expect this government to present assumptions, it is quite insecure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.267.0	All right. In any case, therefore, as a parliamentary group and as a minimum a parliamentary sub-group, let's now vote on whether it is dealt with as per this Decree 6/2019. They know that the votes claimed are in favour of being passed on as to law and the votes denied obviously against. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. The vote begins. In view of the vote, which corresponds to 62 votes in favour of the procedure as against the Law, 59 against and 3 abstentions, this decree will be dealt with as against the Law. [[Statement by the Director of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia]] [[351-00001/12]] Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day, which is the intervention in the plenary. [[remorse of the voice]] by the Director of the Antifrau Office of Catalonia. According to the article... they ask that if they are to get out of the hemicicle, they do it quietly and quickly, please. In accordance with Rule 201.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Bureau approved the appearance of the Director of the Anti-Fraud Office on the occasion of the institution's anniversary. On behalf of the chamber I welcome the members of the anti-fraud office who are accompanying us today and especially their director, who has the word at these moments. Mr. Gimeno, if you want to wait... [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.268.0	Very honorable...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.269.0	When you say so, Director; yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.270.0	Thank you. Very honorable President of the Parliament of Catalonia, very honorable President of the Generality of Catalonia, deputies, deputies, I want to aggravate to the chamber... [[Widow's remorse.]] I want to thank the chamber... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.271.0	Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.272.0	I wanted to thank this room that invited me to appear in commemoration of what are the years of operation of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia. I intend to explain the evolution of the office, what has happened, its crises, what it does today, and what this director would want that is done in a future, at least at the end. But, I admit it's important to pass accounts from this institution to this Parliament, I think it's more important to talk about what the evolution of corruption has been in Catalonia for these two years and, from the experience that it gives these two years of anti-fraud office, to point out the measures that are considered most appropriate for fighting corruption or for fighting corruption is more effective. This office's gene is paid back in 2005, when, from my point of view, two relevant, very relevant, apart from the context in which they were giving themselves these circumstances. For a band, the monogram ple on the terrible episode of Carmel's vortex, which also determines a political debate crispat in this chamber, which mediatedly ended and is known as ‘is said 3_per_cent. For another band, there is another circumstance that is very relevant, and it is that in 2003 the United Nations Convention against Corruption, in one of its resolutions, subscribes, advocates the creation of a specialized and independent organ, charged with preventing corruption. The ple that was approved in 2005 agreed that within four months it would create an anti-fraud office within the Administration of the Generality, and this is an important aspect, because in the first place it seemed, in 2005, that it had to depend, that it was attached to the Department of the Presidency. We must recognize and rejoice in the courage of this chamber to make the anti-fraud office attached to Parliament, giving it independence and complementing it in this way with the requirements given by Article 6 of this resolution to which I referred earlier, of the United Nations. This institution is created specifically aimed at preserving the transparency and integrity of administrations and staff in the public service. I mean it's created, this office, summarizing it, to prevent and investigate corruption. It also has some other side-effects, but in any case these are the two main ones. The office, in all its ways, was born – and I think that this is good to say now, after two years of activity – with many mental reserves on the part of some members of the chamber and in general within the Administration; even so I would say that in some cases they were not only mental reserves, but they were open contradictions. But I believe that at these moments I can say that the design responds to the creation of an office that, if in its moment it completed its purpose and its service, I think we are..., in two years the social paradigm has changed substantially. And, therefore, we should set up another way to give him skills, to this office. We don't want to be in the office, an office of small things; we want to be an office suitable for the future that we will care for our society. Perhaps the most relevant of all these questions – and then I will go ahead and insist on this – the most relevant is the impossibility of initiating more general investigations. At these times we can realize them on concrete facts and on concrete complaints or of offices, but in any case on very concrete things. I mean, we have to hope that an act of corruption or lack of integrity is produced in order to act, when we... our studies are always about the risks, and we cannot act on the risks, or we should be able to act more intensely on the risks. I'll talk more about these aspects. In short, we must save, as I said, this resolution to which I referred, that... corruption, according to this United Nations belief, is a malignant phenomenon; it is very graphic, this expression, which is one of them. Our company hasn't missed these corruption cases. We have since the decade of the eighty to now, and without any exhaustive, we can talk about the most gruesome cases: Catalan Bank in the eighty, Pretoria, Prenafeta, Pallerols, case Hisenda, case Palau, case Mercuri, ITVs, GISA, Adif, Sagrera and some cross-sectional always 3_per_cent. The OAC, with its crises, with its feverish ones, with its recognitions in the field of justice or other institutions of the State..., I believe that the system – despite, say, the interbanks – has worked reasonably. He got bad luck when he started. Indeed, it had not been well for a year since the first director died, dying as the office began. And that means that many of the administrative conditions that we find ourselves in and that we are flushing from that moment and that are manifest often we continue to have them at that moment, because from the beginning there was no work done with an administrative experience, which was obviously not at that time. Therefore, the system failed at that time. It is true that then, with the second director, there was a problem, that many of you already know him more directly, because he goes down to the year 2016. What I would like to say, with reference to this aspect, is that the system here in Parliament, the control system, has not failed, has worked, because in the end you made the decision that you wanted to make, depending on the legal requirements that are being established, and that's what you say. The system, in this aspect, I think it worked. What happens is that he left the office, I'd say, with a general lack of confidence in the people, in the citizens of Catalonia, and that's what it cost us. But I'm optimistic and I'd say that at these times, if we haven't managed to renew all confidence, we're at least living to do it substantially. I'll put down some data. The average number of complaints in the two years is around one hundred and fifty cases per year, of concrete complaints that are made; the year 2018 increased by 45_per_cent, went to 218, and in the first quarter of 2019 we have not reached eighty, which gives at least three hundred complaints. It is true that there has been an increase in the percentage of complaints that we reject because they are not the competence of the office, and that, well, does not prevent it from being analyzed and saying that in any case Catalan citizenship has renewed a confidence or is in the lives of renewing confidence in the office. And I also have to say that surely something is not right in our society and in our administrations, because the citizens do not know where to submit the complaints respect other aspects that are not exclusive competence of this office. But I believe that yes, that it is actually possible to say that we have recovered part of the trust. And this has to bring us to another aspect that is interesting that I exhibit here. It is not the same perception of corruption as real corruption, but it is true that trust in institutions depends more, or altogether, on the perception that the city has, and not on the reality that there is in this city. So here's a lot of work to do. Look, we make a barometer from the first year, every two years we make a barometer with what we think the perception of corruption. Lately, the polls, 81,3_per_cent told us that it was already a difficult problem; 87,5 said that politicians do nothing to avoid it, and 72_per_cent, that there was a lot of corruption. This quantity had dropped respect from the previous one, the one of 2016, but, of course, it had dropped from 80 to 72; I think that the two figures are inadmissible in our society. It is also true that the Eurobarometer, when referring to Spain, says that 94 per cent of the polls believe that corruption is sufficiently or very extensive, and only 2 per cent acknowledge that they have asked for a bribe. This, we..., to Catalonia refers to the 5_per_cent approximately that they have made direct contact with a bribe demand or something similar. And the European Union is between a 68 in perception and a 7_per_cent in direct demand. Therefore, we would say that in what is systemic we do not have the problem here. The problem, like..., in short, seems that we have it in the public and business sector, in those locks, as Professor Villoria says, in the locks of our public and business sector, that's where corruption grows. So, as we move forward, one of the most important aspects we have to do is strengthen the institutions. There is a lack of integrity, in any case, in the elites; that is what the citizens think. And also in the possibility of giving us the data that the General Council of the Judiciary has offered us, it must also be said that the convictions of minor officials, of not other..., of the fi, rank, and of the majors..., of the minor ones are much smaller, and that is objective. Therefore, it is also a given to consider. What can we do? It's the next thing I know, it'd be good to get laid. The first thing I have to say is that we can't focus on corruption control as a political marketing operation; that's clear. Neither create offices to equip them with content without having developed a strategy first of all. And, obviously – and I'm sorry that I'm addressing all of you – I can't take over the office of this Parliament's responsibilities or government action. Preventive measures must be implemented to minimise risks, to eliminate structural disease and, in any case, to do, to create, to establish a strategic plan of fight against corruption. Strategic plans have been made against labor left-handedness, against drugs; all of us remember. In the month of February, it was published at the State buttonlet, at the State official buttonlet, the national strategy against organised crime and hard crime; the trunk axes, the transverse axes, the working groups that had to start working, the reference marks were assigned to them... And why don't we draw up a strategic plan, which is what allows the fish in the puzzle to fit in? The OECD does this, and even the G-20 is thinking about it, which is a necessity that needs to be done in this sense. I didn't just come here today to do a retrospective and point out what's missing to do. I want to propose a future or I want to propose a future where corruption is definitely one of the themes that is permanently on its agendas. And I'll make them some of the proposals that the office makes and that, for another band, we've done at other times, especially on election vigils from past elections. I have to say that you will not find any news that you do not know, because most of these proposals that I make have already made them the office and have been admitted to the committee for the better part of the..., lastly, the Cemcord, against corruption, measures against corruption and democratic regeneration, which were already made at the time; of the seventy-six and seat, these are the ones that we considered to be most relevant. So, they're self-coordinations that you've done, that the first ones have to be you, and some... and most... well, they're all in the power seat. I will talk about those that I consider most important, such as conflicts of interest; the protection of whistleblowers; the reform of the Administration and the civil service; the election of control bodies; the impulse with integrity measures; the supervision of public contracts, and an aspect of the interest groups that I want to matise, which is referred to or which is specifically aimed at which we call'regulatory petition'. In relation to conflicts of interest and incompatibilities, the year 2016, at a later date, we presented in this Parliament an extensive and important study on conflicts of interest in the Public Administration of Catalonia, finally, successfully, because this Parliament edited it, then; therefore, you have it, you have it at your disposal, and, moreover, you have assumed it. Because the risks..., we had detected that, in the vast majority of the complaints we had, if we had acted before, we would have found a conflict of interest situation poorly resolved, and, if we had solved it well, we would not have found ourselves with the subsequent situation. Therefore, we need to manage, because we are doing risk. In this case, it may amend the declaration rules. It's not that every one of us..., to whom I correspond; first, we have to establish to whom I correspond..., not the same obligations to everyone, it's not the same someone who has to make decisions of a type that the one who has to make decisions of another type. Therefore, it must be the declaration of interests, the declaration of activities, the declaration of relations..., it must also be in relation to those aspects that a decision must be made. And should the expected fitness check be reviewed? There is a lot of question about technical skills, capacity, and so on, I would say politics, but we should ask, we should also ask ourselves in this respect. And reinforce the incompatibilities regime, with the follow-up after the charge. Obviously, the OAC here can complete a paper, because it was presented in these seventy-eight fulls that our report has in this situation. And do not forget, in the elected bodies, that conflicts of interest must also be settled. On the issue of alerters, there is a directive from the European Union which is about to be adopted. I understand that this chamber has some proposals for laws that have been merged, and that, in any case, it is in practice. Let us worry, the Community directive will mark us..., even if it refers to the aspects that they have to do with the interests of the European Union, the economic interests of the European Union, but it will mark some lines that we can assume, or not, and, in any case, make our own lines. The OAC's competence in this sense was already the original law. Interestingly, Law 14/2008 is attributed to the anti-fraud office, which is empowered to defend whistleblowers, and it points out, because it does not express how this is to be done. It would be time, if this law is developed, if this law is approved, that this is indeed faith. If of all the aspects that I will touch only in order to make one, the important thing would be, in my opinion, in the area where my opinion is the most important, which is what refers to the Administration and the public service. The professionalization of the Administration must be strengthened; it is the only way to avoid the creation of client networks, to distinguish clearly, which costs us a lot, between the role of management government and the political role, which is the role of political direction. Here there is a general consensus; finally, uplifting people who have studied this assumption, such as Jiménez Asensio or how, later, in a book Organizing Leviatan, one of our fellow citizens, who is exercising his chair in Sweden, in Gothenburg, the Lapuente, the Victor Lapuente, with Dahlström, who accompanies him, a teacher, say it very clearly, they make it very clear: it must be professionalized, it must be differentiated, because, in the end, in any structure of the state, what is important is that the public function exclusively has a vision, it is the general interest; it must have no other vision, it must have only the interest of general character. And, then, the better of the system of choice of control organs I think today has special transcendence for this chamber, and, moreover, there are reasons for opportunity. We complain that there is mistrust of the citizenry in relation to the institutions, but then we are not very curious to take care of these organs..., others, but these control organs, which is what we would have to do. And some of these have to be done for the Parliament of Catalonia. And avoid temporaryity, prolongation of functions. That to the co-legitimate bodies that are thought to be because there are various people there are no less, that whatever they may be, this is an obligation of all of us, but in particular theirs. I pray that, in any case, they make every effort to ensure that institutions are not weakened. And I recommend that you do a review of Law 14 of the year 2005, which is about parliamentary designation and eligibility assessment criteria. I, come on, I say you're doing a review, because it's so simple, so simple, so simple that basically you don't say what else you're gonna do. Well, I think it would be good for this subject to be seriously planted. Let's go to public contract. To the developed countries, about 20 of the GDP, of the gross domestic product, is destined to contracts of the public services, it is to say, in short, of the Administration. The European Union assigns it as an area where corruption problems can be generated; at the office, 50_percent of complaints fall within this area of contract. The 2014 European Union Directive 24 calls for the creation of a guarantee in the application of the contract. This directive has been transposed with a state law, which is complex and has many problems, surely, and is under discussion, but there is one aspect that I would like to highlight in this chamber. This law creates a supervisory authority and leaves the possibility that it is believed, in this case, a Catalan authority, to supervise the public contract. In the functions of this authority, which must be independent, I remember, the external control bodies that exist now – I'm not talking exclusively about the office, I'm talking about all the control bodies that there are at these times – could perform functions of taxation, efficiency in contract or prevention and fight against corruption. By using these instruments, we will do or can do one of the most relevant, most important things, is to make active prevention, not wait for the case to be produced, but we can act before. We must not expect damage, corrupt acts to be produced, to create this authority, Members of Parliament and Members of the European Parliament, to the control body, to attribute them to the proper competences and their functionalities, and to continue in this line. I said I'd make a reference to the registers of interest groups. With the Law of Transparency, this has been completed, and, even though we may think that there is a little more development missing, I am aware that it is already close to this development. But there's one thing I'd like to highlight before all of you. I've called it a regulatory petjada. One of the important aspects is that, when there is a generation, a gene of a standard, of the rank that follows, we need to know those who have a competence to, in fact, draw up all the file that will ultimately be converted..., well then the decree, whether it is instructed or followed by a law of this Parliament, all of these, with whom they have been talking, but not only with whom they have been talking, but what they have been talking about and, if there are documents, that these documents are in the file. Surprisingly, some of our collaborators with the office set up a study of these. And in a way I would say purely speculative and without any methodological rigour, because we did not have mediums, in the realm of government, we tried to know of certain norms that had participated in it. First, which would be the standard files of each department, there was no such reference; we had to go to the personal agendas of the people concerned. Once we were on the agenda, we found that it did not contain the manifestations of the debate, of the conversation that, in any case, had been brought to an end. And obviously, when a person who has a relevancy in an economic environment, or in an environment that is not an economic one, but is of interest, we can put it on a case-by-case basis, to put it on the other side of the spectrum, as if it were an ecological one, it is representing ideas, it is representing them, and it is all legitimate in this aspect, but we need to know; we need to know that if a file has been brought, this file must be recorded. Well, in any of the cases that we found – we were able to make a mistake and only those were – he didn't find a file. In an annex in one of them he found a small part of one of them. This is not transparency; in this we have to go further. Citizenship has the right to know whether the rule is a rule which, in other words, benefits or does not benefit some people or some other people, with some interests, better said, or with some other interests. I'm done. As far as conclusions are concerned, corruption is not dominated by much less. We have to keep working. And I doubt that at some point we have the absolute certainty that everything is done, because historically..., a year and a half ago, there was a convention on corruption here in Barcelona and the conclusions that were drawn are that, well, historically..., what's going on is that it's adapted, adapted to the circumstances of each case, to the contexts of each case. Therefore, it is not dominated and we must continue to work. How do we work? So as I said: do not make electoral marketing and but strengthen our institutions; as our institutions are weaker, it will be worse, because it is developing more. The professionalism of the public management, so I gave them transparency, the regulatory oversight, please, let's do it. Mirin, corruption represents, according to the studies that have taken place, between 1.5 and 3_percent of GDP, approximately. I count the amounts that we could... if we were clear in this respect, that we could go to other social purposes that we all lack. I ended up referring, as I can't be in any other way, to the law of the office. This one was in the process of last year's legislature. This director appeared before the poll and exposed the most relevant references he considered. Well, it's over, it's over, but I... I'd say there's a demand here that it's taken over another time or that it's gone through another way of proposing or projecting the government. That's what I'm... if I get away with right now, which would be the best. But he's here, he's here in the room already, with the basics made. Despite the doubts that the office was able to generate in its first moment, and even now in some cases, there have been no double-checking – there have been no double-checking –; we have no problem with the prosecution, we have no problem with the jurisdictional sphere. And, with the other control institutions, we are very careful not to climb what they are, in short, the competences of the other control institutions. Therefore, we trust, precisely, that these are to be done. But I would mean that we don't want to be the office of small things. We want to be an office suitable for the company to what they owe us. The law has wrapped up and to look around to see that the strategies of struggle count corruption every time are more in one line, for a gang, preventive, with conflict management, etc., as I said, and that we need this tech society in which we are already allowing ourselves great social advances, and also has its risks, and one of them is corruption. But it is true that with these technological advances there can also be a lot of corruption problems, of course, and we too will have better ones, but we need to be adapted to them. So every time we think of an institution of control, of fighting corruption, we have to make it right not to the society we have today, but to the one of tomorrow's past, because, if not, when we arrive tomorrow's past, we will also be late. Well, I just told them that my considerations have been a little..., it's possible that you're going to last at some point. I am very happy to compare before this Parliament, to celebrate with you this first decade of the anti-fraud office; that, despite all the interbanks, I think we have improved. That's why it's time to think about the strategy, as I said, and working on the work of your own period is much more effective for all of you. Thank you for your attention. Mr. President... [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.273.0	Thank you, Mr. Gimeno, for the intervention. We then open the turn of the representatives of the parliamentary groups for a maximum of two minutes each. And it has the word, in the first place, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy José María Cano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.274.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Deputies, deputies, councillors, councillors, audience who attends today, good afternoon to all. First of all, Mr Gimeno, I would like to thank you for appearing before this Chamber today. Thank you very much for giving us your vision of the present and future of the office you have been running since 2016. I have to be honest with you, and I think that throughout your exhibition I felt more like we were talking about a Nordic country than about Catalonia itself. An office that has performed without great success ten years of operation, and that has not only not had any notable success, but has also experienced very turbulent episodes, as you said, coming the anti-fraud office itself to also fail to comply with the laws and regulations that it was supposed to ensure in terms of public procurement and transparency. Because, look, talking about the Anti-Fraud Office in Catalonia should be talking about how to prevent and investigate corruption in our autonomous community, it should be talking about preventing and investigating the possible illegal use or destination of public funds, which is fundamental, because we are talking precisely about public money, which is the money that citizens contribute through taxes, and which is the fruit of their effort and their work. Therefore, to combat corruption is to protect citizens, to protect those who rob them, misappropriate and divert public money that they pay with their taxes in order to give them a destination different from their purpose; resources that will no longer be able to be used to improve the quality of life, they will no longer be used to improve public services, they will no longer go to dependency, health, or education... They're resources of everyone who goes astray illegally. And it is also a scourge, as you said, that depresses our work as politicians and, more importantly, depresses the institutions, putting at risk the confidence of citizens in the democratic system, and also feeding nationalism and populism. In Spain this contempt is suffering with all its cruelty, and specifically in Catalonia; it is one of the regions where there have been more cases of corruption, and which is a consequence of the client networks and the plots of interests created, precisely, by nationalisms since the time of Pujol father. Therefore, the existence of an anti-fraud office makes sense, and that is why it was created ten years ago. What happens is that every anti-fraud office has to be valued for its effectiveness and effectiveness. But ten years have passed since its creation and the Catalans continue to have, as you well said, virtually the same perception they had of corruption at the time. According to the barometer you mentioned, in 2008, from the anti-fraud office itself, more than 80_percent of Catalans consider that corruption in Catalonia is a very serious or quite serious problem, and more than 70_percent considers that in our autonomous community there is a lot or quite corruption. And it's that, in short, that's the picture of reality, that's the picture of the 3-percent Convergence, that's the photo of the Pujol clan, that's the picture of the bites, that's the picture of the tripartite, that also looked the other way, and that's the picture of the paella in Cadaqués of Mr. Puigdemont and Mr. Trapero. To say also that, in Catalonia, when we talk about corruption – in that I do not agree with you – we do not talk about specific cases, we talk about an organized corruption network around nationalism, with the aim of taking what is of everyone, and that is the reality that citizens perceive. And we have met with an anti-fraud office that has been unable to take the initiative in any of these cases, an anti-fraud office that in all those years has been mingled with the environment; in an autonomous community where there are political parties that change their names every six months, with the sole aim of trying to make up their history of corruption; parties that have formed part of the various governments, with an absolute lack of willingness to implement concrete measures to combat this corruption, with an absolute lack of political will to prevent millions of euros from straying from their destiny, to prevent those who were warmed up from taking over those millions of euros. And while they did that, they cut and left social policies without resources. And in the meantime they have tried to keep Catalan society dormant and alienated, with a speech that was still seeking and seeking today to feed victimism and hatred towards the rest of the Spaniards, talking about that supposed fiscal expoliation, when here, those who were stripping and stealing citizens were them, it was the nationalists. And when the cow no longer gave for more, and began to complicate the judicial situations, and began the siege embargoes, they went on to try to cover it all up with the great stellate and then with the great yellow bond. But, of course, there is not in the stellate world so big, big enough to cover up all that corruption, and that great stellate, that great bond or that great banner also has associated with continuing to divert funds into illicit activities. And all this in the face of the inaction of the anti-fraud office, which has seen as it has gone through, without acting, all the misappropriation of the process: it has gone through all the misappropriation of the 9-N consultation; it has gone through all the misappropriation of public funds towards October 1st, towards the coup against democracy; it has gone through all the flows that are diverted towards what they call various state structures and chiringuitos; it has gone through the waste in embassies with the sole objective of speaking ill of Spain; it has gone through the Diplocat, with its expenses in which they call international observers, with its movements of luxury, with its copious and splendid banquets, watered, yes, with broths of six hundred euros; it has gone through what these gentlemen have wasted on international lobbies, with the sole objective of depressing Spain. In short, he has gone ahead, without acting, an entire organization created precisely to do what the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia has to prevent and investigate: the illegal destiny of public resources. And that stage already reaches your management, Mr Gimeno, and in fact it is a stage in which we are immersed today. That's why I don't see any reason to celebrate after ten years from the anti-fraud office, when today we still have evidence that this government, acting like a gang, is diverting public money to commit illegalities. And that is why, Mr Gimeno, I want to share with you a reflection, and I want to do so with all due respect and appreciation to you and to your professional career, and also to your ideas and proposals that you have raised today to improve the anti-fraud office, of which I am already telling you that the parliamentary group I represent is taking good note and we will appreciate. I also announce that we will soon register a bill for the reform of the Anti-Fraud Office in Catalonia, which complements what we have already presented on the fight against corruption, and on the protection of complainants. But, as I said to you, Mr Gimeno, that you are a judge, what I cannot conceive of is that an anti-fraud office, whose mission is precisely to prevent and investigate the fraudulent use of public resources so that no one can use them for illicit purposes, keep silence and be unable to act, be unable to act to prevent, to investigate, to alert and make recommendations before the evidence of a government and separatist groups that are using public money, the money of all Catalans arbitrarily, using those for illicit purposes. Because, why is it that we do not act in front of those who use what is everyone's to finance illegalities such as those we suffered on October 1, 2017, the year in which they already directly struck democracy? A blow to democracy that they perpetrated, precisely, with public flows, with the resources that should have been used to improve the well-being of citizens, to improve education, to improve health, to improve care for people. And it is that at this moment it is more meaningful, if possible, the firm action of the institutions, because these gentlemen have threatened democracy, have broken the coexistence, have played with the economy of the families. It's a time when institutions are threatened, they're kidnapped. And an anti-fraud office like the one you run can't afford to profile itself right now. And this is no time to meddle with the environment to avoid facing reality. Mr. Gimeno, do not allow separatist parties to use the anti-fraud office to whitewash their actions. Don't, because what's going on is very serious. At the moment, we have to counter attacks on our democracy and we have to defend institutions against those who do not respect the law. Right now all the institutions and each of us have to scrupulously carry out our task. And to be very firm before those who do not respect the law, because not to respect the laws always, always, amounts to not respecting the rights and freedoms of citizens. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.275.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC - Forward Units and has the word of Congressman Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.276.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, MPs and MPs... Mr. Gimeno, well, we appreciate this appearance, which I think – you have also indicated – is the first time that it is produced, the first time that it is produced before the Ple a appearance of a director of the anti-fraud office, all right when you two years ago from the creation of this office. You mentioned, at the time of the genius and the beginnings of the anti-fraud office, that this Jesuit mental reserve respects its creation, which, in part, could be understandable for the innovator of the office at the time it was installed, at least in the institutional system of Catalonia, and in part because at that time it was difficult to see, because it had not started to run, until what point an entity could function, an organism that had a relatively narrow margin of any actual, which was that moment that went between the suspension and the index, right? , because there are indications of a possible crime, therefore, it is necessary to refer the actions to the prosecution or to the court it is responsible for. And, therefore, there were, in this sense yes, these mental reserves. Others can respond to other motiuses, but for the characteristic firsts of the mental reserve it is difficult to escape which could be the motiuses. The truth is that you give years after your creation... Certainly, at a time when there was the end of the governments of understanding, and some must remember that then he qualified as Dragon Khan, those governments of understanding. How are things, huh? , as a perspective is acquired over time and can be contrasted now that it was a period, therefore, stable strength, compared to the present. In any case, this office, after a few years, I believe that one of the first things to be seen, and we have had occasion to debate in the different appearances that to present the annual memos have happened in this Parliament, is that despite progress in the degree of knowledge of the existence of the office, and of the possibility to attend it with some complaint, the fact is that it is still relatively little known for the city council, a little more by the municipal groups. Because – and I think we haven't spoken in some of the appearances as well – the fact is that you wouldn't want to space, let's say, the statistics you put on the table respect the first quarter of 2019; I don't know which specific complaints you can mention these eighty, but the fact is that in the vicinity, in the immediate vicinity of a municipal election there is always only a certain summary of the complaints that are presented before the anti-fraud office, because, as a minimum, they facilitate a first holder who, like at least, places some possible action in doubt. I don't know if that's the case, huh? , certainly can inform us, respects the typology of these first eighty complaints. But the fact is that, in general, they still seem relatively few, taking into account the size of the population in Catalonia, the combination of the administrations that exist in Catalonia and, therefore, the size of the administrative expedients in which there could potentially be some mispractic, some deviation from what it would be necessary to do and, therefore, in some way, that both from the Government of the Government of Catalonia and from the same office are making major efforts to spread... – I know they get angry, huh? So, what I'm asking for is an increase, I don't say it doesn't get worked out, but... – major efforts to spread the existence of the office, its functioning, which are the ways to present to it aspects that may be suspicious, right? , to be able to file complaints with him. This would be a first consideration with respect to a very general balance, much above these first two years. That he knows more, that he uses more. And a second reflection could go around the office, right? From the same office. We know the limitations; certainly, certainly, the thickness of the anti-fraud office's actions are motivated by interposed complaints, let's say it, on its own, obviously, but it seems to us that it might be possible to make a greater effort with the office's actions on the part of the office, with some campaigns, let's say it, in the same way that the Treball Inspectorate organizes, to make a simile, so, for the big broc. It would be possible to organize periodically, before looking for those who identify themselves as the most delicate moments of any procedure or processing, those points in which the office, sometimes, in reports, has identified that there may be major problems, therefore, making periodic campaigns, which, in some way, allow officers to act in these points that are considered, to put it this way, hot spots. Then, and you made reference to it, there's all the prevention pocket. Sounds like a phone call to us, doesn't it? , this task, which is produced to try to avoid that it is giving these evils practice, is giving these cases of corruption in your case. And here, so, I want to ask you... I know you've come to make a balance of the two years, but I want to ask you who the plans are, right? , of development of prevention tasks; there has been some reference, but ask them, if it can be, that in the time that they will then dispose, therefore, I can deepen it. It also seems to us very interesting that, more than by doing, as a fan, we attach to the standards that are being processed in Parliament, can do... – as they have done on occasions and as they have done now even from this same faristol – without going into detail, but simply indicating who the standards could be changed, so this whole task of proposal, to put it this way, of lege ferenda, right? I mean, who are the normative changes in the law that would have to be introduced in order to shield our..., go, our institutions, to make them uncomfortable, to make sure that in the procedures of any type there are better guarantees that there will be no cases, let's say, of corruption. And then, I also find that it's interesting everything you have to see with the studies and reports that you can do on your own. He hasn't mentioned any of us very recently and very comprehensively, respecting the question of conflicts of interest, of the collusion of interests. And we think that here, then, there's also room to run, isn't there? , and what could there be, let's say, work that could provide the chamber of elements of judgment also to legislate, if that is the case, or as at least to urge the government to do, or stop doing, certain things. And lastly, the formary aspect to which you refer, which, in fact, we think is very necessary, among other things, because for a long time it insists on forming respect for these things, in the end, let's say, in the fight against corruption, we always go a little behind the gear at the time of mocking the norm, and mocking, let's say, the systems of vigilance. And, therefore, a continuous formation respects this, not only to the staff of the Administration in general or..., let's say, you, for another band, and it is not strictly in terms of formation, but they also make suggestions to political parties and formations, so, a continuous formation in this sense, I think it is absolutely necessary. Well, in the end, organisms like today's appearance, autonomies, are absolutely necessary to complete a system of control, vigilance, prevention of corrupt practices. Because, I could not avoid, feeling it, evoking one of the debates that we held in the not-remembered previous parliamentary term with the deputy Salellas, in which, in some way, retreat..., in retreat, go, a position, let's say, of anthropological pessimism, because, I said to him: "Listen, look, it's that corruption, in the background, or the possibility of corrupting'removed the human condition. And I was insisting, I was insistent by Congressman Salellas – I have no intention of polemizing, now, huh? – but I insisted: "No, this is about capitalism, I said. Well, I understand that a mode of production like the capitalist, the intrinsic logic of which is the maximization of the benefit without social or environmental consideration, so, obviously, favors corrupt practices, but, escorted, in the system..., in the mode of slave production, in the mode of feudal production there has been corruption, in self-proclaimed modes of real socialism there has been corruption... Therefore, what I want to say with this is that we should always seek to know that human beings are not seraphic, and that we are fallible, and that therefore it will always be necessary to have mechanisms to prevent corruption, mechanisms to pursue it, mechanisms to punish it, when it is produced, and yet it is clear that we have not sunk the very people who are desirable, even assuming that any system is fallible and that any person is fallible. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.277.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. Make it clear to him, Mr. Pedret, that the director of the office does not intend to reply to him, so, say so, he will not be alienated if he does not answer his questions. Anyway... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Next is the return of Congressman Lucas Ferro, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.278.0	Two years after the creation of the anti-fraud office, an office hidden in the heat of Catalonia in the 3_per_cent and given years later it seems that it has not yet reached its destination. And today we want to start precisely by balancing these two years. The Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia is no more than probably one of the most remembered of the history of the Parliament of Catalonia. Sometimes, to say the truth has a special impact, much greater than to say lies or to fill in this Parliament of propaganda, for this reason, to say that the assumptions ‘are the most social of the history not working telenews, and, on the other hand, the day President Maragall broke the Catalan oasis saying that memorable phrase of ‘you have a problem and this problem is said to be 3_per_cent opened all the telenews. The evidence that Catalonia's main party was engaged in mobsters and commissionists corrupting our institutions was a secret, "you see, that it only needed someone who said it, but the problem is not just to tell the truth to the face, the problem is to dare to take the compromise to break the loyalties that have made corruption a form of government in Catalonia. To break the Catalan oasis there were two paths: either to declare war on corruption in Catalonia, to Catalonia of public private concerts, of privatizations that have ended in court, of commissions of subam to finance political parties, and of foundations converted into agencies of recovery without a public interest, in short, to declare war on Catalonia that destroys benevolent while parasitizing institutions, and this was a complicated way, this was a difficult way, but it is a way that follows feel necessary. The other way was more placid, was to try to rebuild as was the Catalan oasis, to rebuild the Catalonia of ''this now does not touch, of ''that we will take ill, of ''that if you follow much here, will end up as all the whites of the niu, and therefore to gamble, for an exercise of transformation, of those who fan of the propaganda on regeneration the exercise itself of regeneration, without ambitious public policies at the end, and I believe that if we balance the creation of the anti-fraud office, it was more an act of propaganda than a declaration of war to Catalonia of the bark that parasitize our institutions. You said it and I shared it. Regeneration is not a question of marketing, it is a question of power, it is a question of unravelling the entanglement of business, urban and political relationships that constitute public life in Catalonia. Discussions on the creation of the anti-fraud office were already a statement of intent, certainly because in Catalonia of the "socio-vergency", the two major parties had a lot of interest in an anti-fraud office that monitored the activity of the Generality, the deputies, the associations of municipalities and the assemblies. But, still, three and a half years after that ple that broke the catal oasis, the creation of the anti-fraud office was approved in this Parliament. The chronicles describe that process as the will to make an anti-fraud office to the measure of electoral propaganda, and not to the height of assuming a regeneration, an agenda of regeneration in Catalonia. From "Carod-Rovira's 2003 free words and hands today: neither audit of contracts nor review of public-private concerts, nor study of the public utility of privatizing our public services, nor an ambitious regeneration agenda on the table. We are clear who did not want the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia: neither CiU nor the People's Party, who voted against it. What a surprise: the two most corrupt parties in our history, did not have much ambition to create an anti-fraud office in our country. We are also clear who made propaganda about regeneration an empty bet: the Republican Left, which has gone down to the extent that it has occupied responsibilities of government, and has renounced to lead an agenda of change and regeneration in this country, and has renounced to assume an audit on the contracts and privatizations that have ended in Catalonia during these years. And we also have clear who put his hands on the wheels to force it: the PSC, which wanted to make the anti-fraud office an office that fell from the government and that was not independent, which extended during a legislature the creation of the anti-fraud office. I read a chronicle of the Diary. it is, that I think it is enlightening about who wanted an anti-fraud office to measure, and about where it remained the impulse to regenerate Catalonia: "From the very first moment the proposal generated suspicions between the two great parties of Catalonia, CiU and the PSC. In the first legislature were the impediments that Ernest Maragall, who claimed that the OAC would be subordinate to the Government and not be completely independent. Those who made regeneration an empty bet, always find travel companions among those who have never volunteered to change Catalonia. So the OAC began to walk more like an electoral promise than an ambitious regeneration agenda. No presupposition, no clear competitions, no very clear functions, more intent than not making any more sound than the inaugural act that inaugurated it. But, god-in-law, if it did: 2011 was the time to appoint the second director of the anti-fraud office; but, now, the context was already different. It ruled, again, Convergence and Union, the same Convergence and Union that had promised that if it had absolute majority it would eliminate the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia. Luckily, he didn't have it, and luckily he never had it again in this country. And in this case it was the Union, which was right that it was not an operational mass. She was submerged in the Pallerols case, for which she was convicted as a part of a lucrative title, to finance the party irregularly, diverting European subsidies for training courses. And, of course, in a circumstance like this, it's best to put the eye on who controls the Anti-Fraud Office in Catalonia. I read chronically: "Association, heavily blamed for various judicial investigations, was maneuvering for the director's replete. On June 2011, former deputy of Unió Manuel Silva, home of the hard core of Josep Antoni Duran and Lleida, offered Daniel de Alfonso to President Mas. And, said and done, he was a director. But someone who takes the lead, when they take it back like this, it's hard to get it right. And it didn't end well. Exquisite for Operation Catalunya, and accused of the charge of overcharge as the director of the anti-fraud office. This is the price that Catalonia has to pay to create an anti-fraud office with more propaganda will than to lead an agenda for regeneration in this country. The price of impunity and the shame of seeing an entire director of the anti-fraud office cease to be corrupt and to participate in mob plots. The final sadness of an announced death, of a government of corrupts, which, unlike King Mides, turned into corruption and decay all that he touched. And today we have the opportunity to start a third stage in the anti-fraud office. Now that there's no majorities, we've got the opportunity to break through with the intruders of the past. I've got everything to do. Catalonia still needs to regenerate and put the magnifying glass at the entrance to public-private contracts that we have today in all our institutions. And the office here has to be a central pillar to put on and create more decent institutions. And this happens, we understand, first, to strengthen the skills of the anti-fraud office. We don't want an office to measure, we want a strong office, which is dedicated, as its director said, to great country things. As long as they are assigned external supervision functions of the contract of the public sector of Catalonia. That the office has recognized powers to oversee contracts, to oversee their compliment and to demand transparency in public power. Second, and very important, I need to provide you with resources. Transparency is an investment that requires material resources, economic resources and personal resources to complete its function. And third, I want to give you regulatory authority. That it has the capacity to organize itself autonomously and that it is operational. In short, that the anti-fraud office is a body with sufficient power to lead a democratic regeneration agenda in Catalonia, which also has the capacity to act and interact with the territory. All those citizens, governors, gatherings who want to promote a regeneration to their territories, so that they hold the Antifrau Office of Catalonia as a clear referent. To the director, we told him to wait for the third to win. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and with this I'm done – that you demand that the anti-fraud office be independent, be strong and have the skills to plant in front of the Catalonia of corruption. He'll always have us in his corner to do it. We want him out, we want him to be uncertain and, above all, that he does not fail us, not only us, but at the conjunction of the city of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.279.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of MP Carles Riera, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.280.0	Well, thank you, President. In the first place, Director General, our recognition, which your intervention today reinforces us, we must say in advance, all that you have identified, as a main theme, the theme of the professionalization of the direction of the Public Administration. This tells us at a time when there are precisely a large number of other charges that at these times are at stake depending on the marketing of the parties that support the government, and in some cases in this falling ball also enters the Socialist Party. Therefore, you point out well, in the sense that it would be precisely a professionalization and that the high levels of direction, above all, are registered by criteria, therefore, of rigour, transparency, professionalism and solvency. Well, in this chamber there has passed and there are still parties condemned for illegal financing: the Socialist Party, Filesa; Democratic Convergence, Palau; the People's Party, the Gürtel; Democratic Union, Tourism and Work... Power" socio-vergent involving corruption" socio-vergent– perhaps anthropological, Mr Pedret, in this case – with the pujolism at the front: president, secretaries general, a convicted three-tier and two more accused. Deia Artur But that the Administration was a public contract and that precisely the public contract in Catalonia was impeccable, it was "untouchable. So the Director General of Infrastructures, which is the main focus of public procurement in Catalonia, charged for 3_per_cent. Clear, water. And it is that the outsourcing of services and public resources to private providers has been, and will be one of the main sources of corruption and corruption, together with the financing of matches and revolving doors, among others. The problem is that these corruptions and corruptions are not an occasional problem, they are structural and frequent in bidding, contracting and managing public work. And we should also talk about tax havens, of which the Catalan economic, business and financial elites benefit with impunity. Did we see that the fight against this corruption is a priority of the Catalan Government and of the institutions responsible for monitoring, preventing and preventing these practices? Not at the moment – not at the moment – as we do not see in the success of the governments of the Spanish State, nor in the European institutions. And in all these institutions, in change, we continue to find some of the parties with more cases of corruption in Europe unpunished. And we want to set an example, if they want, closer, much closer and more domestic. Why do the parties that support the government, and in this case also with the support of the PSC, not want to close the district council of Barcelones, with an independent, objective and neutral audit? So we don't know. We don't know what's under the captive in this case. But we will also set them another example; we have not talked enough in this chamber, and we have not yet found a clear and satisfactory solution: the case of DGAIA. How can it be, as has been reported on various occasions by various media outlets, that awards for the management of juvenile centres over the past few years have been made, without publicity and with a public amount of money up to 370_million euros, without effective public control and without transparency, with a system of public subcontracting that precisely favours falsely unprofitable undertakings or entities to negotiate with such an important and sensitive sector for the benefit of the child care sector? Clearly, this is made easier because, precisely, as at least 80 per cent of the seats in this sector are managed by private hands and, therefore, corruption land of all kinds of corruption. And, look, we are very clear about the solution to this problem. We propose, we ask, to the Government and to all the institutions of the Generality, that they be radical in the fight against corruption, fraud and revolving doors, that they return ownership and management of resources and public services to public institutions, and do so by transparency, for the benefit of people, efficiency and sovereignty. And a few questions, which I already know you won't answer, but at least because I'm taking note of it. Is your office investigating the AIFM case? What do you think of the foundations of political parties? Because we have moved from restrictions on the financing of parties to broad handcuffs and indulgence with foundations, from illegal commissions to donations that whitewash corruption. In 2013, his office presented the Government with fifty-one anti-corruption measures. In 2015, the office itself recognized that only 7_per_cent had been completed. What's the status of the 2019 question? I, for the last time, turn doors. We seem to have managed to put them together, but not to avoid them. Mr Santi Vila, two years and one day after his incompatibility ended [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , file for a company that when it was in the government had favored. Last – and I finish, President – the first law of transparency known to the world: Sweden, 1766. Catalunya, 2014; let's go late. What do you consider it for, what do you do to your deployment? They are asking that today we have no occasion to discuss but that I hope that we can do so on future occasions. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.281.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of MP Esperança García, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.282.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, good afternoon, Mr. Gimeno. Look, I'm not the one who's spreading his birthday, the anniversary of the office, but I am going to make it out of a few statements that you and the entire office history have made. Miri, we, the People's Party, when the office was created in 2005, we started from a clearly sceptical position, among other things, because we believe, like the Union of Accounts, like the prosecution, that there were overlaps of functions, that is, that your office or office that you are running now could run in functional overlap with the rest of the mechanisms of control and investigation of the crime that we had in Catalonia. And we're still thinking the same thing, despite the fact that we made the effort in 2005 to vote in favour of it, because it's not said that we didn't intend to make it clear that at that time we had over the table, and it was just the case of 3% at that time, right? That said, if we look at what the assumption is, who is the staff assigned to the office and who are the data that you bring us today and the history of the past, we find that despite the 47_per_cent increase that you give us, which is from the memory of the past year, the reality is that the profitability and the dispatches that have been carried from the office are not enough. But it's not enough of the task I'm supposed to be developing, which is also the discovery of the second reported crime. Why am I telling you this? Home, I think that practically 5_million euros of presupposition, that is to say, practically twice as much as the agency we have in the Valencian Community, that only in fifteen_months has made 154 complaints..., already only the 154 complaints I believe it is to make 'hospital', especially because the first conviction, the first conviction that I obtained the office is after seven years of its creation, that is precisely the condemnation of the socialist mayor of Santa Margarida and the Monjos. But it is before, before we find ourselves with a report that is sent to the Commission of Investigation of the Palau case, in 2014, signed for the same office, which said that there were no reliable indications of irregular commissions between the Democratic Convergence. Then we saw the Palau case, how it is and how it ended, right? We also found ourselves with a few investigations respecting complaints that came to the office and ended up in non-res. I'll also ask him the same question they asked him here: that we have the scenes from the past that the office didn't find out or detect, and even signed a report that said there was no irregularity. But what's going on with Mr. Calvo? What's going on with Mrs. Borràs and the Catalan Letters Institution? What about the misappropriation and prevarication we've seen that they've been brought before the Supreme Court? Because, I say, you were in operation at that time, and you didn't detect any of the three: Mossos d'Esquadra, Supreme Court..., in other words, you haven't done anything at all since the last time I asked you about the lack of activity of the office. You said there's a very high perception of corruption in Catalonia, and that's true, and the barometer says so, but he said that even, man, it was a little oversized. And I will deny it with its own barometer, and in fact – what the polls say to it is that even though they have been witnesses – witnesses – of corruption in Catalonia, until a 22,5_per_cent has seen or suffered situations of nepotism, a 22 has witnessed it and a 30 of the polls have personally seen impropie behaviors in the work. That said, I think there's a lot left to do, and there's a lot left to do to work and a lot to do... There are things, initiatives that are very good, and I won't deny it– and that's to leave it a little sweet at the end of my intervention–, and it's a good initiative to lose integrity in the public contract that you've been pushing, as well as working with other institutions and having common strategies, despite the fact that this is an obligation for you to read in Article 15.3. But, well, they've made the announcement, and already it's fine, the photo, the collaboration with the rest of the institutions, but it was his obligation already for you, for itself, wasn't it? And I think it's also good that I give an initiative to the citizenry, that's to serve the bust of anonymous complaints, isn't it? Because, among other things, if it's fixed in its own barometer, one of the things that should alarm us a lot is that practically 30_percent of the people they report have for reprisals. We have to keep working and keep doing it with seriousness.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.283.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of deputy Gerard Gómez del Moral, for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.284.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, advisors, deputies, deputies, we're doing the analysis... well, "analysis may be too pretentious, in any case a debate, right? , on these first two years of the anti-fraud office and of the tasks that the director – to whom I greet – has, therefore, degenerate into this Faristol. And they've done all the rest of the groups, but I think it's important, in fact, to place the anti-fraud office in the monogramme that happened in 2005. I, too, am not going into a partisan battle, as at least in this appearance, because I believe that I do not agree with the objection that we are debating, despite the fact that the proposal of the anti-fraud office, my parliamentary group, my party, went, brought it into the 2003 election program, before all this, and that we more celebrated, and that more than 2005 goes on – and the director reminded me – since the United Nations Convention that was signed in 2003 in New York, in which he made a series of recommendations, say, from the world, right? in other words, prevention and the fight against fraud, corruption and in favour of transparency – year 2003. All this, effectively, therefore, developed in 2005, and it developed in this first legislature, which ended abruptly, and which, effectively, therefore, was not just because it ended abruptly, but there was a very intensive and even blocking debate on the part of some – it is true, I will not tell you that no –, it was not possible to pull forward; 2007 in the second legislature of the left government, it was once again on the table, and it was finally 2009 when this body, the office, was able to pull forward. And the first and second legislatures, effectively, there was intense debate. And one of the intense debates, and I think it's a success of that moment, of the deputies and the deputies that went... I was at that time going to the institute, so we say, as you can understand, I'm very far away, right? the debate, therefore, which could be celebrating among this hemisphere, but, finally, at that time it changed the inscription, because effectively to the principle of government, and it changed and it was brought to Parliament, it was brought that it took exclusively from the Parliament, and the director said it. Indeed, today we have seen..., three years ago scarcely, as these mechanisms with which power is given to the Parliament of Catalonia, so they have worked. And, besides, we saw how, in the end, the other great why there was in his moment were just duplicities, right? , and what was given at that time by certain parliamentary groups was that it had no space, an office of these characteristics. It is true that at that time it was innovative, there was no office similar to the Spanish State; as at the very least, it was the first – now there are several. And, two, it was said that there was no space because there was no competitive mark where we could act. And we have seen, therefore, a few years later, that the office has actually functioned with a certain normality and, moreover, I would say with an active collaboration with the other stages, we say, that they could be working on this aspect, followed by the Union of Accounts, followed by the prosecution, followed by the bodies that follow. So, we've seen how he felt and he's got his sense. And probably in these two years we could highlight three stages, right? The first, the one incarnated by Mr. Martínez Madero, who we also want to remember here today, who died suddenly, and, therefore, interrupted, didn't he? I said, his pocket at the office's head at a moment of impulse... and of a person, as was Mr. Martínez Madero, who came from the prosecution, and, therefore, who believed and made a firm bet just for this office. A second stage, in this incarnate case, led by Mr. De Alfonso, that I think very elegantly the current director did not want to enter, but that indeed it was actually the most complex stage. Not out of connivance, Mr. Cano, with independence or sovereignty, as you said, because precisely the director had to finish praying because he was on the way to making false news against independence – against independence. Therefore, I believe that you, as always, have a vision, a way that everything links you exactly to the same, and what you try is, in other words, to do: if the masters don't say what I want, then we go against the masters; if the bombers don't say what I want, against the bombers; if I don't know what, against the workers who follow, don't you? And I'm surprised because they have a very distorted vision. So, actually, that black stage is because they were making evidence against independence, because it was in a plot against sovereignty. So, frankly, the view that in this black stage, which is not only because of this, but also because they have been discovered above, has been said by Mr Riera; other types of irregular actions have been discovered in the case of the anti-fraud office, so I think they are very far away, frankly I say, and frankly, from the analysis you have made. And the third stage, therefore, that begins a little more than two years ago, three years ago, not above, of Mr. Gimeno, who today accompanies us, and to whom we also want to sincerely thank his pocket. Because I believe that Mr. Gimeno is creating the office. And that I think is the first step, much as it is, say, an evidence, isn't it? But I think it's the first step. The second, because they do not make a passive position, as is sometimes said. The anti-fraud office... we had the pleasure, during the work of the previous legislature, of your daily work with the conclusions and with the appearances of the Cemcord, didn't we? , of the commission that was studying measures, precisely, in order to be able to push. And besides, they have been, in fact, implementing a lot of things in this last period of time that I think are especially enriching, and, as a matter of fact, because of my humble pocket in this house, I also mentioned, say, the departure from the formation, that I think it is very important and that there has also been an impulse in this sense. And therefore, Catalonia we want to be a referent in this matter, we want to be a referent. And, in fact, I believe that the Law of Transparency, of the year 2014, by far the late – you are right – is, in fact, a referent, because it is a very ambitious law, of the most ambitious that there was at that time. And we have done many tasks precisely because we want to be a reference in this matter and because it is an active prevention, which is also one of the precepts that the office has enjoined and that the director makes reference to it, and that I remember that Mr. David Fernández just in one of his appearance said: "What it is to avoid dead, not count down, right? That's a phrase, say, pretty graphic and I remember. And, indeed, this is one of the main, necessary elements that we need to do. Therefore, in view of the future, I am listing some questions, some of which you mentioned and some of which we have spoken to you, but which are important. I want to highlight the anonymous advantage, that you have been the first institution, in the field you have, to push it; that you probably need to deepen, like legislation, a global standard, and that we also need to work in this house. But I think the anti-fraud office, for what it does to the anonymous profit... I think I should put it on the table and it seems like I haven't come out yet, but I think it's a really important matter that the office did last years. The law of alerters, which has just passed the first installment in Parliament, which is the approval of appearances. And so now there will be appearances and then there will be strictly legislative work to degregate, so, this future law, which also with the Community directive, but not only..., because it has a wide spectrum and that, moreover, I will not say that it is overlapped, but that it has some precepts, right? , that are incardinated in the usual work of the anti-fraud office. So there is no doubt that the law protecting alerters that has been working with civil society is one of the important issues. And so did you: interest groups. It's actually one of the questions that, like at least in this chamber and since the introduction of public agendas, so in Parliament..., and in the Generality, but in Parliament, this whole mechanism has already been pushed, hasn't it? , we can comb the documentation, we know who you are visiting, if you visit a group of interests will be registered beforehand. So, yes, steps have been taken, but, to be sure, this is also a question for the future. And probably, and there are only two, because the time was up, so there is all the question of the external supervision of the contract, that this is also a pending assumption and that it will also be necessary to address in a future, and also the role of the office in this concrete framework that the legislation provides or wants to provide for. And you doubt the inner rule of the same office, because you, Mr. Director, in fact, I think you're looking, don't you? A positive step and wants to do an important job, but it's also true, and we have to recognize it, that it was up to you to take over the office at a time that was not easy at all, and that you also had to assume internal duties, right? , to make all this change from this stage that just before we talked about to put up with the day – and to be able to look at the future – the anti-fraud office. Therefore, we, as we were then, are content with the anti-fraud office, its existence. And in any case we encourage them all to keep working to improve all those precepts, so that in the face of the future we can improve because your pocket is still better. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.285.0	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Finally, it's the return of Deputy Marc Solsona, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.286.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselors, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to everyone. Mr. Gimeno, director of the office, well, first of all, thank you for your appearance. As has already been said, it is the first time that the director appears here, in his plenary of the Parliament, that not in his parliamentary office, because he has also appeared in different committees; we have had the occasion to be able to feel him at the committee of the CAI, as well as that of the Union of Accounts. And I think that, with this intervention and with the interventions that have been made, we can practically remember the different interventions that have been made when you appeared in your Parliament in which one thing is the functions that we would like you to have the anti-fraud office and another thing is the functions that the anti-fraud office actually has. And that's why I understand that in your speech... in your exhibition here in the chamber, to make this counterposition of what we want to be the office with which the office really is, it's when we create this piece, let's say, of different interpretations, different, at the time of evaluating, let's say, the job and the role of the address, and in this case also of the office today, this year 2019, when we two years of the law that was approved here in the Parliament of Catalonia. I would say that... and understand the words, and getting back a little bit of the wire from some previous intervention they made in their parliament, I would say that today's best news is that today's office is not news, that it doesn't mean that corruption isn't news. And I put it in the context of what we're doing here today. And that's very important because we come from where we come. Two years of a law with which he does not intend to become an independent office, and on the OAC website he makes it very clear: "Acts with full independence and objectivity in the exercise of his functions and does not respond to instructions from any authority; it would be the consideration he puts on the web. From here there is another stage, which we carry two years from the office and we cannot congratulate everyone for the work done, another stage, where we say that changes, changes and discovers suddenly and again that at the office there was a canonada that connected directly with the keystrokes of the State. And that's very perverse. Therefore, this independent organ, which has to make a flag of independence, we see that, at once, in a period, it changes into a non-independent organ, and that it does something that it does not have to do, that is to influence politically. And that's very hard, and I think he's perverse. And that brought people, society in general, to ask themselves some questions. With those of "who watches the vigilante? , or, more complicated yet, "who watches the vigilante to watch the vigilante? And that's endless. It's like those movies that you open one door and then there's another; there's another, and there's another, and there's another, and there's another. The office to do was to put a topall to this feeling let's say infinite who watches who. And, of course, that, when I see him slashed, generates a brutal disaffection, and what does he do? So he loses prestige as well as the institution. You in your parliamentary office said that the institution goes to people, then to the directors there. This is important that he always keeps it that way. And, therefore, one of the challenges after two years is to regain that lost prestige, whether objectively or at the level of perception. And that is why we also have this responsibility in Parliament at the time of being able to do so. We don't want to be the office of small things. This also denotes, let's say, a willingness to become something more than the functions that currently exist at the office. We would say that, once we say that the office itself is not news today, and this is good news, that the institution must pass before the people and the directors, that we must regain prestige, the news – if it is to be news for the work that it is doing – it would be that we have more dispatches than ever, that we have a coordination of the service better than ever, that we had for the law, but that we have deployed it, that we have more complaints of alarmists and anonymous complaints than ever, this is a real bet, and that we have a will to be something else. And I say that because, in the intervention of Mr Cano and some other MP, let's tell him that they were talking about functions as if they hadn't read the functions of the office. And the law, in article 7.2, says the following: "The anti-fraud office cannot complete the corresponding functions of the judicial authority, the prosecutor's office and the judicial police, and it can investigate the same facts that are the object of the investigations. On the assumption that the judicial authority or the Ministry of Public Prosecutions initiates a procedure to determine the criminal prosecution of acts constituting at the same time the object of investigative activities of the anti-fraud office, the latter must cease all such actions and immediately provide all the information available to it, in addition to providing the necessary support to the competent authority. That's the functions that the OAC has. That we want some more? Well, there are the legislative procedures to be able to change them. But that's what it is for today. Therefore, at the time of assessing what the work of these two years is, we also need to put into operation and in the standard march what this also logically supposes. It is also always spoken of that the office has an observation function; of observance of legality, of behaviors, of everything that would be the subject of the public. And in this observation, and because of sometimes also of this evil use that comes to mind when it comes to the fight against fraud, sometimes there are also political connotations here. What do I mean by that? It is very easy – and before Congressman Pedret has also named it – to make a political use, let's say, of the anti-fraud office, or of what the sun supposes to make it a threat. And in the local world and in different institutions is always said, like political appeals, more quickly of opposition, to say: "This we will bring to the Union of Accounts. We'll take this to the fraud department. These two independent instruments are used to try to coerce, influence and influence the different dynamics. Therefore, many times this independence that should already be of the office..., we ourselves, that we should not be the guarantors, as in parliament, we are the first to use the office for a number of purposes for which it does not have its functions. And, therefore, also a reflection that we should do, after two years and after seeing all the evaluation that has been made of the office, is also to take it into consideration. What can't be is that, before, in an intervention also made by the Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomera, in the intervention of before, Congresswoman López said: "You have destroyed the health system, I suppose, because there was the issue here today of the anti-fraud office, because these words were: "You have destroyed the health system and the prosecutor's office fines it. I suppose it should also be by context, but in any case also, at the time of making according to what kind of statements about the different models that exist in the country and our management of reality, maybe we look not only at the economic indicators, but also at the political indicators that have made us as well as at the level of the country. And in any case – and this seems to me to be a little bit of a treat, let's say, monumental – the fact of saying and noting, as Congressman Cano says, that in the end the office that he has done is to cover up « a network of corruption organized by the nationalists. Hostia, so it's the other way around: here in the end, who politically authorized the OAC, it was precisely to be rude, slanderous, and persecute the independenceist bloc. So, here, the one before Congressman Gómez del Moral, maybe the reality is one, but he has many visions. But in any case, what's going on here is that not everyone attributes the same function to the office that I think should be done. From here highlight, therefore, and share with the director the theme of the futures. Here we are to talk about the past, to talk about the present, and it seems that we have a present with a director like you think, that you really want to make a good pocket, not to keep things small, but to go to bigger things, and that means to expand the competitive brand and the functions of the office. And here, if it can't be directly for changing or recovering the law, generate new regulations in which the leading actor office is also, huh? , direct from this new one, say it, system. And here there would be the future law of alarmists, there would be the subject of the reform of public administration and public service, there would also be this review of the control bodies, and also, as you said very well, with the subject of public contract, would try to take advantage of what leaves us with the rule in order to become also, if appropriate, Catalan authority for the supervision of public contract. That means involvement, winning to get better and, in any case, we can always be looking back; what we don't..., but it seems to me that today we can see that we have a point of exit, after two years, that allows us to look to the future with a willingness to get better. And, in any case, from the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, our firm commitment to the fight against corruption, therefore, is absolutely determined. And from here, as far as any action of this type is concerned, our group will either be at the side or pushing it to such an effect. Therefore, thank you very much, Director; thank you, Members of Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.287.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. You finish the interventions of the parliamentary groups, I would like to thank on behalf of the chamber the director of the Antifrau Office of Catalonia and the members of his team for their attendance at this appearance. [[Proposed law of the public service for oral health and creation of the Children's Dental Care Program in Catalonia (debate of totality)]] [[202-00040/12]] We continue now with the next item on the order of the day, which is the debate of totality on the proposed law of the public service of public attention to oral health and the creation of the program of child dental care in Catalonia. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules of Procedure, first of all, the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú may present this legislative initiative. On behalf of the proposing group, Mrs Marta Ribas has the word for a 15-minute period.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.288.0	Good afternoon. We are laying the groundwork for the dentist's service to become a universal service offering from the public service. This is the ultimate goal of this bill we're presenting this late, which we're going to start processing in this Parliament today. A law that claims to take Catalonia out of which of the Spanish autonomous communities in public care guaranteed in oral health for infants and young people, because this is our reality right now; this too is at the end of shame. A law, however, that does not conform only with this, we go more there; more there in the population that we intend to cover with this public service respect to which other autonomous communities make, but also more there in the model of coverage of the service that we plant. Come on, come on, come on, come on, More so as to the people who can benefit, because we do not only want to give this service to the child and youth population, but also to the adult population, progressively, but with the will that from the zero minute of application of this law we are, yes, guaranteeing a basic portfolio of dentist services to the entire vulnerable population, to the one that by income conditions, but also to the one that by handicaps, by definite malalties, or to women in labor or in lactation, have conditions that require special and specific oral health care, and obviously also for the child and youth population. And I said to them: we also go further than what other autonomous communities do in their own model. Because unlike what is done in children's oral health care programs, which are the only ones that exist in eleven autonomous communities, we don't put it with a concertation model, but with a direct public management model and from primary care. Because Catalonia can be made a more guaranteed model, a more guaranteed model of the same service, from right to right, from inserting it into the health care portfolio, but also from the control of its quality. We have normalized that a dentist's attention, that going to the dentist, that the dentist's service must be private. And it doesn't have to be that way, not just because oral health is an integral and important part of salvation and, therefore, directly affects the quality of life of the citizenry, but for what our own laws say. According to the principles of integral conception of health laws, both of the General Law of Health and of our own law, the LOSC, the Law of Health Order of Catalonia, oral health should be included in the services free of charge, in the services financed for the same public health system. In fact, the LOSC, in Article 8, says, foresees that "promotion, protection and improvement of oral health must be encouraged, with special emphasis on preventive aspects, while progressively incorporating the provision of health care. That's what the LOSC was telling us. Is she happy? Is it done? No, no, There is a need, there has been a fall of odontolegs created from the ICS and from the rest of the centers of the Siscat, but there has always been an incipient service, a minvat service, has not developed everything that allows us to the same LOSC, but it is also that, like the rest of the public services, also of the salvation, the last years has been retaliated. And the current reality that we know is that more than half or at least half of these existing odontology boxes are not covered, and therefore we don't have so much alone that we had years back, which was already insufficient. There is no guarantee that this oral salvation from the public system has consequences; consequences with a clear social bias. The 2017 Catalonia Health Survey tells us that 60_percent of the adult Catalan population has been a year or more since the dentist, and the xifra increases to 72_percent of the adult population if we only look at the popular classes. A 72_per_cent of the population does not usually go to the dentist. Why? So, according to the state health question, in this case, because a 12-percent of the population tells us they can't access the dentist for economic reasons. And we don't have to go - in the quests, but in the reality of the road and day by day. This reality of the street and of the day-to-day that is palpable in the municipal social services is what has made the Barcelona Assembly apostate for municipal oral health services, because who should have done it, the Generalitat, had not acted. And the joint venture has done all the brutal steps that exist to make public initiatives of these types that are currently with the existing Montoro law, of presuppositional instability, of financial sustainability, that limits creating public enterprises and has had to apply the imagination to the power. Barcelona, with this imagination and with this political priority to pay attention to what is the reality of our people, has set aside a free service for vulnerable people and has approved the creation of the first municipal public dentist in the State, a service that must facilitate access to the dentist at a higher economic price. As you know, it is a debate, it was approved to be sold at the Barcelona City Hall, and there practically all the parties of the assembly insist that it is the Generality and the State who will assume this competence and who will expand the coverage of dentists in the public portfolio of services, especially for the child, youth and vulnerable population. So here we are, here's where we play. The government has not done so; Parliament is where we have to ask the government to legislate for the government to guarantee it. Now it's time to prove it. We have done this with a proposal from the law, which is what we are debating today, because it can be a reality; a law to guarantee, as is the case with good principles, the basic care of oral health for everyone, public and quality. I am particularly grateful to the health team of the Barcelona Assembly for the work done, not only for the work done since the meeting, but also for the work done to promote this law that we are bringing to Parliament today. And I customize it in the Gemma Tarafa Health Commission, in the Davide and Albert, that they accompany us more today and to whom I thank you who are here. Certainly, you also diverge to the Barcelona Plenary some felt that it is not through municipal service that the reality of this sector can be changed. So we're-there, This proposal also includes two important elements for this change in the reality of the sector. One of the tools is a global planning tool on oral health in all sectors, which is the creation of the community dental office, an office in the mark of the CatSalut, which would allow, among others, the collection of data, the elaboration of studies on the needs of the population in oral health, etc. And the other tool that we also enter into the law is a strengthening of the control of the private sector on the part of the Generality, because there can be actions in the matter of more transparency, because there can be more pro-activity of the Generality as to health authority than it is, to combat bad practice in the oral sector, to avoid us fraud of the type iDental or Funnydent, that they have done so badly to the people of our country, and that is what really impacts and most negatively affects the private sector, this type of bad practice in the same private sector. Before I finish, I am already moving forward – as I will not reply later... – to challenge a couple of arguments that some of the parliamentary groups that will intervene to rule on the law will very likely question the proposal that we are putting forward. This is not a proposal against anyone, and less against dentists, less against those dentists who are patenting conditions of precarious work or who sound to raise their own Persian business, because their main competence is precisely that of mutuals, franchises or frauds in this sector. This is a proposal, in fact, that dignifies the profession of dentist, that can generate a dentist's occupation and that can involve a real change of background, a change of mind in society about the need to have a good oral health, and this is good for the dentist sector. And another of the answers I've already made: this is a viable proposal, now and here. It is not just because we are putting the proposal directly with a progressive implementation that the realism, but because we have made more numbers and we have seen that the dental services of the primary care have the capacity to assume the proposal that we are making with this programmed progression. This progressive approach, as I had explained to you very briefly before, is that the service begins with a right for two priority sectors of the population: the children's and young people's population between seven and seven years old, also with a programmed progression, and the vulnerable population. We are talking about units of coexistence that enter as much or less than the guaranteed income of citizenship, so that we can take some objective element legislated for this very Parliament, about who is vulnerable economically and socially. But also those people who, because they are affected by rare diseases, disabilities or pregnancy and nursing seas have special needs in matters of oral health. Once this first phase of progress has been completed, we plant that there has been a second phase where it is programmed, a realistic timetable is planned to complete with that initial objective and with the background of this law: to end by serving the entire population from the public service. I won't go into the detail of which are the inclusive services for each of these population sectors. They hold it to the articulate of the law, but very briefly it is a matter of infusing everything that the portfolio of basic services of the state allows us to include. We fight, if any, with the State because there are more things locked in, but we don't go down on everything that could be included in a Catalan law. I'm done. With this law proposal from Catalonia in Comú We can start the way because all Catalans have guaranteed a public dentist service. A proposal that is not utopia, it is a mandate of our laws, it is possible, it is consumable and it is viable, but above all it is necessary to guarantee an oral salvation of the people and, therefore, the salvation of the people. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.289.0	Thank you, Mrs. Ribas. Then, as no totality papers have been presented, parliamentary groups will intervene to express their position. It has the first word, for a maximum of two minutes, the deputy Martin Eusebio Barra, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.290.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, advisors, counselors, without a doubt, good oral health is fundamental to the general health of people. The data on prevalence of oral pathology, both at state level and in Catalonia, are very worrying, she has already commented in part on Mrs Ribas and I will not repeat it, but it is also that they present a clear bias according to the economic capacity. As many of the oral health services are not covered by the public system, people, low-income families use little private services and generally have worse oral health, and, in addition – in addition – they may be more susceptible to scams and misleading propaganda, as was the unfortunate and painful case of iDental. Oral health is something we have already talked about in this Parliament and discussed in this chamber on several occasions on the proposal of Citizens. The last parliamentary term, the second motion that we brought to this plenary session, barely with four months of government, was about oral health. The subsequent motion was approved here, but there it remained. A good parliamentary mandate, but of those to which the Government does not give the least consideration. In this legislature we have recidivized. We are presenting to the Committee on Health a motion for a resolution on this same problem which was adopted in January two months ago. In so far as I wish to take note, Counsellor, Resolution 252/XII, of the children's dental services of public health; another parliamentary mandate which I sincerely do not believe this Government is doing anything different from the previous one, that is, no case. And they dare to proclaim to drum and platter that health and people are a priority of this government. Consellera, this morning in response to my colleague Jorge Soler, you presumed to rule, and you presumed to" managed, managed and managed. He said that the priorities of his department – and I read textually – are: "Primary attention, the professionals and the gender perspective, and that's not why we leave all the other debates and all the other tasks in no way behind. I do not know in what box these parliamentary mandates of social and health content are expected to be fulfilled. And what's worse, I don't know if you know the existence of that drawer or if you've told us a troll. I don't know what's worse. In any case, and although it weighs them, the drawer has been opened, and we speak again of oral health on this occasion with the proposed law presented to us by the group of Catalonia En Comú Puem. And as the explanatory statement says, and as Congresswoman Ribas has explained, in this area we are very, very late in other autonomous communities, which have taken us years, not decades of advantage. The first public-funded child dental service began in the Basque Country in 1990. Navarra, 1991. Later they implemented these benefits other autonomy of the common system: Andalusia, 2002; Murcia, 2003; Aragón, Baleares and Extremadura, 2005; Canarias, 2009; Madrid, very recently. Gentlemen of the Government, proceduralists, none of these autonomous communities that I have mentioned are a republic, they are all subject to the common tax system, and in some cases – in some cases – their financial capacity is lower than that of the Government of the Generalitat. Of course, they do not have a third additional provision to resort to constantly crying to, "because, of course, if they do not, we cannot also comply. Gentlemen of the Government, the key lies in the will of the respective autonomous governments to prioritise social and health services, or to prioritise, as in other cases, the creation of what you euphemistically call "state structures, which in paladin roman means "unusable chiringuits, and I refer to the tests. I refer to the tests – to the tests I refer to – about the futility of those chiringuitist structures that stand without any use, even though they should have been operational, this, sorry, this... When was it? When was it? Were there sixteen, eighteen months? When was it? From 2015, 2016? I don't know, a long time ago, huh? A long time ago. The Education Advisor, who cannot accompany us at this time, said this morning that with Citizens the future of Catalonia was black, he took out a postcard. I won't pull out any signs, don't worry. But it's just that besides in this case I couldn't. The future with you has no color, it is colourless, insipid and odorless. It's long since expired, it's too old, man. Do you know what...? Because then, I insist, I refer to the evidence, to the evidence provided in court. There it turns out that everything was symbolic, yes, yes, as they are doing to me, so [[The timer picks the keys with the name index]] , some members of the bank here, on this side, everything there was symbolic. Do you know what is not symbolic? Do you know what is not symbolic? The oral health needs of the population, especially of the social classes with less economic resources. Nor is the mortar of money spent on these chiringuitist structures symbolic, over-expenditure and unwarranted, as we are recently familiar with the Court of Auditors' reports. Here we are waiting for the governments to put their batteries in order to comply with the resolutions already adopted in this Parliament, and if not, well, we now have again the proposal for a law presented to us by Catalonia In Comú Pomera, which proposes, as I have already said, public dental care for children between the ages of seven and sixteen, progressive coverage, and yes, well, perhaps in the future, expansion to the total population. Of course we agree that this proposal for a law is being dealt with, because, as our previous proposals show, it is an issue that we certainly have to address, although that, Mrs Ribas, this proposal suffers from defects that will have time, there will be time in the paper, but I wanted to comment on some that you have not mentioned, although you have already wanted to anticipate some of the possible criticisms. In this proposal you have copied many, many, of the law passed in the Community of Madrid, by the way, the law presented by the PSOE and which was published in the BOE exactly a week ago. Well, he's copying, huh? It's not that it's a criticism, it's fine. It's not even... even if it's copied from Madrid, it's nothing like that. But it is that in that Madrid law We can abstain, and abstained from something you have commented on. They argued that there the service would be provided in a combined way between dentists of the public system and in concert with private centers, and, of course, we already know, to you..., this public-private collaboration is not something that falls within your criteria. But, of course, here they propose the same thing. Yes, primary care, you said it very well. Of course, in the primary care centres of the ICS and « in the rest of primary care centres financed by the Servivei Català de la Salut, there are fewer centres that are not of public ownership. I mean, that mixed public-private model, well, here it is. Good. Of course, and this of putting everything into the primary care system has forced them to include an article 10 on the provision of staff places: on stomatologists, dentists, professions for which they propose that year by year – as cohorts are being incorporated, I understand – an estimate is made of how many are needed and thus make the corresponding public call for the provision of places. How many will it take? Because you have spoken of economic forecasting, but have you made predictions of whether there will be dentists? Do you know how long it takes from a public call for employment until professionals get to work? Is it possible? Finally, I cannot fail to recall that recent proposal – you have named it – which was approved at the Barcelona City Council Plenary a few days ago, which the press calls "the dentist Colau", which in the end represents four more dentists and a promise of 36,000 visits, which will hardly be able to cover among the four, and which, welcome are, but represent only a small percentage of the real need. I mean, populist, pre-election proposal, to please a related audience, but with little chance of having good results. Anyway, we're here on another case. Here, where it is necessary to do so, as you have rightly said, Mrs Ribas, where we have been citizens for a few years now, with our motion, and here in this Parliament we will have the opportunity to deal with this proposal for a law and to amend it in the presentation phase. And that's right, we'll have to work hard. We will have to work hard to amend it and in the end this bill will have a face, eyes and dentists. But, as well as I believe that you are all already knowledgeable and conscious, hard work is something that does not scare Citizens. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.291.0	Thank you, Mr. Barra. Next is the return of MP Assumpta Escarp, PSC Parliamentary Group and Forward Units.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.292.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... "The oral health is an integral and essential part of the health that directly affects the quality of life both for its relationship with physiological functions of great importance as for its psychosocial impact. So we begin the motivating statement of the law proposed by the Catalonian Parliamentary Group today.We can present it to you, and it's a start for everyone, we all agree. It is from those statements that sometimes fem, as we say: "We put the person at the center of the system. Well, we all agree. But in this case we would also agree that we have always tried to put the person at the center of the system, but people without mouth, because oral health has always been the great oblivion of the health system. Mrs Ribas said, quite rightly, that oral health is a right; that in addition to the main laws regulating public health services, in defining the system as integral, they already incorporate it, because if a system is integral, it cannot pretend that there is a part that we do not treat it. The same LOSC speaks that oral health must be included in the free services of the National Health Service with all the necessary activities and procedures to guarantee it. In spite of all this, what is obvious is that today in the service portfolio of the health care system, the majority of dental procedures are excluded or not covered. And, besides, it causes damage to salvation, and we know it. It loses prevention, which is one of the key elements. And all this with a clear economic bias, which also referred to the ones that preceded me, since a good part of the population renounces it or the treatment is indispensible to it. Sometimes we can joke and say, "No, let's not go to the dentist because he does us for, too; but what's quite certain is that the clear side is the economic side. 12_% of the population does not access the dentist due to economic problems, but it is that, in addition, if we talk about non-professional sectors rises to 22_%, and if we talk about ups and downs, we are in 27_%. And 52_% of social class people, we would say, have visited the dentist later, but they have only made 28_% of the most disadvantaged, and these clearly for reasons of urgency, not so much for preventive themes or revisions. Therefore, the economic argument is one of the factors not to go to the dentist. And if we're talking about the children's population, which is a priority sector or as a first step this law proposal, there's a variation in the prevalence of active groups from 8.9 to 18_%, depending on the economic level. I mean, you have points of difference in prevalence. The proposal of the law, I believe, was also made by the Member before, which is similar to the system that the Basque Country has since the 1990s, since the 1990s, and to the law that, on a socialist proposal, was approved by the Parliament of the Community of Madrid in December 2018, and that they also have other autonomous communities, wants to be the initiator of a path towards an active, comprehensive and universal policy of prevention, promotion and oral care, of which we congratulate and fully share. It begins by prioritizing infants and adolescents, creating the Children's Dental Care Program, and the most vulnerable groups. For us, defending the right to health and social rights as priorities, it is clear that we need to move forward and continue to achieve equal access to oral health, such as a basic, free and public service, which we have seen today is clearly unequal. This means that we mean transitory, and so it defines, access to people in a vulnerable situation, because a sector must not be a priority, but all, just as we mean transitory, that this one serves an assembly, because the expansion of you should lead the Generality, said the deputy, for that reason we are here today and that is why we also congratulate it. Just as we applaud and welcome the fact that one of one hundred and two proposals by President Sánchez is the expansion of the service portfolio, including the progressive incorporation of attention to oral health. We share a good part of what is proposed in respect of the PADI programme and its contents, but they remain out of service perhaps non-essential elements, right? , important as well as elements of inequality. I think that the other day he was commenting on some of the companies that were shut out of orthodontic treatments, and so we recovered a sentence from German Social Democracy saying that "the smile didn't make a difference, but, well, somewhere we have to carve, but it's certain that things... I gave it to a company from his group, didn't I? The conversation was with him. But, it is true, we will have a process that will allow us to pull forward and that, somehow, through the joint discussions and work, so we can expand. Before Congressman Eusebio Martín Barra said that the issue of concertation, which is not recognized in the law, is true that the law recently passed in the Madrid Community makes it more possible to apply it and makes it more feasible to have more resources. And, therefore, I will tell you very clearly: I am not in a position at this time, but I also think it is worth it that we can plant it, right? , basically because the application has to be done incrementally by age and, therefore, in some way, as more capable, as more possible, better than better. There are also some differences, type if there is a responsible odontologist or is the primary care service... Aspects that seem important to me: the clinical history and their gap of oral health, which is between you; collect as well as we do as to whether someone is going on or going on to private treatment, right? , which is part of the clinical history, especially of infants, or the incorporation of oral health data into all health reports of the Catalan population. Maybe we should specify better the information systems, right? : Maybe talking about the polls or some of the reasons, but obviously we need to have this information. And lastly the subject of private clinics and oral health centers, especially what we have known later, right? And what's been going on for years: fraud, the appearance of deceitful franchises that affect vulnerability and cases like iDental, that can't be repeated again, and I think that's what we all agree on. The proposal doesn't seem enough, at least with this first reading, does it? , to create a database of all existing centres or to be monitored or monitored by the Directorate-General. I think that, given the level of fraud and lack of protection in which many people have been affected, it might be better, right? , more forceful, and, in coordination with the municipalities, look at compliment systems, inspection systems and sanction systems, because we really have something to deal with, and maybe we're dealing with something state legislation, but it's worth it. As with advertising: if we get into the old age, it's obvious that advertising and advertising are a lot of money, and that's why advertising and advertising in this private environment are very aggressive; we've seen, they use footballers – I don't think I'm going to wander these franchises, honestly here – and in any case, we're going to have to work a little bit more on this topic. Therefore, we may have to promote a law, and in this case I don't know whether it is as autonomous as the state, because it regulates health advertising; this is a subject that has also come out sometimes. I'm done. I ended up thanking the initiative; I think it's a good initiative, that we can work on and that we'll try to improve among all the reviews. Let's hope that we can start processing quickly, that it generates an active policy of prevention, promotion and attention to the oral health of the population and, above all, that we reduce the burden of dental illness of infants and young people with this program and, therefore, let them grow up more safely, which is what they deserve, at the time that there is one more element of struggle against inequalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.293.0	Thank you, Mrs. Escarp. Next is the return of the deputy Vidal Aragonese, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.294.0	In the first place, we wanted to thank the proposed group, Catalonia in Comú Podemos, for this proposal of law; so good it is possible to transform into law, because it would suppose a great adventure in the oral health of our country. We understand that this originates in two distinct realities: the first, the historical deficiency of public health in terms of oral health or the portfolio of oral health services, and the second, the col·lapse or health emergency that have caused certain undertakings – and we want to say so – that, of course, they have dedicated themselves to oral services, and we want to characterize it, in addition, in this way. Starting with this second question, we believe that, certainly, the proposed law includes, in Article 5(3), the monitoring and follow-up of oro-dental centres authorized in the territory, and that Article 13 also speaks of mechanisms of taxation, but we should see in all the processing as we have more guarantees for users and users, more protectionism, in the end and in the end. And I'm very clear: we're not talking about and dentists all of our lives, we're not talking about this; we're talking about certain businesses that have appeared in recent years, that are more articulated on the basis of a very aggressive publicity and that have more mechanisms of action that, many times, end up with a closure of business activity and don't give response or only to oral services in progress. With regard to this question, we also think that we could, in an additional provision, regulate a very specific question, which is the express prohibition of intervention of certain products financed in the payment of these services. Why? Because we would avoid in this way that there are realities as we know of the later stage, that there is who his oral service pays through a financing product, the company that has to donate the oral service and remains at odds with the oral treatment and the need to continue paying that financing product. Certainly, this can end in a plethora where you can win back some of the amounts, but obviously it's an absolute judicial crossroads where you don't have oral service, for one band, and for another band, you have to keep paying. Also, in relation to this issue, we should consider an objective recognition of the health emergency declaration. We find ourselves in a reality that would require a decree after the government, but we could aim at which ones it is already recognized that there is a health emergency when there is a lack of service for those who had started them, and therefore also to advance in a reality that has prevented us from dramas such as that seen by many Catalans and Catalans, due to two concrete actions. On the second element that we find as the origin of the proposal, the deficiency of oral health, we also want to make it clear that it will not guarantee the elimination of this historical deficiency in the attic, because in the attic, you already recognize it and give it clearly to the norm, which will be for the population between the seven and seven years or population in economically most vulnerable situation. But it's already good, this beginning, it's a very good beginning. And above all, because they already say it in the preamble and you talk about the existence of a class biax, we say in a very strong way: "There is no such thing as an absolute class expression, and we would guarantee for the first time that a sector of working-class children who today cannot go to the private dentist because they can't afford this service. For what he does to the sons and daughters of the petty bourgeoisie and the bourgeoisie, they will certainly continue to go there, even to the same dentists or private dentists, even though they have all the public service. We also want to raise some doubts, and doubts about the model and very technical doubts. The first of these: we have gone to see the annex according to the decree of 2006 and, in relation to the definition that it does, we are not entirely clear that in future services a question is incorporated as essential as the hygiene that the dentists or dentists carry out to us or the treatment of genes; and this we see from a focus, moreover, that it has an action that will prevent that there are further treatments on the dental fish. And, therefore, we should study in depth. They're talking about self-fluorination. We also want to suggest that there is a reality that you incorporate us into the norm: the inclusion of primary care centers funded for the Catalan Health Service. And, obviously, this is what we can give the name we want, but it's about centers that aren't always run in a public way, but in a private way, and, obviously, it's the model that the CUP doesn't defend. And the last question, which refers to the provision of work places: we understand that we need to develop it more. It is said in a very clear way that it will guarantee to all the territories stomatòlegs, odontòlegs and support workers, but we just have to define of which model we are talking about: of which work model, of which service model of the and the professional, of the and the workers. And the last, yes, beyond the differences that we have expressed to you on some questions, we wanted to thank you again for the law proposal you are presenting today.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.295.0	Thank you, Mr. Aragonese. Next is the return of Deputy Santi Rodríguez, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.296.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counsel, deputies and deputies, have already said various things that I also wanted to express today, in the position in relation to this proposal of the law. The first: oral health is certainly – surely – the great oblivion of the public health system, even though there have been certain services, some, not all, partially, that are in the catholic service of the national health system. And, therefore, from here, there are two consequences: a first, as is done these services established in the catalogue by the public administrations, on the part of the public health service, and on the other hand, they appear – and, obviously, it is historical – private enterprises that offer those services for when they are not covered in the public health system. And the proposition of the law that is presented here today addresses two things, with more or less emphasis, with more coincidences or with fewer coincidences, but addresses them, and therefore from this point of view, we understand that. We understand this because they are not doing well enough for all those services that should be provided and that are in the service category. And, therefore, one of the first objectives..., the first objective is that, effectively, the Catalan public health system offers all of these services, especially, as I said, so in vulnerable people or infants, etc., right? And, therefore, from this point of view, positive. Does it have to be strictly public, as the bill says? I let you doubt it. I won't tell you they have to be concertats, I won't tell you they have to be private, under the umbrella of the public system. What I'm going to say is, let's talk to him, let's see what's more effective and what's more efficient to donate, for one thing, but also for the same Administration, for another, without any bias; let's value him, and take the measures that are more effective. Some other groups have already positioned themselves in relation to this, and I therefore believe that this is a debate that is worth keeping, to sort out the formula that is most effective, at the time of making decisions in relation to this law. The first question. The second question. Long history, private clinics, dentists or the dentist of all life have appeared, the dental consultant of all life, and in the last few years, a set of franchises have appeared. And I also want to make it clear that we can't judge them by their legal form; that is, we don't want to judge all the franchises that offer exactly the same dental service. But it is true that there has certainly been some use of these difficulties that certain sectors of the population have to access the dental service, to sell other products that are not strictly sanitary, that are financed. And, therefore, I believe that, man, it is worth seeing who are the possibilities we have, so as to try that the services of odontology strictly complement what you are serving of odontology and do not interfere with other mechanisms that can then cause severe harm to people who really need it the most. And it is that, besides, one of these companies is repeatedly advertised as social, and what caused this was, therefore, precisely that the most vulnerable people accessing these services and then having a harm, as it has proved, for example, in the case of i Dental, concretely. There is already regulation; I don't think it's enough to see what we've been through, and so we think it's good that it's incorporated into this law, that we're debating it in ponence. I do not believe that we should ban access to financial products, but that we should establish the necessary guarantees for these products to remain ancillary and collateral to dental services, nor do we believe that advertising should be prohibited. Regularly? Yes, it is – it is already –; health advertising, health products and health services, is already regulated. Sure – sure – not enough form and not enough effective form. Therefore, we have opportunity in the debate of this law, we will have opportunity in the debate of this law, to be able to focus even more on this aspect. I'm done, Mrs. Ribas. So, yes – so, yes. Competence in sanitation, competence in salvation is of the Government of the Generality. It is not the case that the joints have initiations in order to be able to sell, surely, in view of some elections, at the time of offering certain services that they do not correspond to offer, because it more establishes another deficiency, which is that of territorial equity, because in function of five joints they can offer it..., and most of the other joints cannot offer it. So, so, yes; through the gatherings, no. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.297.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of MP Noemi Llauradó, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.298.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, good evening, ja. Certainly, the objective of the Health Department is and must be to give an answer to the health challenges that society poses. And it's also true that the best policies in salvation are prevention. I said before our Republican Left Guard, Congresswoman Espigares, that a euro in prevention involves more than four euros, then in cure. So... It is also true that we must continue to work towards the consolidation of our health system, a universal health system, equity and more public, that focuses on people and wants or aims to improve the health and quality of life of people. For what he already does to the proposition of law that causes us to get to the proposing group, also any legislation in the matter of salvation must have as central the prevention. This is why the Generality already has these coordinated programs between the Department of Education and the Department of Health, which focus very much on the field of childhood. For example, we know the program « Strong and healthy teeth. And oral health, at this point, puts a lot of emphasis on this area of life, which is the area of childhood, where these healthy life habits are actually forged, and also hygiene habits and oral health habits. It is an investment that actually has very important benefits after the length of life. According to Catalonia's last health report, 50 percent of infants aged between five and fourteen years are brushing their teeth two times a day, and we don't observe different masses for what they do at social level or territorial diversity. Therefore, all this prevention policy and all this collaboration between the teaching department and the Health Department is certainly giving its results as well. This programme « Strong and healthy teeth is an initiative of the Agency for Public Health of Catalonia, which seeks to encourage the brushing of teeth to avoid caries, which, as any Member who has preceded me makes reference, therefore, still has a high percentage of the population of children. It is also true that the child population has guaranteed oral care according to the portfolio of common services established for the Royal Decree of the Ministry of Health of the year 2006. And, at the Catalan level, in the area of Enapisc, a technical commission has also come to an end, which I think is very important and which is good for us to know here, in his parliamentary office, to analyze who and what dental services should be like in primary care. Therefore, our parliamentary group seems to us very audacious, very correct, the experience of this proposal of law, because it puts special emphasis on the child population and also on the most vulnerable people, because precisely it is already on the line in which the Generality is working. We also see the agreements that existed between 2008 and 2010 between the Ministry of Health and the Government of Catalonia in order to extend the assistance in oral health free of charge to all the children's population, and also the agreement to pay special attention to children and adolescents, in the field of oral health, who have some type of disability. In fact, there is already a program, which is the Program for the prevention of oral diseases for people with disabilities, and it would be serious, therefore, to put more emphasis on the child and adolescent population. We also agree, and we welcome, that it puts emphasis on this progressive character, on the progressive implementation of the law, and that we apply a realistic calendar, as Congresswoman Ribas refers to it. For us this is essential if we also take into account what presuppositional availability the Generality has today. That's why we see well, as I said, this progression that you're planting. We have certain doubts– and that you, therefore, already advanced that it might be that some group raised these doubts – it is precisely in the approach to cost and the presuppositional impact. We believe that we need a more accurate analysis – a more accurate analysis that we can continue to do in this Parliament, during the debate, etc. – that takes into account the real needs of the contract, which takes into account, therefore, the need for equipment, the need for material, because, if we only take into account the assistance act, we have predicted that the numbers are a quantity close to EUR 15_million. And if we have to add all the equipment and material needs here, this quantity should be multiplied by two and even three. We can therefore conjure ourselves here today, in its plenary, therefore, to be rigorous – to be rigorous – to carry out a detailed analysis, not to want to make a policy of great headlines, and to analyse what this will entail for the system and its sustainability. We make a plan, we map the needs, we make an active escort from all the clinical criteria as well. And this approach to cost would also be good for doing so, so, in a participatory way, with experts both in the economic and planning fields, as well as in the clinical field, and also with the participation of scientific societies. I think that would be very positive. For what he does to professionals, we currently have 5,500 odontóloges and odontóloges and stomatóloges who practice in Catalonia. Currently, the odontology teams at the Catalan CAP offer exodontics, small oral surgery, the prevention program for diabetics, the program for pregnant women and oral health at school. In the Forum of Professional Dialogue, it has already been said in the previous intervention, there are also reviewing the objectives of equipping all professionals and also what roles these professionals should have; therefore, it will also be necessary to do the same with the professionals odontólegs and stomatólegs. I will not tell you, Mrs Ribas, that this proposal is against dentists. You thought there would be some group that would say it. No, I don't see it – I don't see it –, honestly. But I do believe that it must be accompanied by a very intensive debate where there must be an appearance of all the experts in this matter, because what we have to have is a text that ultimately takes away all populism and therefore lacks responsibility. And before we get into very concrete issues of the joint, I would also like to reflect, and it is whether the fact of regulating this matter for the law will not slash a little too much on us, it will not fossilize all this matter, or it will make it difficult for us to update it according to clinical, populational, etc. aspects. I think maybe there should be a more dynamic mechanism. In fact, whenever the department wanted to increase its portfolio of services, it did so through the decree. But, well, in any case we focus on these concrete questions. For what he's saying... that's a lot of reference to the ICS, the ICS, that's right, it's the majority provider, but it's a more provider, and so the fact of providing more resources only the ICS I think we could plan to see if we also have more resources for all the other providers that are also funded by the CatSalut. On the subject of creating this community dental health office, of course, we see that this implies a change in the structure of the CatSalut, which will also entail more costs, because it will have to be staffed more, and, moreover, if it is a higher rank than a division head, it will also require a Public Service report, etc. Moreover, whenever CatSalut has tried to face specific challenges, specific objectives, it has done so through programs and not creating offices for each topic. Therefore, it is also a question to raise. For information about the consignors that have been opened to the complaint or action centres, we also monitor all the impact of the Data Protection Act, which sets a series of requests; let's be on the account, old-fashioned. For what it does to the database of authoritative oral clinic data, transparency is good, this greater control, but in fact, we already have an official register of centers and services. Let's see if this could fit in, too, and it wouldn't be good to create anything again. For what it does to the annual estimation of the name of professionals and the public summons to cover the necessary places, say that the summons of places is not from the Cat Salut only that it does every providing entity; therefore, this we will also have to take into account. And because of the fact that this dental office has to vet for patients' rights, monitor safety, quality, etc., this is what we think corresponds to the General Evaluation and Inspection Directorate of Health and Pharmaceuticals, because it does have health authority and, therefore, can be a sanctioning body. And, lastly, in relation to the fourth chapter, which is about this dental adviser, if it is to exist, which I think should be raised, therefore, with these experts who think they should be involved, we see it as a consulting, deliberative body and with the function of formulating recommendations, such as guiding these policies, and that, moreover, it should be formed not only by professionals in the field of oral health but also by professional colleges and scientific societies, and, if it can be, also by representatives of the citizenship that form part of the Consulting Council of Patients of Catalonia. In any case, let's round up and start processing to see if you can see the light with the greatest possible consensus. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.299.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, it is the turn of Congressman Lluís Guinó, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.300.0	Thank you, Vice President. Councillor, Members, Members, let me first of all thank the initiative of the Group of Catalonia in Comú to present this proposal of law, mainly for two questions. One, certainly to fall strictly politically, and as a consequence of the proposal that had made at a certain time or made the Barcelona Assembly. Another thing is to discuss whether this competence really has to be attributable to the assemblies or whether it corresponds to the development of this competence is the Government of the Government of Catalonia. We are in favour of the fact that, to the extent possible and above all to the extent of economic opportunities, it is the Government of the Generality that increases the portfolio of services precisely to incorporate the questions they have to see with oral salvation. That was a first question. And the other one certainly also has a lot of ties and pulls out of the scams – because this is certainly the most appropriate word, even from a criminal point of view – that they have assumed the negative experiences of these franchises that somehow practically deceive citizens respect the dental service and that they do precisely..., or the precise recipients of these franchises were people from a more vulnerable social point of view. And, therefore, from this perspective is from the point of view of which the Government must work and the parliamentary groups must work to go, as far as possible, in a hurry, because this is not a complicated law. In fact, we have seen that there is quite a widespread consensus of its need and more of an important force coincidence for what makes the concepts more important or more transcendent and strategic of this law. And, therefore, we would have a law easily in force within a short period of time. It must also be said that it is possible that in a few points we have not just agreed. The Member of the Republic Group referred to it. There are questions that they have to see with presuppositionary increments or that they have a presuppositionary impact that will logically be fronted or assumed from us, if that is the case, and in any case from extended assumptions. That's what we'd say. The presupposition prorogus precisely involves the fact that you cannot make modifications that have this transcendence that you plant in your law proposal. Therefore, I also invite you to when you make layouts of these vague features certainly accompanied by economic planning so that it is concrete what is the presuppositional impact of these new services. It is important precisely – and there has been a reference on its part and on the part of all parliamentary groups – that there is a social issue to resolve at the end of this whole problem. All the problems that arise in the Parliament of Catalonia are precisely the result of social concerns, and it seems to me that this is one of the questions that all parliamentary groups, beyond ideological positions, have made clear. The problem of the franchises that the servants falsified, that even more they cheated on people..., later on, I insist, there is a social problem that we have to solve among absolutely everyone, and the government has a special responsibility in all this. He said, however, that in public health policies there is a fundamental question, that it is what we have repeated on many occasions and that, moreover, the councillor does it whenever she can, not only in her parliament but in meetings that are fan and develop outside the Parliament, which is that in salvation, the reaction factor as the preventive factor is so important. And the preventive factor in oral health is especially transcendent if we understand this prevention linked or much in direct relation to what is the transversality between departments. Reference has been made before: there are different public health policies that do not only depend on the Health Department, but also the participation and activation of other departments, such as, for example, the Education Department, as previously referenced. But these policies, which are clearly social, and which are cross-cutting, deserve inter-departmental policies, and therefore also from this perspective we ask that there be a wider view in this sense. Probably, it's like..., or it creates some conflict, or we don't just hear about whether to create a new structure in the Health Department, specific to this problem, especially for what has already been mentioned, because of the economic impact that this supposes, and more so for the modification of the own structure of the Catalan Health Service, which also entails..., and which obviously generates, apart from a fairly long process, modifications of structure that are difficult. For another band, and there has been a reference before, it is important that the odontólegs, these 5,500 odontólegs, the people who deal continuously with people who have problems falling into the mouth, also participate in all these debates, both in the pontice, that they must compare, and even in this body that they want to create, that it is this council advisor, that, from our perspective and from a parliamentary group that gives support to the government, we see it with good eyes, but whenever there is the incorporation of odontólegs and specific actors of this matter, but more also, for another band, the users, so that they can also give their opinion, so that in all cases, there is a sense of humour, so that it can be used in other ways. It is true that it is easy to make, in the field of salvation, catastrophic speeches and speeches that are especially negative. I am grateful for the interventions that have been made by the parliamentary groups, but there is a whole trajectory behind the Catalonian health system that must bring us to a certain positive value, but in change we also need to be demanding that this health system be improved in all those areas where there really is a clear potential for improvement, and in this particular area – and that is why I welcome the presentation or celebration of the presentation of the bill – in the oral area. And for what it does, above all – and that's why I referred earlier to the social sphere and to the social affection that has all this problem – to the fact that the most vulnerable classes or social spheres, which have more difficulties, even economic ones, to access it, have the opportunity to have this service for free. And it has also been said that implementation is progressive; that it is progressive, it is important, but it is also particularly progressive for all these people or social extracts, really, that today, in our society, they have more difficulties and have more problems, precisely, to enjoy these services. In short, in view of all the interventions, I would like to thank him for his presentation of the law's proposal, and in some very concrete aspect, it has already been referred to, from a technical point of view of everything that is the Catalan Health Service as well as our provider, etc., it is better, but I assure you that, as far as possible, for what he does to Junts for Catalonia, we are willing to work there on the ground, to work there quickly so that this law is fully in force in the shortest possible period. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.301.0	Thank you, Mr. Guinó. The debate is over, and since there are no totalities, this initiative can continue its processing. [[Question to the Government about urbanisations and slums with urban deficiencies]] [[300-00105/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government on urbanisations and barrels with urban deficiencies, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose the inquiry, has the word the deputy Jordi Terrades, for a time of two minutes. [[Pause.]] Do we know if the councilman is in Parliament? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Anyway... we suspend the session for a couple of minutes, waiting to see if the counselor sees. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Well, let's resume the session; they haven't been quite two minutes. If you want to take the word, Congressman Terrades. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.302.0	Good afternoon, Counselor. Look, today, I have a theme that is a problem, that we have here, that affects thousands of people, that comes out and enters the agenda, but that is a real problem for the people that suffer; it is a problem, a curse of management for many mayors and for many mayors, and for many venereal entities; it is a recidivist problem and it is an unresolved problem. You know that in the sixties and seventies of the previous century a large number of urbanisations were promoted from Catalonia in rustic only, initially destined for the second residence. So, at the political conditions of that time, a very important part of the urbanisations were commercialized without the proper process of parceling, urban planning, providing services, sanitation..., other shortcomings, right? Many of these settlements, it is true, have improved, thanks to the efforts of the people who live there, and also to the contribution of the joints. Thanks to this, many of them have been legalizing. Now, there are many cases with very important shortcomings and unfinished urbanization processes. In the later years the tendency has increased to convert those settlements that were of second residence..., to turn them into first residence. And this has made more evident the shortcomings of many of these territorial and residential settlements. In 2009, this Parliament passed a law, Law 3/2009, regulating and improving urban areas with urban deficiencies. Certainly, Democratic Convergence didn't support it at that time, did it? The main purpose of that law, counselor, you know, was to promote the finalization of urbanisation works and the establishment of urban services. We are aware of the extreme... – we were then, we are now – the extreme complexity of the situations that exist. The economic crisis, which affected many things in this country, also interrupted the possible effects of that law. We note, however, that in many cases the slowdown and paralysis of urban development in many of the sectors that were in the lifespan of solution, are, therefore, coming from this situation that has affected, right? , the conjunction of the Catalan economy. And in many cases, the assemblies – many mayors, governors and governors have addressed us – find that for the social and economic characteristics of the owners of these urban sectors, the people affected do not or do not have the economic capacity to cope with urban spending. Because, despite the passing of the law, in these years, the lines of aid and subsidies provided for by the law have not been called. There has been, from our point of view, a rigidity – after some example – too much of the territorial administration of the Generalitat at the time of interpreting the urban rule, which the masses sometimes make impossible to find out the reasons for the territorial conflict that we have. Affected joints do not have an economic capacity to deal with the problem; many times we are talking about small-scale joints, right? , and, therefore, with a..., they don't have the capacity, nor the economic, to deal with this problem. And, therefore, the problems accumulate: problems of salvation, of security, of coexistence... Before I spoke to him about the issues of sanitation, we see how there are dry dusts that contaminate the streets; we lack light; suspensions of administrative claims because these urbanizations are not legalized, and other side effects, which make it impossible to manage these nuclei, right? I used to tell him that the case is very different. When you talk to a mayor or mayor... and even among the same municipalities, sometimes the situation is not the same. We could talk about the problems we have in the Garraf, Penedès, the Jungle, the Maresme, I don't know..., Dosrius, Tordera, Argentona, Palafolls, Olivella... I was talking this week to the Mayor of Olivella, and he explained to me that I was dealing with the problems of trying to legalize some of these cities, I would have to do a hundred miles of harpsichord, huh? We see that we have a very complex situation, don't we? Therefore, we believe that we can only normalize these urbanisations if the current legislation recognizes these urbanisations as anomalies of some time past where urbanism did not have proper control of the Administration, and therefore, here, too often the local officials do not have legal means to find the solutions that the people see and the people see the complaints. We believe that it is necessary, counsel, to seek legal and technical solutions from a realistic and practical point of view. The Greuges Synod was already pointing that out in a report that respected this question. We believe that we need to make changes, we need to make changes in the applicable legislation, because they collect the parameters of urbanization and disposals..., to solve these anomalies of the past, which allow and make viable the payment of allowances by the owners, and therefore make possible the urbanization of this nucleus. The law of territories that has been announced so many times, the new law of territories that has been announced so many times in this Parliament – Councillor Rull already did, and you, too, committed yourself in his appearance, when he explained his plan of government – could be a good fit to finish solving, together with the law of urbanization, this issue. But we see that this law, new law of territories, that could be an opportunity, didn't just see the light, huh? And neither do we have any clear indication of when the government wants to start dealing with its approval. We also know whether with the Government's criteria, and from this law, it is possible to make these changes to the parameters that we apply to the new urbanization to try to give out in this topic. And perhaps, counselor, what we're going to ask you is that if the law of territories, if it's to be expected a lot, it would be good to start thinking about an ad hoc modification, thinking about these urbanizations. That already... I insist, there is no one that is similar to another; they all have difficulties. Before he talked about Olivella, I'll be back. Because it seemed that, sometimes, one of the agencies of the Generality – that many mayors and mayors say: "No, it's a tough administration, isn't it? –, the Catalan Agency of Water, when in this municipality they had reached an agreement to seek solutions for each of the plots and the plots to clean the water through individual purification, which in other countries already works..., now that it poses problems is the agency of the Generality. O... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. He was talking to a glass governor yesterday, who explained to me that his problem is different, but there are... there's an urbanisation alone that also has forty-four or forty-six kilometres of streets, and there are problems of lightning, asphalt... Well, what I'm asking you, counselor, is that without violating the laws of urbanism and the only thing that we have endowed ourselves with, surely, we should be able to find, all folds, practical solutions, technical solutions that allow us to deal with a solution for this territorial conflict, without oblivion, counsel, the need to open calls for the planned aid to the Law of Urbanization with urban deficiencies, from which you have passed in these years of government..., went to say olympically, but went without changing, right? ; no, they have not opened aid to try to solve the problem of financing that they have the joints and above all that they have the owners, that it is not that they do not want to pay, but that they need a reunion on behalf of the local administration but also of the Government of the Generality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.303.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Counselor Damià Calvet has now the word for the answer to the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.304.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, councillor, Mr Terrades, I would like to thank you for your intervention. It is an inquiry that I think is appropriate, because this is a problem, indeed, a problem that we have been dealing with for many years in our country, and that we are dealing with..., and that we know well what we have been urban managers already at the municipal level or in the same government of the Generality. But I would, in any case, like to put a little more context, if I may, and explain what situation we find ourselves in. I have to say that from the very first moment we knew that he was asking us about urbanisations and the Barrel Law, we understood that his arguments would turn, in the end, around Law 3/2009, which was done at the time of the tripartite, which meant, and the calls that were made, and the effectiveness of this law, and certainly it is also counterpossible, and he did so at the end of his inquiry, with which he supposedly did not make this government, either because he did not make calls or because of excessive rigid interpretation of the mechanisms, said himself, of urban management – you said so yourself. And I, anyway, will defend me, huh? Because I think that's what I have to do, put context and also explain what we're doing with the Government of the Generality. We believe – and in any case I believe that we can agree on this – that we have a well-planned territory; it is well-planned because it is, in the first instance, covered for territorial planning: all municipalities have urban planning. But this does not prevent you – you too were entering your inquiry – from having innate, urbanistic insecurities that water for a long time and burst, burst into residential tissues, with problems of varying magnitude. And the low-density urban weaves, which are big consumers of soil, have actually had a massive role to play in the past decades, huh? We can talk about the pre-democratic periods, but also about the beginnings of what the recovered government was, because the innates, therefore, somehow, brought us there. In urbanization processes, in urban development processes we had this reality. And this is a model – and here we agree – that we have given ourselves a lot of problems and that we continue to give them, because we talk about fabrics that are used to being across the nuclei, that are disconnected, that are in discontinuities, that sometimes have very big measurements regarding the original nuclei, that have communication deficiencies, that do greatly increase the costs of infrastructure, so many services – of transport, sanitation, energy, telecommunications –, as well as municipal services, eh? , of everything that is security, of everything that is clean, of everything that is collected from waste... ; they cause, moreover, a great fragmentation of landscape, it is to say that they damage the environmental quality of our country, and, ultimately, conform one of the main urban problems that we have. And, indeed, the Synod of Greuges has made some report to respect; a report that we always pay close attention to. They generate this increase in spending, in short, running, and it's a problem, I insist, that it's been flushing for decades. Fortunately we are in the 21st century, the company has incorporated in good measure notions of, we could say, territorial efficiency, landscape, environmental, as a value to preserve, as a value to enhance, and this fact often generates strident contradictions, very strident, with realities and hereditary situations. Today I would say that I can confirm that our citizens no longer accept or value these scattered urban fabrics, with many miscommunicated occasions, which generate more disadvantages than the opposite, but we do have them, we do have them, and we have something to do with them. There's a valuable piece of work – I don't deny it, huh? –: Law 3/2009, of regularization and better urbanization with urbanistic deficiencies, also the Law of Urbanism and also some urbanistic instruments, like the same partial territorial plans. But now we see that it actually has to go one step further, huh? We have to take a step, decisively, to deal with this problem. We are a governing government, we have many clear things, but in any case we do not comply only with the diagnostics, but we are also people of action. And, as with housing, as I explained this morning, we have approved a decree which we intend, therefore, to validate itself at the plenary of the coming week in order to advance in effective policies on housing issues, we must also advance in what is the management of urban areas. This Law 3/2009, of regularization of urban settlements with urban deficiencies, has had a scarce application; it has had a scarce application not by inaction of the current government but also at the time of implementation on the part of the later tripartite government, because, let us make it clear, the application of this law requires an insurmountable amount of expenditure for the public archives and for the very residents of these rights. Nevertheless, there have been formulas in one and the other places that have allowed us to face this problem. However, to refer specifically to me, the later call for help that included this law, the one of 2010, assumed that of the 324 requests processed to facilitate the regularization and execution of pending works would be dismissed 246. From these 246, a total of 123 were not to be finished adapting to the same call, which made a head, say, a topall of 300,000 euros, and which, therefore, of 300,000 in 300,000 as much exhausted the presuppositional game that had been destined for it. At last they were going to grant seventy-eight, say, seventy-eight shippers were approved, but only twenty-eight have completed the work, only twenty-eight. Twenty-five of the 324 that had started procedures, so, it's a scarce application, it's a frankly scarce application. What situation do we have in Catalonia now? We have accounts, with the Observers of the Territories, up to 1,430 settlements, 1,430 of which seven hundred have been received for the joints, say, respect and 730 are not yet regularized; there are many, 730. And before that what are we doing as a government? We are moving to deal with a problem which the Government is asking, which is asking us as the country, which is asking the assemblies. And we are facing it from three ages, from three optics, and I am going, say, from less: the Law of Territories– indeed, I have to mention, the Law of Territories – with which we have been working for a long time; the Pla urbanistic director of unsustainable soils, too, is a tool with which we want to face this problem, and the partial territorial plans, and I will speak specifically about Penedès. You refer to Olivella and the Garraf-Penedès area, an area that I know well – I am the son of Vilanova and Geltrú – and I will refer to this instrument, the territorial plan, specifically in the case of its application to Penedès. The League of Territories. The Law of Territories has a clear objective, that is to promote a planning of the territory with more sustainable parameters, and, therefore, to be able to attend to the diversity of our country, to understand that the economic conjunctures are variable, that we must abandon, say, a uniform application of the territorial order, that we must go, therefore, adapting to the territory, to the heterogeneity of the territory. And concretely in the urbanizations, the Law of the Territory intends to set up a new legal regime, a new legal regime that, deepened in the objectives of Law 3/2009, solves the problem of urbanizations with deficiencies in three camps, with three objectives: first, to facilitate the proper incorporation of urban settlements whenever possible; second, when it does not follow – when it does not follow – to regulate the disposition of building services that can be maintained in order to ensure an adequate quality of life for its residents – urban micro-surgery–, and, third, to adapt the standards required to the singularity of this type of construction, to adapt the standards to the uniqueness of this type of urbanism – and, third, to adapt the standards required to the uniqueness of this type of architecture, to adapt the standards that can be adapted to the uniqueness of this type of urbanism – to the uniqueness of this type of theory; and, third, to adapt the standards required to the uniqueness of this type of architecture, so far as possible, so far as it can be identical. We have another instrument, which is this non-sustainable Review Board, which we have devised, which we have started for the Pyrenees, which we have continued for the Costa Brava and the Girona Trades. Many of our urban planning projects that are now controversial are the legacy of this antiquated planning, responding to this model that we've been disposing of for a long time. We want to prevent the construction of indirects with a high landscape impact, with large slopes..., all that we have defined in the Pla director of unsustainable soils: these 20_per_cent slopes, these discontinuities, these proportions respect the original nuclei. And, therefore, the urban master plan, the PDU, wants to avoid disproportionate or low density weaves. Therefore, we will review, review delimited sectors in urban planning that clearly contradict the determinations of sustainable urban planning, the criteria of territorial planning and socioeconomic dynamics. We need to apply all the concepts that we already have today to plans that many times do not have them incorporated: landscape preservation, environmental sustainability, compaction, optimization in the consumption of soil, etc. Through, in the first instance, these two figures, the Law of Territories and the very Pla director of unsustainable soils, we want to face this problem. In any case, in the reply I can also refer more concretely to the specific instruments to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.305.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then, for the reply, the Member Terrades has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.306.0	I'm... For once... well, I'm a few times in agreement with you. You're one, aren't you? We need to fix the required standards to each of the situations we have. We did not defend any new buildings or increase densities or sustenance. We will probably have to rethink the whole issue of compulsory divestments, because, if not, it will be very complicated to deal with this issue. And the Law of Territories is that four years ago we felt like we were talking and we didn't just have a scrap of text that we could discuss, huh? So it would be good if we could see her someday. And we talked before we called, didn't we? I will raise another issue: we believe that we need to re-open the whole process of summoning above all the Law of the barrel board. And don't tell me you don't have any assumptions, because the government's obligation is to rule; we think it's a government's obligation. And if the government finds that they can't do it, because they don't have the instruments to do it, I think that... today, this morning, almost all parliamentary groups, except the two who support the government, were demanding that if they don't have the instruments, they give the citizen and the citizens the view and convince the president to call elections, right? But I want to talk to him about housing, barrels, probably urbanisations with urban deficiencies and climate change, because there are three concepts that are connected to each other, right? I sincerely believe that there is no clear commitment from you to housing policy, and that you hold the exclusive title of housing policies. There is a lack of absolute complicity with the joints, so with those who have urbanisations with urban deficiencies, so with the joints where they have been swept around with buildings of more than forty-fifty years old, it is necessary to make a determined action of rehabilitation of this housing park and above all thinking of energy rehabilitation. We believe that a genuine public policy of rehabilitation should be set aside, first of all, that it should identify the situation of these buildings and set aside – set aside – a programme of subsidies with the will to accompany the owners in order to boost the betterment of their buildings, on the line that has already been drawn by the Barley, which is a law that is in force and that does not come into force; in the period from 2004 to 2010, it served as a reference to the surroundings of these barrels, and we believe that we are now to act decisively on the habitats. Therefore, we firmly believe that it is in your own presuppositions, if you present them to Parliament, that you call for the barrel plan in this line, concretely, of energetic rehabilitation of the buildings. Why? So to compliment the Climate Change Law, on its article 27.2 tells us and clearly states that the Catalan strategy passes through the energetic rehabilitation of the housing park. I, out there! The Climate Change Law tells them that there should be a minimum of annual performances. And how much do I fix it? In fifty thousand habitations. Without public calls, this will not be possible. And we believe that the adaptation and mitigation of climate change does not go through great proclamations as we sometimes listen but through decided and concrete actions. And there is no more determined and concrete action than re-activating the Barley Bill and re-opening calls with this goal. Because we believe that urban planning and housing policy in the service of cohesion, in the service of equity and the fight against climate change is essential and that its policy at these times, if it does not change, does not contribute to it. Quickly apply solutions, present the presupposition and obrin nine summonses that help us solve problems there where we have a low-intensity residential fabric and above all where we have a found habitat problem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.307.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. To finish the inquiry, the counselor has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.308.0	I'll have to... sorry. Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Councillor... I will now have to justify that this inquiry has not been agreed and that somehow, I say, it has not followed what is said a dedicated disk, eh? , because, in other words, you ask us to open, so help in the rehabilitation of the communities of owners and specifically everything that refers to investments in rehabilitation, energy efficiency and accessibility, and we just did it. I can teach the mobile the call for, uh, the explanation, huh? , the government note explaining that we open a line of credit to finance the rehabilitation expenses of the communities of owners, blah, blah, blah. This is from today. That's what we called the ICF-3 line, huh? Know that we have started this legislature with two lines of credit, the ICF-1 and the ICF-2, of a total of 250_million, to focus on housing policies, both purchase and promotion, and we have opened this ICF-3 line. And today the government... I think it's from today; it doesn't seem like it's... maybe it's from yesterday night, because I retweeted it. If you look for my profile, you'll see it, huh? But in any case, I retweeted it today. And this ICF-3 line is exactly €100_million. That's what you're claiming. You tell me: "I made calls to influence the energy efficiency of the habitats, which is a way to influence the fight against climate change. They've just done it. We have just done so, because, indeed, a government that governs, we have predicted, we have worked. This I did not improvise between you presenting the inquiry and talking, but that we have been working for a long time, a job between the Catalan Institute of Finance and the Agency of the Habitat of Catalonia. What was also related to another news that came out this week around the ITS, huh? , an update of which refers to ITES. One thing has to be connected to the other. ITEs are the ones that take us back to the ability to support these grants, this ICF-3 line. You said we'd land at the side of the joints. I think we've always been together; it's our obligation. We are effectively the competent, we are the urban authority and we are also the competent in the matter of housing. He said: "Exclusive. Home, yes, but we're missing one, and I always say it and I have to repeat: we're missing one, which is economics, huh? You know that the money that is devoted to the plans of the habitation, to the band of those who can put the presupposition of the Generalitat in a way, therefore, directly, in its main part come from the famous plans of the housing that approves the corresponding ministry. At some time it was the Ministry of Housing, which I have always criticized; I find that the Government of the State should not have a Ministry of Housing precisely because the competitions are from the autonomous communities, but in any case there was. And now he's from the Ministry of Development. And yes, actually, he's made us a plan for the underdominated housing and, in the band of infringement, misconceived, because he's dealt with us from the efficiency fund, which I've criticized on many occasions. In any case, housing policies, finances. We want to continue working together, the parliamentary groups that worry about this issue, that we really care about this issue, and at the side of the assemblies, as we always do. I have started with the issue of housing and I would also like to finish this intervention talking about the Barrel Law. You put it on the table. I must say it honestly, and I have always said it publicly, that the Barley is a good law. I have said this, including his direct manager, Councilman Nadal, and Secretary Oriol Nel·lo, with whom I have a good relationship. That's the law you wanted to be me when I was Chief Executive Officer of Habitatge, huh? , that we performed in the barrel, but we didn't finish enabling a law as integral as the Barrel Law. It's a good law, they've taken advantage of the gatherings. With what I've been a registrar, I can tell too. The Barley acted on many municipalities, benefited one hundred_disset municipalities, where 70_per_cent of the population of Catalonia resides, images's. And what we have to do is to adjust the economic capacity of the Government of the Generality, which has gone through a deep economic and financial crisis, to the end of this law. There have been some difficulties on the part of some meetings to finish it and we have been doing the necessary prorogations..., we have been paying and we have done the necessary prorogations to complete the calls for the year 2009 and the year 2010. We are proud to have done so at a time of extreme economic difficulty for the Government of the Generality. And we want to go further, already, so, with nine calls, that we would very much like to open them up if we had assumptions, as with other instruments, always at the side of the joints to achieve the best possible urbanism and the best possible housing policy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.309.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the fight against unemployment and job insecurity]] [[300-00106/12]] Having exhausted this point, let's go to the next point, which is the question to the Government about the struggle against unemployment and job insecurity, also presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. To expose the inquiry, has the word for a time of two minutes the deputy Pol Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.310.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, Members and Members who still remain and resist in this House of Parliament, is pleased, too, that you are accompanying in this last question. On a few days, as you know, we'll celebrate the 133rd anniversary of the Chicago riots, some riots that culminated in the eight-hour working day and that we all celebrate, since the progressive band, right? ; some revolts that defended labor rights and cost drawings of dead people on the street and tortured and welcomed people. And the story, obviously just, reserved a day to celebrate that tape, that fight. And today we keep remembering every May 1st, International Workers' Day, that struggle for social and labor rights that hit the world. Spain still played us waiting thirty years to get the eight-hour working day, but it must be said that it was one of the first countries in Europe to get it. And we did it after the wave known as the wave of La Canadenca, of which now a hundred years ago; precisely this year a hundred years ago of the wave of La Canadenca. And the other day at the Labour Commission we could comment on this vacancy, right? And also regret that a historical tape of this level, like a hundred years of La Canadenca, and that it is studied at many places and at many books of history, passed through this country without any type of recognition. It's also a pity about the country. It is in this context of struggle for labour rights that our parliamentary group today calls on the Councillor of Treball, at a time when macroeconomic data gives us the impression that we have come out of the long and dark tunnel of the crisis, but also many data tell us that there are many people who still do not see the light at the end of this tunnel. In Catalonia, 20_per_cent more rich earns six times more than 20_per_cent poorer. This great inequality had decreased from 2014 to 2016, but now we see how it is increasing again. Moreover, the poor increase; affects 24_percent of the population, a point more than the previous year. But it doesn't just increase, but it's chronic, and the supposed economic recovery doesn't translate into a million living conditions. Precarity in the workplace makes this poor woman normal and, more importantly, she's perpetual. If we have a 87_per_cent of contracts that sign that they are temporary, how can they generate stabilization and life projects? It's impossible. With a temporality rate of 22_per_cent and since 2004 it has also increased. And if we also speak of equality, we also speak of bretxa de genere; it remains persistent: an 18_percent of women hold under the minimum wage, an 18_percent. Absolutely intolerable. In Catalonia, in addition, a 12_percent of the working people do not overcome the outburst of the poor. And it's also growing in line with the previous year, and it's growing by the second year. As a result of all the folds, the half of the population that Catalonia has has difficulties to arrive at the end of the month, the half. Moreover, yesterday we met the data of the time, and unfortunately they are not the best we could expect: we had the smallest download of the time in a month since March 2012, and a given one still worse if we compare it with the behavior of the rest of the State. And if we look at it for the collection and we stick to the magnifying glass, we'll see how the weather continues to grow among the majors of forty-five years, women, young people or immigrants. Almost nothing. Counselor, in these three years the indicators are penetrating on different fronts, when the previous trend was to improve. Just in the same period in which you occupied the portfolio of Work and Social Affairs; you or your predecessor in this case. And I don't want to establish a direct relationship between one thing and another, because I wouldn't seem right at all either. But it is clear that his government's action has not been able to face this fight against inequalities as it should. In a context of economic improvement, social data do not improve. We have, for one band, more inequality, more temporality, more poor workers and more accidents at work, and, for the other, less social investment, less protected workers, less resources to fight hard or for the return of young emigrants. And I'll have a moment at this point, at the young emigrants. Counselor, do you know when it was the first time this House or a committee approved a youth return plan? It was the year 2013–2013–, in a monographic ple of youth that took place in this very Ple of Parliament. A few years before you were the bearer of Avalot, for which you will remember quite well. Six years—six years—to set aside a youth return plan, six years, and forty thousand emigrants out of this country. They had to leave more than forty thousand people and they were unable to put in a little help because these people could return to the country; a country that we all admire and believe should be of opportunity, but in that no one helped this people to return to this country; a measure that applied, on the other hand, to many autonomous communities, from Canaries to the Basque Country or Andalusia, there was nothing we had to invent from here, already done. But re, there was no way. In fact, they triaged years to act, and finally they ended up putting in the way of a website that was called the "MónCat" portal with which they wanted to cover the shipment, and until a few months ago there was no real help to which the people could gather. Counselor, it's taking them a long time to get to work. You know that comparisons are hateful and would not want to do them, but have you compared the battery of measures that Pedro Sánchez's government has put on the table and that you bring to the plenary? And I'm no longer talking to you only about the work area, but about any topic that you can choose. You go for the fourth year of government, not for the first, and it just seems like you're starting to rule two days ago. But not only do they not govern, but they simply fail to complete the mandates of this Parliament. And I'll just give you three examples, I could put a lot more: the FP Law and its accreditations, the Catalan mark of the quality of practices, in this case also for the affection it has in the fellows, and motions and resolutions of the Parliament, which I will also explain some further. Do you know how many accreditations and qualifications were to be made every year when the PS Law was approved, counselor? One hundred thousand accreditations had to be made every year. Do you know how many open ones there are now? Not more than a thousand. The difference is abysmal. And it's a subject that social workers have asked for by active and passive: putting a real credit in the market. And we don't see that. We have drawings of thousands of hard-working or job-precarious workers who could improve their options of finding a job or improving what they already have if they see recognition of their skills; if not, it is a plate that weighs on their existence. On the other hand, if we focus on young people, the Government has, for years, failed to carry the parliamentary mandate to promote a Catalan quality of practice framework, requested by the full Youth Commission and the National Youth Council of Catalonia. Do you know when this warrant was approved? July 2015. Doesn't he worry you that thousands of fellows are being exploited while businesses are getting their hands dirty? Don't you think you could do more to avoid this situation, counselor? But if there is an example of the government's inopérance this is the management of the Automotive Professional Training Centre. This morning we asked him, both my group president and my fellow Member Esther Niubó, and we want to insist again that the answers, let's say, are either elusive or non-existent. As you know, the construction of the centre began on the 1st generation of 2012, with a reversal of more than 18_million euros, and it had to be a leading center in the sector and of reference to the state. It was finally inaugurated on March 20, 2015, more than four years ago, practically. In the last few years, some three hundred annual students have passed through the training centre, when their capacity is highest up to fourteen thousand. Fourteen thousand against three hundred; the margin is spectacular. Taking into account the lack of qualified staff, expressed by entities and businesses, and the rate of time there were in recent years, do you think it is tolerable to have a centre like this without working? This week we were able to listen to the Automotive Cluster, which gathers a large part of the sectors involved. Far from asking for a solution, he said enough, and is looking for a B plate, just like. You believe, counselor, that after seeing more than six hundred Nissan workers are announced, can we afford the luxury of holding a center up in a government conflict? Do you think, counselor, that with the moment of change that sees the automotive sector we have to keep at death a center that can recycle you and update more than fourteen thousand workers every year? You think, counselor, that after making an investment of 18_million euros, we have to see how the sector is supposed to do its own training center, when it has one hundred_metres from the door of the SEAT? He's absolutely indignant. The whole opposition agrees with one thing: its government is absolutely inoperative. It was said by active and passive and by very different groups in this room. And we find in the center of Martorell one of the clearest examples. Stop arguing between you and do your job. It'd be a good time. If we even find that the Martorell Assembly, governed by the PDECAT and the Republican Left, threatened to ask for the return of the lands surrendered at that time to the Auto Center, for breach of the contract, and, moreover, to study to lay an administrative content. His own people in the territory are giving him this; they can't stand the excuses or the people of his own party. You, your government's advisors, have been discussing five years who has the competence of the center, while the rest of the mortals – assemblies, parties, Parliament, companies and unions – remain puzzled before this intolerable situation. And while we look at the electric car, the autonomous drive or the digitalization is coming back a year ago, and we have our main training tool up to date. Lost opportunities, unable to form, and all because of a mismanagement of his government. And I'm done, counselor. If the best social policy is work, maybe there's a little more interest in it. You have your hands to fight inequalities with the action of your government. And it's an absolute pride and I'd like to be able to do that. Not everyone can say it. You can do it, just in this case. So you make use of this power that the citizenry has given to you, as a counselor, and improve the working conditions of Catalans and Catalans. Citizen's drawings will grace him and grace him very much. He's at his hands, counselor, for which we expect much more than you. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.311.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Then he has the word, to answer the question, the advisor Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.312.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Members and Members who remain at this time... Mr Gibert, look, we will leave by the end a point of the head-to-head that is inevitable in these interrogation processes and we will remember some things, too, around the responsibilities of all and all around a labor market that is precarious, a labour market regulation that is precarious, a labour market regulation that unfortunately does not have competence to respect; I will focus on what we have skills, but then we will do a couple of reflections on some things that have not been done and we will remember some phrases. And I think you're already conscious. Because I'm sure you yourself agree with me – you agree with me. I'm not sure. He won't say anything about this bean, but I'm sure he agrees with me. And you yourself know what we're talking about: from inopportunity to the time to fulfill what was promised, from inopportunity to the time to return rights to the normal labour market. And I think we're all aware of that. We'll go deeper later. I think it is worth focusing on the instruments that we have right now, as we are dealing with it, how we work day by day to bring about a key aspect: there is no better social policy than quality work. And that's the answer. You set me up with the data mark, you set me up comparing it at some point with other territories of the State. It has not found that we have a tax of up to four points per under the state middle. It has not found that we have an activity fee three points per over the mid-state. I think that also counts, and explains our company and explains our product model. And that must also be taken into account. And it's in this sense that we're working and we're still working. Isn't it reasonable? We've got 400,000 ups and downs; 399,000 and ups and downs, according to the last EPA, 400,000. And we'll keep working. And we will continue to work to reduce it, but what is more important: because the work that is generated is of quality. From here on out, he gave me an entrance to the young people who emigrate. You yourself have come to the conclusion that the government that has put forward proposals and helped them to facilitate the return has been the government I am in. I mean, you set it up yourself; you don't have to answer it. He talked about the fourth year of government. I have no problem with the kingly thread that binds me, and that binds me much more beyond the government, with the Lower Councillor. Now, I think it's cheating on the lonely talking about four years of government; it's cheating on the lonely, and we have to tell each other. You talked about young people, women, emigrants. I wanted to talk to you about the reality of migrants. Because, of course, a state that is a warhead, on the south coast of the State, almost seven_thousand people, seven_thousand human beings during 2018, and what it does is a poor humanity's attention – it gives them an expulsion order and a bus ticket – is a state that needs to rethink what it does – that needs to rethink what it does. A state that generates is most vulnerable to these people. A state that does what it does is not brave. Because, look, I don't want to have a discussion with you about migration policies, but what I'm aware of is that there have been migration policies a lot harder but that they do an honest exercise, which is that if they can't apply the expulsion order, they give a work permit. Because if we don't, we're generating a double-vulnerability crowd, which, like at least, until three years ago, can't start a process of setting up and regularizing their situation, which is to think about it. And that happens, and it happened, and I found myself on June 2nd, with a change to the state government at the same time, with a change in logic, and I spoke to the minister and the state secretary at the same time, in logic, but they did not change the concrete acts. And people continue to arrive with an order of expulsion that what we do is to generate them in the world of precariousness, is to generate a small reserve army for the submerged economy, a reserve army that feeds it is the same kafkià system of the State. A thought. And, of course, speaking of that, we are very proud this July to present a theme that the Lower Councillor worked with Secretary Amoros and that I was fortunate enough to be able to present, which is exemplary, that is the Acol programme, the Acol programme of the SOC; a program that allowed us, with a hundred people in a situation of administrative irregularity, to take advantage of training plans and work to regularize their situation. And that's what we're working on, not generating double vulnerabilities for the same kafkia system. I wanted to position it because it's key, that's key, that's it. When we talk about migrants and when we talk about the situation of job insecurity we need to talk about what we generate. And then we can talk about inequalities, what it means to say Mohammed, to say Naïma, at the time of the job placement; the reptiles that we have around the Czech résumés, the reptiles that we have around all these rights. And we can talk about it with no problem, and we're conscious. But the first is the first, and the first is not to generate vulnerability from the same Administration, as it does with this surreal situation. He also told me – and here in a little bit – about the tools we have. For one thing, the tools we have: the social-tenimal concertation work around the catal mark of labour relations, the work around not having the skills around the regulation of the work model, but being able to reach the basic agreements with the economic and social fabric, with the economic fabric and with the unions. And I think that in this we are and we have been a department that has resolved a conflict since 2007 – since 2007 –, this conflict, that of the representativeness of employers; a conflict that did limit the ability of concertation, because it was a living conflict between employers. Whoever solved it followed this government; also situate it. Since 2007, huh? The conflict is alive, with everything that's happened. As far as we're concerned, as far as we're concerned, as far as we're concerned. So we also work around the promotion of preventive culture in the matter of safety and health, because here there is also an element of reproduction of inequality. Social risks are associated with precarious practices, and this was also associated with origins, social, ethnic, and cultural origins. Other aspects. Occupational policies. We have focused on the most vulnerable groups, we have focused the effort of the entire SOC programme contract on the most vulnerable groups. In women, we have the Catalan Occupational Strategy and the Occupational Policy Development Plan. And I'm not just talking about the wage bracket, which is a shame in 2019, but it's also where it is, because it has to be: eight percentage points lower than men in activity rate and higher in attitude rate. We need to address this from the Catalan Occupational Strategy and the Occupational Policy Development Plan. As a young person, we have been recognized as the European region that has made the best application of the Youth Guarantee, and you are not aware – and you are not aware. I think it's an example of good work. With migrants, I have explained to him the Acol project; it is a clear example of how we address a double vulnerability around the situation of administrative irregularity, and, what is more worrying, the irregularity survives, and how we work, that this is also an element that we should talk about, how we make it more flexible, as we avoid people who are in a situation of regularity ending up in a situation of irregularity after participating in this society for years. We spoke and spoke also of professional training, and he spoke specifically of the vocational training centre..., of the Centre de Formation d'Automoció. I explained this morning, our work is about increasing training, taking advantage of the deployment of the Catalan Professional Training Agency, which we are doing more with the Education Department, more with me, and finally overcoming some logical counters that had been in all governments, depending on the color that followed – the color that followed. And what we're gonna do at the Auto Center is that it's in the same logic, that it's concertation, that it's shared governance. And we'll get out of it; we've got it clear..., priority. Now, we also find at the same time that the automotive sector is not exactly happy with the actions that the State Government has had, huh? As a matter of fact, that's also to be taken into account. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And I'm running out of time. And then we'll think about the first point, which I think is very important.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.313.0	Thank you, Counselor. The Member asked to make the reply followed the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.314.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, thank you, for..., went to say thank you for the answers, well, thank you for the intervention. The answers, let's say, have been few; the intervention followed what it was playing, for five minutes... You have devoted these two minutes – forgive me –, you have not devoted, I don't know, five to talking about immigration policies, which is a very important issue, but it seems to me that it was not the object of this inquiry, at least from this parliamentary group, which, let's say... I pray you, is on the subject of the inquiry, which is the subject that we have come here today to debate. I also wanted to comment on it..., you also comment on the solution, which we obviously have found a solution to the employer's representation for the concertation, which is obviously very important, but it was not the object of this inquiry either. It seems like a lot of good news, let's just say, but it wasn't the subject we were dealing with today. And you've talked a lot about what we've been asking you about. We've been asking him about the young man's occupation policies. You told me: "We have been awarded the Youth Guarantee. And I say to him: « You know that this Parliament has already denounced the €42_million return from the Youth Guarantee. And so far you're saying, "That's what I made up, the Socialist Parliamentary Group; that's one thing, that's it, that they get it from some data that aren't real, right? But the other day..., it was curious that the other day, in a committee of this Parliament, we were talking about autonomous, if I don't recall correctly, the CTESC – the CTESC, a social entity, let's say, not suspected of any party – asked where these 42_million euros were and what had been done with them, with which this question follows the air. I wouldn't be so bold to take out five awards, and maybe I'd be more careful to see what's going on with public resources, right? I also said to you: "We have focused SOC policies on the most vulnerable groups, and I celebrate it; but I also say to him: the data I have just given him do not accompany him. It means that either your management of employment policies is not the right one, let's just say it, or we have a worse underground crisis than we thought we had, with which also a reflection because you do..., from the management that you have to make of active policies. Because if the policies were focused on the collection, as it used to be, young people, more than forty-five years old or women, and the collections of these people suffer from a higher strain than they did a year ago... which we have a pretty hard problem with, right? You obviously... didn't, but you mentioned it, let's say it, and you say to me, "I'll comment on it later, won't I? And you came here to criticize the action of the government of Pedro Sánchez, let's say, covertly. I suppose he'll do it at his own pace, and I'll give him the answer before you can do it, won't you? But as you will obviously be referring to an acquired compromise that has not just been developed – also because of the lack of majority parliaments, that here in this Parliament we are always..., you know quite well what I am talking about, don't you? – I want to remind you of some measures that have been approved or are on the way to being approved and that are important to combat job insecurity and hard work, right? I will not remember just a few, I will not make a very long list: 600_million euros to fight youth this year– 600_million euros; it is not a small thing–; three_thousand advisors to do a personalized attention to the ups and downs– you know, as I do, that personalized attention is vital to achieve a successful job insertion–; the fall in paternality, approved today, of eight weeks; the increase in the number of inspectors– a subject that you and I have discussed many times and that I suppose we celebrate –; the decline in age to pay for the fifty-two years– also a very important measure that affects a lot of people in a very delicate situation–; the rise in the minimum wage of a 22_percent until the beginning of the month; the rise in the number of unemployed, or the number of unemployed; the increase in the number of unemployed, the number of unemployed, the number of unemployed, the number of unemployed, the number of unemployed, the number of unemployed, the number of unemployed, the number of unemployed, the number of unemployed, the number of unemployed, the number of unemployed; Everything I've said to you, does it look good or hurt like employment policies, like impulse policies in the fight against hard work and job insertion? I think they share that they're good, don't they? So some of them weren't able to develop them because their political formation voted against social assumptions that were better for the working people of this country, thanks to their political party, with which thing, lessons about commitments and willingness to work, right? Tell me. And, besides, you too, which is obviously a complaint that you don't have enough skills to do it..., when a government does what you more or less would do if you were governed, so the major denies it, votes against a presumption and makes it fall. Listen, every one of them makes their own decisions, right? You, moreover, do not have a better SOC than before, with which..., also the Parliament has often asked you to do so; you continue without doing so. He has not spoken about professional accreditation, a subject that for us is very important and that we will continue to repeat after a long time. And he's telling me about the FP training center as a theme... well, we'll see how we handle it. I remind you that your secretary general, Mr. Ginesta, did not come to the committee, three months ago, and commented that basically the issue was already solved, that there was a departure from the clauses in the march and that we would soon know how the story ended. Today, we don't know how... the Automotive Cluster announces it's looking for a B plate. With which, counselor, I humbly recommend, from my position as deputy of this chamber, that, in order to try to pull pilots out and not talk about the fears that a deputy asks, answer the questions. They're important. I think we'll all hear each other better if we answer what we're asking, and we'll do the country a favor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.315.0	Thank you, Mr. Gibert. To finish you have the word the counselor for the final replica.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.316.0	I'll try to go fast, so I won't leave anything. First, you do the questioning, I answer it, and in some of the issues I'm left with. And if you're talking about how we're getting out of the labour market, an important part of this country's population is not a priority, so it's going to be for you, but I'm at the center of the migration policy around the labour market. If for you the concertation exercise, which is one of the key elements that we have at the time to activate the labor market, it has little importance, so look, I am in the center, and nothing happens, and I explain it, because I think it matters. From here you can argue. If for you who executes, who drives the youth guarantee, which is the European Commission, congratulates us and rewards us for being one of the territories that he has better managed has no importance, of course, very good; for me it does matter, nothing happens. I suppose you don't care about this: "The first step the next socialist government will take will be to repeal Rajoy's labor reform to recover workers' rights as soon as possible, you don't have to care about it – it's not my phrase. "The Socialists and the Socialists will immediately repeal all the labour reform of the PP, which established a model of precarious employment, low wages, cheap layoffs, and a system of unbalanced labour relations between workers and employers. What do I say? That you have maintained an employment reform which is a model of precarious employment, low wages, cheap redundancies, and a system of unbalanced labour relations between workers and employers? Is that what I'm saying? It's his diagnosis and it's this fact, it's gone. And they have done nothing – they have done nothing – and it is the central element. Because, let us not deceive ourselves – let us not deceive ourselves – when we speak of the quality of work, we cannot deny that there is an element... First, the preponderance of agreements, which is sectoral over the business agreement; and you know it as well as I do. According to Articles 42 and 43 of the Staff Regulations, another promise that nothing has been done. Oh, isn't it? Doesn't that have anything to do with it? Doesn't that have anything to do with working conditions? If you say so! : model of precarious work, low wages, cheap accommodation and system of labor relations without balance of power between workers and entrepreneurs. It's all right, it's all right! From here, let each one assume its contradictions. But after new months nothing happened, no intention. It's all right. From here, let each one assume its contradictions. He told me about the SOC. I would like to comment on this: we have done a specific work with the collectives; from here on, we would like to draw attention to the decree of territorial strategies, of territorial strategies of the SOC, because we consider that the best way to work around active employment policies is by concertation of the territory, with the capacity to make policies with a diagnosis and with a strategy, working in the territory. And we do, then, aim to get it up, because we believe it, not for another element. I don't know, maybe you'll explain to me that we'll have some good surprise... it'll be spectacular. The advisors. I found it very well, but we don't solve the historical problem, we don't solve it, and we don't want to solve it, even though we share the diagnosis. What do we do? Why do we have to negotiate every year the cent_per_cent of the sectoral conference? Why every year...? Still don't know, huh? In April, we'll know. Will we stop doing active occupation policies? We create a system that does, that all the advisors are in precarious condition. And the three hundred us who will come to Catalonia – I no longer speak of three thousand – will be another precarious time; another three-year program to generate more precariousness. At some point we'll have to settle down. And the government of the state knows, that all the territories – also the governments for the socialists – come from time to time for all that we have these funds without negotiating them every year, without generating precariousness to the same advisors. You talked about conciliation. I'm telling you, it's fine, it's fine what they've done since the workplace. Now, a little concertation, when I speak of the DNA of this department, we should do it, because they have all the entities that have not taken into account the cures, that have not taken into account the single parent families... I think it's worth it – I think it's worth it – because good news makes it a pain, and that of the SMI with the special centers of work is not the example: a great news makes it a pain, not taking into account all the derivatives and not completing the competitions that they have. And that's what they do, that's what they do. What they do is this, and then the others...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.317.0	You're out of here, Mr. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.318.0	...that they manage it. So I don't think it's the most reasonable way to do it. We don't do this with meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-04-03-2801.319.0	Thank you, Counselor. Finished this point of the order of the day, it's time to suspend the session until tomorrow morning.
