ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.1.0	Let's start the session. The list of questions to be answered orally to the plenary is included in the dossier which is facilitated and, in accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules, will be replaced this morning, as the first item of the order of the day of this plenary session. I also recall that, in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules, the deputies Raquel Sans and Adriana Delgado, for reasons of motherhood, have delegated their vote to the deputy Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group. And I also remind you that Members Oriol Junqueras and Raül Romeva have appointed Deputy Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, to exercise their parliamentary rights. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Before starting the order of the day, I must inform you that, according to the official data of the Department of Interior, it is confirmed that the woman murdered the 30-genre proppassat, to Reus, is ill-advisedly, the first mortal victim of this year, for male violence in Catalonia. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime, and I join the condol declaration expressed by the People's Equality Commission on February 5. So, I repeat, as always, Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women, and to age for the record and memory of these victims. We start with the first point of the order of the day, which are the questions with oral answer. Before starting the questions, and answering the request made by the Government, the proposals, in conformity with what is laid down in Article 81.3 of the Rules, altering the order of the oral questions, so that the first and second questions to the Government can substantiate the final oral questions of the Government, that is, after question 10. Can this alteration be approved by consent? Yeah? [[Pause.]] [[Ask the Government about the Emergencies and Security System (withdrawn)]] [[310-00115/12]] The fact is, too, that the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group has withdrawn its question number 4. [[Ask the Government about the closure of the 2018 fiscal year]] [[310-00114/12]] So let's go to the questions, and start with Question 3, which is the question to the Government to answer orally about the closure of the 2018 fiscal year, question posed for the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the word, to expose it, Mrs Lluïsa Llop, when she wants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.2.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning, president; advisers, advisers; deputies, deputies; vice president Aragonès. The management of Esquerra Republicana at the head of the Economics Council has been characterized by the willingness to reconcile the essential need to guarantee and increase social expenditure, provided that the objectives of the deficit are completed. To square this binomial has aspired to good management, generating efficiency and savings, with pioneering measures, such as the Expenditure Review Program, or the dimensioning of the Generality entries. The compromise with the state of welfare and good budgetary management, which under the direction of Vice-President Oriol Junqueras, caused the Generality, in the 2017 fiscal year, to complement the deficit objective for the first time, with those that were then the most social assumptions of history, but that were also the assumptions that incorporated the new social rights cabdals, such as the guaranteed income of citizenship. And let me – and I do not want to be 'n' – quote Vice-President Oriol Junqueras, I recalled that both he and many of the companies, deputies and political prisoners of this Parliament and the rest of the Catalan society are at these times in the Supreme Court making politics, in the sense that the Spanish State is a state that has maintained an absolutely democratic attitude. As I said, we closed the 2017 premise by completing the deficit target. Vice-President: Has the good management of the Generality continued to deliver the expected results, and has allowed the deficit target to be completed by 2018?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the words of Mr Pere Aragonès, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.4.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very good morning, ladies and gentlemen; very good day this week that is celebrating the International Day of Solidarity with the Malalties Minorities and for this reason, the members of the Government and some Members, we find this sign, to visualize these malalties and express the Government's commitment to its treatment in the public health system. Certainly, honourable Member, the Generalitat de Catalunya is continuing, not only to comply with its financial obligations, but to advance towards full fiscal sustainability. The deficit target for the year 2018 was 0.4_percent of gross domestic product. An objective which, it is to say, unilaterally fixed for the Ministry of Heritage, but in the end it was the maximum in which the Generality could finance itself and therefore, its compliment was necessary, if what we wanted was to maintain the current fall in payments at the level of the Treasury and, therefore, be able to face all our compliments. We have completed the objective. For the second year as a result, the Government of Catalonia completes the fiscal targets of deficit and also, obviously, debt. The year 2018 was already set at 0.38_percent of gross domestic product; therefore, 873_million euros. This allows us to stabilize much better the finances of the Generality, to have just started the house and to lay the groundwork for the new presuppositionary increments that must be made for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.5.0	Thank you, Vice President. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word, when she wants to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.6.0	Thank you, President. Therefore, we must congratulate ourselves on closing 2018 with this temporary deficit that announced to us, of 0.38_per_cent, together with the growth of this fixed target of 0.4. A compromise with rigour in the management of public finances, which has not been an obstacle to consolidate the way of reversal of the retail, given that it has occurred thanks to the good management that we had previously been, and also to the increase of the tickets. Increase in income, the result of the good margin of the Catalan economy, but also of the bet to create new tax figures that advance towards a greener, and socially fairer taxation. Vice-President: do you intend to follow the path of the compliment of the binomial increase of social expenditure and the compliment of the deficit objectives? From the Republic Group, it seems essential to us to be able to offer the best services to the citizenry, and also to carry out the full control of the finances of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, the Deputy President of the Government has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.8.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, honourable Member, we plan to continue this line of rigour in the management of public finances, because we estimate our public finances, precisely because we understand that they are necessary to provide public services to the vast majority of the population. If we do not manage public finances rigorously, we would be putting at risk the provision of the necessary public services of the welfare state in Catalonia, which are necessary for the majority of the population of this country. If we take as reference the year 2010, in which there was the maximum level of presuppositional deficit, it was a maximum history of 9,100_million euros of red numbers. There has been a reduction, in new years, of 8,227_million euros. An adjustment of this outlay, higher than 90_per_cent, accompanied since the year 2015, by an increase in social spending. Therefore, this binomial rigour/increase of social spending-sustainability of the welfare state, continues and will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.9.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Government about the Pla d'inversions de Ports de la Generalitat]] [[310-00116/12]] As the fourth question has been withdrawn, let's move to the fifth, which is about the Pla d'inversions to the ports of the Generalitat, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.10.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, President of the Generality; very good morning. I hope that the Councillor will not'molesti' if I tell him that I would prefer to ask this question to Councillor Rull, of whom, on the other day, I was able to attend his statement before the Supreme Court, full of dignity, all of which were demonstrated and each of the lies that the prosecution said, especially the one concerning the "piolins to the port of Palamós, and he believed, like the rest of political prisoners, his commitment to the country, and above all, to democracy. [[Greetings.]] But, well, he wants and wants to continue working for the country, so I ask him: Ports of the Generalitat manages twenty-two port installations, and talking about ports, obviously, is talking about the impulse of the commercial sector, transport of passengers, and giving support to the fishing sector and compromises, also, with the climate change. We are aware that, in 2017, the Autonomous University made a named study« Economic impact of the activities of the ports of the Generalitat on the Catalan economy. And of the forty-five ports that are the competence of the Generality, that are all, less the ports of Barcelona and Tarragona, that, as it is the ones that give benefits, are the ones that must transmit the 5,5_per_cent of their billing to Ports of the State. The study shows that the activity carried out for the ports competence of the Generalitat has generated, throughout 2017, an invoice of 1,164,000_million euros, and they have donated 10,214 places of work, between direct and indirect. I, for what it does to the economic data of 2018, generated by the activity of the ports, generated a movement of 1,1_million_de_tones, and the fishing activity has a total of 20,800_tones of fish downloaded. We are aware that the Government, and in concrete terms, the Department of Territories and Sustainability that you lead has presented the new Pla de portes de Catalunya, and, for this reason, I would like to ask you, counselor, to explain to us: what will the new Pla de portes de Catalunya consist of, both at the level of planned investments, as well as the strategic lines that will involve this Pla? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.11.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the advisor Mr. Damià Calvet, when he wants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.12.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy, and secretaries of the Bureau, deputies and deputies, members of the Government, I would also prefer that whoever responded was the legitimate councillor of Territories and Sustainability, the friend, Josep Rull, but, effectively, therefore, he also wants the work done by the Department of Territories to continue and for that reason, I am... this, continuing his work. The vice president has said before that the government of the Generalitat is esteemed public finances and I, as councillor of Territori, must say that we estimate the ports. Ports are a very important strategic act of our country. But in order to respond concretely to what he asked me, I would like to distinguish what is the Pla de portes, the Pla d'inversions, both of which are fundamental instruments in the development of these strategic actions. The Pla de portes, that we have..., we are writing it with the time 2030, has various strategic lines: to promote a port system that is an economic engine; a port system centered on the provision of services to the citizenry; to innovate in the matter of governance; to promote the self-financing of the harbour activities, this is a very important theme; an integrated management of the harbour activities, mediating the own company Ports de la Generalitat, or to promote the synergies port-territori, to open the ports to the cities, this is a real obsession that we have with the government. But I would also like to highlight this investment plan. This four-year investment plan, 2019-2022, which we were able to present very few days ago, with a public investment forecast of 30_million euros, based on ensuring the functionality of ports; investments in the tourism sector; enhancing the fishing sector; effectively, also, the commercial sector of goods and transport of passengers; themes– you have mentioned – of better energy efficiency. A public reversal that is distributed between the ports of the demarcation to Girona, with 10_million euros, the ports of the demarcation of Barcelona, 6_million euros; and the ports of the south, of the demarcation of Tarragona – its – in 10_million euros. But the most important of these amounts, of this public investment, are the amounts of private investment that they generate. The ports manage, effectively, directly but also in concessional way. This means public-private collaboration, and this was explained, these public investments of 30_million euros can generate the forecast, it is a private investment of 76_million euros. Therefore, a powerful tool to make ports an economic act, an act that boosts the economy and generates occupation in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.13.0	Counselor, time is running out. [[Pause.]] Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the support it provides to Carles Puigdemont]] [[310-00117/12]] The next question is about the government's support for Carles Puigdemont, presented for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. I have the word, to ask the question, Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.14.0	Mrs Artadi, on Sunday our parliamentary group was in Waterloo to remind Mr Puigdemont that the republic does not exist. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.15.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.16.0	And today, here in this Parliament, I want to ask you whether the government is financially supporting a fugitive from justice, Mr Puigdemont. I ask you exactly: how many thousands of euros does Mr Puigdemont's golden retreat cost us?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.17.0	To answer, has the word Ms. Elsa Artadi, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.18.0	Yes, thank you. Thanks for continuing to pose President Puigdemont at the centre of the debate on politics in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] President Puigdemont, obviously, is not running away, because even you know where he is; not only you, but the police who accompanied them to stop doing the performance that the diumenge does. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.19.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.20.0	Mrs. Artadi, amazing. You knew we were going to ask you about your Government's support for Mr Puigdemont. I asked you for figures: how many thousands of euros. You named it with a sorghum decree, the chita quieting. You, pretending you are not a former president, passed the decree of Mr Puigdemont's office. And now I ask him how much money he costs us. You put in a director of your office who is charging €103,000. And those €103,000, charging Mr. Alay for what, according to the law? Well, to organize the office, to manage the budget, to be the chief of staff. I ask you: What is the budget? What officials do you have? Where is Mr. Puigdemont's office located? Tell them. How is it possible that we may be hidden from information? How is it possible that what we are paying all Catalans, you are hiding it from us? What does Mr. Alay do, Mrs. Artadi? What kind of staff do you have? Stop involving in the fog a support they are giving to a fugitive from justice. In the past plenary we had to ask Mr. Buch what an advisor was doing traveling with Generalitat money to make Mr. Puigdemont's bodyguards. And we told him that was a misappropriation of public funds. If you are now investing the money of all Catalans in economically supporting a fugitive from justice, it is not only embezzlement of public funds, do you know what it is also called, Mrs Artadi? It is called ‘coverage,' it is called ‘economically supporting a fugitive from justice to make his escape effective. And we're going to report that in every instance where we need to do that. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.21.0	Congressman, thank you. To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.22.0	They do and report what they want, obviously. And above all, they complain, because you're dedicating yourself to publicly slandering all day, when it actually doesn't come from here. In any case, there is one thing that is said in Law 6/2003, which tried to modify the PP with its support and which they did not. There's a perfect detail of who's the staff that's been to every one of the offices. A staff that is detailed by law; the same as they have President Mas, President Montilla and President Maragall. The office of President Puigdemont does not cost money, because it is dependent on the Generality, just like that of President Mas. Not so the presidents Maragall and Montilla, they do cost money because they are in other locations. The staff is detailed exactly, and correspond to what is marked for the law. With regard to security, as you know, the Generality does not place security on the President, who does stipulate the law, because the Spanish Government does not allow this service to be given to him. Just as it does not allow – just as it does not allow – a woman to be escorted to President Torra when she travels abroad, just as it does not allow a woman to be escorted to the rest of the members of the Government when we travel abroad, because it surely bothers us to travel abroad. President Puigdemont is not on the part of the Generality, because he has not asked for it, even though he has the right to do so. The House of the Republic, which you are dedicated to telling us all day long chiringuito, blah, blah, blah, nor any contribution from the Generality, are private moneys. The same private money that was paid by the referendum, which we already see in the Supreme Court in this trial against political prisoners [[applause]] - No, no, no, The same private money that finances Cultural Heritage..., and which, certainly, many congratulations, yesterday, for the four_thousand we partners, after the statement of its president, in Jordi Cuixart [[applause]] - No, no, no, We're paying each other because we're like this. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about dependency]] [[310-00118/12]] The next question is about dependence. The question is raised, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, by Mrs Naomi de la Calle.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.24.0	Counselor, according to his own data, in recent years more than eleven thousand Catalans have died waiting for the dependency they had recognized; that is, that these people had recognized a right, but they died waiting for the Administration to guarantee it. In order to get an idea of the magnitude of what we are talking about, according to the data of the council itself, up to 2015 had to be paid up to 105_million_of_euro corresponding to these benefits recognized to the heirs of the deceased people. Many millions should have been given alive to those who needed it, who would have guaranteed their dignity at the last stage of their lives. And, in the end, what should have been dependency benefits, have become a kind of negligence compensation. Are they going to go on like this, or are they going to do something to change things? Is solving this injustice a priority for you?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.25.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, has the word the Lord The Homrani, Counsellor of Work, Social Afers and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.26.0	Thank you, President. As I explained to the last plenary for an inquiry by the Socialist Group, it is a priority for us. The same question was asked to Constellera Bassa in 2006 in March 2006. At that time the amount was at 22,500; now the amount is at 11,000, and this does not get severed. I also explained that 80 per cent of all requests for valuations are made with eighty-two years, when life expectancy is eighty-three. I also explained that 80_percent of the deaths are fan during the first three months, with which there is a job because people make the demand for dependency valuation beforehand. And I also explained how we are working on the expansion of social service teams to make IAPs, which is what allows us to get into this right. And as from 2016 to 2019 we have increased by 35_per_cent the basic service teams, which are the ones that make the PIAs. We will continue to work; we are very clear that this is a priority. I also remind you that the government to which you gave support to Andalusia, from the outside, in the same period had some successes of more than fifty_ thousand people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.27.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.28.0	Look, there are thousands of Catalans who had a need recognized by the Administration and that was never attended by the Generalitat. And I ask you to put yourself not only on the skin of the people who died waiting, but also on the skin of their relatives, who probably had to ask for credits to pay for the resources or stop working to care for their elders. And you, just a month ago, recognized me that you currently have 41_million_euro outstanding for family members to get back what they had to spend on caring for their elders, as the Administration did not. And they also recognize that 96_per_cent of these relatives have not claimed payment, first, because they do not know that they can claim it, and serve this intervention so that they know it, that they can claim it, and that they have to return that money; and second, serve to ask you to stop lying when you answer that you do not know the heirs and therefore do not pay them, because you can know it by inheritance tax. Stop subjecting us to bureaucratic labyrinths to claim our rights, because to claim the dough everything is hasty, but when it comes to loosening the Generalitat everything is trouble. And stop blaming everyone so that you don't take responsibility, because for TV3 there is money; to raise your salary, there is money; but to attend to people you don't have it. Fasten waiting lists so these cases don't happen. And if unfortunately they do, don't try to do business with it and get in touch with those affected. At such terrible times, in the face of the loss of a loved one, do not make them have to claim their rights, that you have a way to know who they are and to compensate for the expenses that they had to face inaction of the Generalitat. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.29.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. To answer the word again the counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.30.0	Thank you, President. Look, it's hard for me, because the conversations we don't listen to are certainly the least useful conversations that are made in this House, and with you I always have this feeling, that I don't listen. I have explained to him who are the priorities; I have explained to him that 80_percent of the dead are given in the three_months after the petition; that they are given with eighty-two years; that here we have to do an exercise because the people ask for the value of dependence before; I have explained to him how we have reduced it in a 40_per_cent; I have explained to him how we are working and how we will continue to reduce it; I could have also explained to him the plan we have made of valuations for the three countries that have the highest list of hope, which are the Maresma, the Western Valley and the Eastern Valley. I can explain many things to you, but it's that you already go with the written script, and like that you don't care what I say to you what I do is explain it to the rest of the House, because I think it's, like at least, the one that has to make a counselor from this government. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.31.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the situation of justice]] [[310-00110/12]] The next question, and I have to apologize, because – yes, I suppose that's what it meant, Mr. Rodriguez – with the initial change of the two questions, the whole sequence of questions has disorganized me. So he apologizes to you. Now we'll make them missing and not touching at these moments but touching before. Therefore, we would now turn to the question, which is number 6, on the situation of justice, formulated for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. In this case, Mrs Esperança García has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.32.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Mrs. Capella. Miri, I'm sorry to interrupt your rough schedule. The question from our parliamentary subgroup is: how do you appreciate the situation of justice in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.33.0	To answer, the word has the counselor of Justicia, the lady Esther Capella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.34.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Mrs. Garcia, welcome. So, apart from being close to the Government of Catalonia, I appreciate it positively.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.35.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.36.0	Good. Well, Counselor, indeed, you simply, by answering what you have answered to this question, make it clear exactly that you are an absent counsel. He has not even the most remote idea of what the needs of justice are in Catalonia, it is more, even knowing only some, he completely ignores them. We already have a President who is on permanent strike, Mr Torra is a President-in-Office on permanent strike, and what we have is a Justice Adviser who is totally absent. And why am I telling you this? Mrs. Capella, you're very happy, aren't you? , to the legal community in Catalonia. You know that since October there have been various attacks on judicial offices throughout Catalonia by Mr CDRs. The last attack prompted precisely a statement from the Governing Chamber of the High Court of Justice asking you to take action against these repeated attacks on the judicial headquarters in Catalonia in a painted version, in a threatening version, in a spilled version of manure at the gates of the judicial headquarters. The High Court's own Governing Chamber said that you were doing nothing, moreover, accused her of not condemning it. And, indeed, it is that if you condemned him you did it clearly with a whisper. How can it be that, by establishing an operating system, Toga, there has not been a single arrest, when those judicial offices have external surveillance cameras? Look, Martorell's court staff had to leave Martorell's headquarters and close them because they dropped the roof on them just two weeks ago. What is your plan, apart from building and encouraging the construction of a judicial building in 2024? Because until 2024, what are these staff going to do? Look, I'm not surprised – I'm not surprised – that in the Supreme Court one of the questions is whether a Justice Advisor is a legal adviser to the Government of the Generalitat, because, of course, to manage justice in Catalonia, sincerely, nothing at all; any resemblance to reality is pure coincidence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.37.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word again you have the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.38.0	Mrs. Garcia, do you know how many times the president of the TSJ of Catalonia has called me to talk about women? None. Anyway, I'll whisper or say it louder and clearer. I don't like certain forms of protest – I don't like certain forms of protest – is that clear? So, I said so. And, therefore, I will tell you another thing: we act immediately. How many minutes were the women in front of the courts? Not two minutes. Therefore, before speaking apply 'you'– apply 'you'– and look well at what the Department of Justice does. And now I thought you'd ask me about the real situation of the Justice Administration, the one that affects judicial independence. Are you concerned about what a national hearing prosecutor – not any public prosecutor, a national hearing prosecutor – says, questioning the judges, judges and magistrates of the courts operating in Catalonia? [[Greetings.]] You don't have to worry. I do worry, because it questions the good work of many of the public workers in Catalonia. You are concerned about the public question that the Supreme Court has had with certain judicial resolutions such as the imposition of transmissions and documented legal acts or with the only clauses, which have thrown at you the ears of Europe, and has rectified an already dictated sentence – rectifying an already dictated sentence! –, positioning themselves 'upside the banks and the funded entities and not on the side of the citizens? That's what I'm worried about. You see that this doesn't concern you. Are you worried, for example, about Mr. Cosido's whatsapp saying that the Supreme Court would be controlled by the back door? Is that what you're worried about? They don't care. Are you concerned about the Organic Law of the Judiciary and the duration and mandate of the judiciary at a time when you are questioning yourself from the presidency to the last member, the result of a reform made by Mr. Ruiz Gallardón in which the ordinary activity is compatible as a lawyer or lawyer, or as a magistrate, controlling and therefore punishing judges and magistrates throughout the Spanish State? That's what you see they don't care about. So that's what we're worried about. And do you know what's going on? That we don't have competitions in this. We'd like to have them all, I've told you 25,000 times, all the competitions, because those who have to have the competitions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.39.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.40.0	...do not exercise them. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.41.0	The next question is about the state of some judicial facilities. [[Ask the Government about the state of some judicial facilities]] [[310-00111/12]] Asks the question, on behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar, Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.42.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. I will ask him about the real situation of the Administration of Justice; I will ask him about the state of its judges in Catalonia, because this also forms part of the Administration of Justice and is his competence. Counselor, last February 18th there was a detachment on one side of Martorell's subway that affected specifically number 1 and number 6; it affected work places, and fortunately there was no personal damage, but it was necessary to suspend the activity. This incident follows the different requirements of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia and the labour inspectorate, which clearly set out the bad conditions for the workers and workers, the legal operators and the justiciable. Counsel, what do you intend to do in your department to meet the demands that have been made, to solve the difficult problems that have occurred at Martorell's courts and ultimately to give a good public service of the Administration of Justice in this judicial party?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word has the counselor of Justicia, the lady Esther Capella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.44.0	So, honourable Member, we'll do exactly what we've been doing all these years. Listen, Martorell's jutjat... I have thirty years of exercise in the spatlles, and I'll tell you one thing: the first day I climbed Martorell's jutjats were already... they were worse than they are now. And it's true: there have been a few disenfranchisements as a result of us occupying the bottom of a building where we see it, and it turns out that there are some disenfranchisements that don't work. That's what happened to Martorell. But in any case, you know that there is the investment plan of your own department in which the construction of a new building is planned: more than five thousand meters squared, 8 million euros of investment and it will be finished in 2023.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.45.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.46.0	Thank you. It will advise, the most immediate actions to solve the effects of unanimities are only a piece of the situation in which they are found these jutjats. You said this: more than thirty years ago the situation is like this and the patience and the situation of the people who have to work and use it as public service is already over. The dispersion of yours and the general state of these fans that it is essential that the works for a definitive solution advance, cannot wait for a supposed beginning of works 2022 and a finished one, you have said it now, 2023, 2024. But, in fact, Martorell's case is one of many cases that we could set an example. On repeated occasions we have expressed to him the problems that due to lack of maintenance or the lack of construction of new buildings present many its judges. We could also give you Vic's example or Tarragona's example, where you disperse the buildings that fit your judges, the accessibility problems or the fact that they compete in the same passage the victims of male violence and the alleged aggressors leave much to be desired. In the case of Tarragona, we are told that a new building cannot be built so that the numbers do not quadrate, but while the Government of the Generality pays 1_million euros per year for the llogger of the jutjats, of the locals where the jutjats are located. They will advise, now, do a good maintenance of their judges, make the investments in the equipments that are necessary to guarantee the security, the salvation, the appropriate space to the workers and workers of the Administration of Justice and also to the citizenry that has to be in worthy conditions this service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.47.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, again, the word has the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.48.0	Mrs. Ibarra, I take it from your words that you will vote for the assumptions to do everything you ask me to do. [[Give me the applause.]] But in any case – in any case – the Government of Catalonia has had to self-finance fifty judicial bodies since the year 96. We're the only autonomous community that's ever done it to the lung. What do I mean when I say to the lung? It means that we, even though we haven't had enough funding, have done it. Fifty-six judicial organs. This represents more than 280_million euros– more than 280_million euros. He didn't go to another autonomous community. We will spend 40_million euros of investment in judicial buildings until 2025. I don't know if that sounds good enough. But I'll give him some more dice. The Spanish State recovers to Catalonia, by virtue of judicial taxes, 60_million euros annually. With a legal obligation that the State has, this should be destined for the better of the Administration of Justice – therefore, in new technologies – and free justice. Do you know how much Rep Catalunya? Zero – zero –; neither a ral of the pessetas d'avans nor a current euro cent. Miri, I'll tell you more. With €60_million– with €60_million– we would make a judicial building where all – all – the judicial organs of Tarragona every year– each year –; €60_million every year. I'll give you another one. One_third of court records from all over the state are in Catalonia. This generates interests that represent a fork of 100 to 130 million euros per year. Do you know how much Rep Catalunya for this generation of interests? Not a cent of euro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.49.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.50.0	Do you know how many court buildings we'd do? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.51.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about infrastructural investment]] [[310-00112/12]] The next question is about infrastructural investment. The formula of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. The question is asked by Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.52.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Counsellor, before you answer me, I am already moving forward: we also agree that we need to increase investments in rail – regional, regional, Mediterranean Corridor – and above all that the assumption is complete, right? But, said that, I want to ask him what opinion he deserves from the state's assumptions in terms of infrastructure for this year 2019.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.53.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.54.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Mr Terrades, the truth is that I did not get to negotiate with the Ministry of Development with regard to the assumptions; if you would comment, on the part of the minister and his secretary of state, some of the parties that we might consider interesting a priori. Some, for example, to fill in part of the State's infrastructural inversion deficit in Catalonia, specifically corresponding to the partial payment of the third additional provision – attention – of the year 2008– imagines that there are 759 million and 200 million of them; therefore, interestingly but insufficiently – and some other interesting item also to put at 2010 levels the State's contribution to the financing of public transport, interesting also again insufficiently for which the country's needs are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.55.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.56.0	Thank you. You know, counselor, that the assumptions that Pedro Sánchez presented and that you of the Spanish right arm fell were good for Catalonia: they meant a 19.2_percent of the real regionalizable investment of the Ministry of Development – and that it was destined for Catalonia – ; it went from 1,483_million euros to 2,435 euros, that is, a 64_percent more than the year 2018; Catalonia held the first position in the reversal ratio for communities – already touched us. Miri, there are 130 million users of regional and rolling stock, with data from the year 2018, and many times, mass, we complain quite rightly. The railway mode was the one that re-edited or increased it the most. It increased by 96_per_cent: from 703_million to 1,381_million euros. A few figures, counselor. To the Mediterranean Corridor, EUR 368 million. At the roundabout, EUR 651 million– with the pro-presuppositionary extension of this reverse rate will be reduced to half–; 97 million in rolling stock to improve trains; the implementation of the European rail traffic management system, i.e., more securely rolling; the urbanisation project, for example, from the Europe Square to Girona, or urban integration – underground lifes – to the Hospitallet de Llobregat, to Sant Feliu or to Montcada and Reixac; or the improvement in stations such as Mollet - Santa Rosa, Montcada, Manresa, the Arc de Triomf, Sant Celoni, Vilasar, Molins de Rei, Terrassa, Sabadell Centre, Portbou ; or the estudi de l'estrada de la rÃrôle, or the crossing of the railway line to the railway line; Counselor, how do you think we should act so we don't delay these investments? Because now, as a result of this negative vote, you are also part of the problem. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.57.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, again, the word has the counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.58.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Member, the assumption put forward by the Government of the State, from the political parties that we give recollection to the Government of the Generality, we considered that, in principle and in the end, it was obviously subject to the political negotiation that had taken place after the end of the first minute of this legislature. In the words of President Torra, who also had words from President Atutxa, we are screwed – I'm sorry for the expression – to the table of the dialog, not to the table of the approval of the assumptions. And in this dialog there was a political solution, to put political solutions to the current political context of the relationship between Catalonia and Spain, which goes unequivocally through a recognition to the right to decide, to the right to self-determination. Therefore, the first is the first and second, in any case, is to get into the subject of assumptions. And under the circumstances, do you know what's going on? Let's have some heat. Because the promises can be many, the list we know perfectly, we know the country as much as you do, but between what is supposed and what liquidates them, that this is a phonenal difference, knows that there is a trap; the trap that always and repeatedly the Government of the State, that leaves us without real investments in everything that they promised. Therefore, I insist that the promises of our assumptions do not create mass. In any case, in the rolling stock, there are, for example, promises of 4,000_million euros, in the rolling stock, in improving the infrastructures, which allow a better service, but, in change, of these 4,000_million euros that have been promised and that they should have materialized, we have practically no...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.59.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.60.0	...not a penny... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.61.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the model of provision of outpatient and home rehabilitation services]] [[310-00119/12]] The next question is about the model of provision of outpatient and home rehabilitation services, formulated for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. The question is posed by Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.62.0	Thank you, President. Counselrera, a year ago, news in El País : the student responsible for the Català de la Salut Service announced the termination of a millionaire contract of the company that manages the home rehabilitation service and logo in the districts of Nou Barris and Sant Andreu, Barcelona. The thing came from a long way: incompliments proven by the conditions of the contract of this company, sanctions of social security and inspection of work for work fraud, proposals of the plenary of these two districts of Barcelona, thousands of signatures collected for the White Sea and for SAP Muntanya, in these cases demanding the withdrawal of this service and complaining of the bad service offered by this company. And finally, after two years of all these political, trade union and user complaints and claims, one year ago his department decided that this contract was terminated and, moreover, that the direct public management of this service was recovered. If today the country has to do the owner again, it would be 'health is broken, because they have not only not terminated this contract, but have renewed the contract to this same company, inexplicably and without any public announcement on this occasion. When does the government think about reversing this outrageous and unjustified outsourcing to a company that is not fulfilling the contract, that is doing badly, and that is even failing to comply with labour regulations?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.63.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the words of the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.64.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the Council's intervention have not been recorded. Pause.]] Thank you, President – now yes. Mrs Ribas, therefore, I agree, and I see the news, and I share the news, and I share her sentiment, because rehabilitation has never been free from controversy, from complaints, from social security..., from inspections, from the Health Department. And so it is true that since the Health Department we have taken all the legal steps, all absolutely, including this, including making the proposal to terminate the contract and all those legal steps also intervened the Legal Commission, which, in the end, said that it was not possible to terminate the contract and that these companies, moreover, are winning the courts the contradictions they pose. So, if you're telling me if I'm satisfied with the rehabilitation model that we have at this time and as we contract rehabilitation, I have to tell you that not the first one I tell you is that, first of all, we need to figure out which rehabilitation model we want and, then, not later, know how we contract or how we want to provide this service.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.65.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.66.0	He will advise, these reports – certainly not public – perhaps talk to him about the rescission, but you have not even opted for the non-renewal that you could have at the end of the year, there you have renewed this company. Miri, for our group, it is not only a time to reverse all the economic details that we still suffer from the public health system in Catalonia, but also to reverse the privatisations that have taken advantage of to make these last years in our system and to start to route a new plant of clear, transparent and spaceless health model for neither corruption nor for the enrichment of goods like this from our rights. This is a clear example, counsel, of a service that can be deprived and that, to all intents and purposes, you considered that there can be and that there are conditions to do so. I could ask you for courage, but it's not like that, I'm just asking you to complete the law, to give the contract to a company that is incomplete, and to apply the Catalonia Health Order Act, which says it's a priority. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , preference for direct public management...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.67.0	Congresswoman, time's up. [[Greetings.]] To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.68.0	All right, Congresswoman, because I think we'll find ourselves in this rethinking of the model of attention. We are rethinking this model of attention, which derives, precisely, from the National Strategy of Primary Care and Community Health, which makes it possible to take into account all that are problems of salvation from the future and from the future, as the aging grows, as the need to place in the center the autonomy of the person, with a good mobility, a better quality of life, old for proximity and, above all, we must guarantee a model that is integral from the care of the person, that rehabilitation does not follow that bulletin that is contracted and outsourced. Integrating it into the care services that we provide, with quality, accessibility, both in time of hope and nearness, and obviously, with the results to reduce this variability in the attention we have, because it is certain that the primary attention that is being given is: we want the model of care for rehabilitation in the home and that we have, for example, the CAP 11 of September, of Lleida, which already incorporates a territorial rehabilitation service in the same CAP and, therefore, also we have said, in the guarantee plan of employment status that we approved the last legislature, we already included more than one hundred public physiotherapists from the work establishment and from the health contract that we would do. So, if you want to work on this, we'll find each other...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.69.0	Counselor, time is running out. Thank you very much. [[Ask the Government about minority diseases]] [[310-00113/12]] The next question is about minority malalities. The question is raised, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà, by Mrs Noemi Llauradó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.70.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Consellera Vergés. Tomorrow is World Day of Minority Malalties, so today we are joined by associations of people affected and family members for these malalties, to which, therefore, I want to thank the pocket they are carrying out. The goal of this world day, as you know, is to give knowledge of these diseases and also to position them as a social and care priority. This is why, since the Republican Group, this week we have had some final actions, such as the question we ask the Councillor today, we have also presented an PR before the Health Commission, together with Junts' partners for Catalonia, and we have joined the World Day manifesto. Also, from Esquerra Republicana, in Madrid, to the Congress of Deputies, we have recorded a battery of questions, destined, therefore, to the Minister of Health, and a proposal not of law to improve access to the European networks of reference and to the better of the attention of the people affected. And we have to do these actions in Madrid, because, in order to access the European referral networks in minority diseases, created by the European Commission, with the aim of uniting efforts and sharing all this knowledge with the best specialists in Europe, the Ministry of Health, in addition to requiring European quality and expert requirements, also requires endorsement of the requests for participation by means of a designation of centres, services and reference units, which is emerging as a col d'ampolla and which has left out many Catalan centres of excellence and professional references internationally recognized in this area. Therefore, counsel, my question is: What is being done from the department to deal with this situation, what does it do to access and ensure a good quality of care for the affected population? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.71.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, you have the words of the greeting counselor, Mrs Vergés. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.72.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. And I give the welcome to Parliament, and I greet, to all the entities of minority malalties, who had also greeted us from there the rostrum. Indeed, Catalonia is one of the only regions in Europe that has a model of care for these minority ills with a double view, the great expert needs, obviously, but also the daily attention to these patients and their families; we do not forget about their families. We are absolutely aligned with the models of the European Union and, therefore, based on the creation of these European reference networks and Catalonia forms part of seventeen of the twenty-four European networks and we have eight of our centres which are pioneers and represent us as a country at European level. This European model, for this reason, we also brought it home, with our units of clinical expertise, which allow us to share this knowledge and good practices, which allow us to cope with the most complex medical conditions, which hold these diseases, badly, and which we bet for people-centred attention, which takes into account patients and families. You thought we were talking about 350,000 Catalans and Catalans suffering from a minority malalty. In today's minority diseases because they are rare, but in reality, there are a lot of people affected in our country, few in each of them, but they are more than 7,000 diseases difficult to diagnose. Therefore, we are working from the Health Department, with the Malaysian Minority Commission, which is a joint work with professional clinical experts and patient associations.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.73.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.74.0	Thank you, Counselor. Indeed, people affected by this type of disease in Catalonia are more than 350,000. In 1990 the European Commission recognised minority diseases as a priority for intervention in public health. I wanted to ask you what actions the department has planned in this area, in view of the period 2019-2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.75.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.76.0	Thank you, President. So, in view of the 19-20, this 2019 we are already beginning to expand the deployment of Clinical Experience Unit Xarxes to other pathologies, such as neuromusculars or the group of acquired immunodeficiencies. We've got three of them, right now, and we're gonna have five of them. We will also study the child's needs for care with this heavy multi-disability, because this is obviously a great need. To improve the work in the network of these XUECs, with the assistance devices of the territory to lie down where are the patients and the families; to develop awareness campaigns and, from here, we give thanks to La Marató, TV3, also, that this year will be destined for minority ills; it was already on one occasion and was able to collect a lot of money and follow...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.77.0	Counselor, time is running out. [[Greetings.]] Thank you very much. Let us now turn to the questions of the President of the Generality. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the actions of the Government to guarantee a minimum wage of 1,200 euros per month]] [[317-00064/12]] The first question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.78.0	Good morning, all of you. President, on the past or recent 21st of February, you said the past, we held a general call for vagaries in Catalonia. In the notice of this call they had different pretensions, but we can focus these on four essentials: a first, the repeal of labor counter-reforms; a second, guarantee gender equality in the world of work; a third, also guarantee public financing sufficient for public services and a fourth, which refers to the minimum wage of 1.200_euro. For what it does to those activities that are privately managed, but they are publicly owned, the fact that, today, we still don't have this salary guaranteed for workers and workers only and exclusively from their government. Unfortunately, there are some of his advisers who think that this can be done equally for what he does to the assemblies and to the Generalitat, when it is simply and only a decision of the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia that can transform this reality. The question that we ask you is very concrete: President, will you still maintain that the workers and the workers who carry out the activities of ownership of the Government of Catalonia run by private companies do not guarantee this salary of 1,200 euros per month or will make political decisions and a very legal concrete because this is a reality the present year?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.79.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.80.0	Yeah. Good morning. I also, in the first place, allow me to greet all entities of minority malalities. Many thanks, all the support of the government. We have joined each other, so also to the manifesto of the world day, tomorrow. Mr. Congressman, we want to set up this minimum reference wage, huh? , go ahead, and develop your question and I answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.81.0	Thank you, President. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.82.0	Mr President, strangely enough, a question can be asked when it is absolutely concrete and why the answer can be made exactly, whether it is done or not. But this parliamentary subgroup, which is also intended to serve the public, is trying to give many more explanations than we are asking for, which is very simple, because the workers and workers who act as holders of the Generalitat de Catalunya can have a guaranteed salary of EUR 1,200, their government has to make a decision and we insist, also serves for the joints; the joints cannot do so if their government does not make a decision. And you who, now, on these dates will make a year that we have already asked for in the investiture process, can do it, can do it, already. So the question, we have expanded it, we have come back to it in a very flat and very simple way: "The government will maintain a reality for which the workers do not have or guarantee a minimum wage of 1.200 euros or will be valid, it will be social justice, it will be fair and it will make this decision, which means that there are no workers and workers carrying public ownership activities with private management that do not have a remuneration of 1.200 euros?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.83.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the president has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.84.0	The honourable Member, as he said before, we would try to establish, through a contract of trade union status or collective bargaining, that is, precisely, therefore, this minimum wage. I think it will take us a long time to have the opportunity, in the discussion on the elaboration of the assumptions, precisely to get into concrete and detail not only in this apartment, but in the whole of this government's proposal at the time of presenting what we continue to claim to be the most social assumptions that have ever been put forward by other governments. Miri... And we'll start by talking about how we've closed the exercise, the exercise 2018, that we've closed it well, that we're growing up, that we've got a few bits of hardwood per 11.7_per_cent of hardwood and that means that for the first time, we're in hardwood taxes at the height of the pre-crisis, therefore, of the year 2008 and that our prospects are to drop by 10_per_cent in the closure of the 2019 exercise. Therefore, this situation, if you will, is always better, obviously it is, but of a certain welfare in the country, we must be able, precisely, to redistribute it and to get it to the people who need it the most. And these assumptions that we're discussing this late go, precisely, from this, how we can make this distribution of this welfare. And what you're asking us is, exactly, one of the points that we can discuss this late. I think it is very important and, for this reason, we offer all parliamentary groups the opportunity to discuss how, at this moment, the Catalan economy is doing well, we are able, for the first time, to distribute this welfare at the conjunction of the people. And it is clear that yes, what you propose must be one of the points we need to discuss and we need to discuss all the folds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.85.0	Thank you, President. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the concern about the composition of the Government of the State after the general elections]] [[317-00067/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Ms.Jéssica Albiach. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.86.0	Yeah. Thank you, President. Good morning, all of you. President, we would like to know if Governor Torra-Aragonès is concerned about what the Government of Spain can do if it comes out of the ballot box, April 28, or if it is indifferent to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.87.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.88.0	Madam Member, we are more concerned about what this future government will do, if it will be able to face the challenge that this country has, which is the right to self-determination in Catalonia, than not who it will be.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.89.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.90.0	Yes, President. We asked him this question, because depending on his answer, we might know what is waiting for him in Catalonia, beyond grandiose statements, which is what you are accustomed to, because we are in a historic moment, and what we are playing is moving forward in rights and freedoms or back in dark time that we do not want to see or paint. And if anyone thinks that Catalonia will be able to advance without more democracy in Spain, they are wrong. And, therefore, a democratic revolution in the State, from feminism, from the struggle against climate change, from the struggle against the judicialization of politics and the politicization of justice and, above all, also with fraternity among the peoples, is essential. There are more than 50_percent of Spanish and Spanish who want to dial. And in this situation we are the only guarantee of change, and the more we see that Mr. Pedro Sánchez has given up the right to decide, he gave support to 155, he has had you with a judgment that would not be produced, and we also know that it has been difficult for him to set up a project of country that ended with austerity, because if that agreement of assumptions had social improvements, we would have given them away. And we're also used to seeing a PSC that often seems more like a Ferraz branch. [[Widow's remorse.]] But, president, we'd like to know, you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.91.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.92.0	...as independent parties what they are planting, because many times it seems that you are trapped in the logic of when worse, better, in party competition and improvisation. We already told them at their time and more than once: to drop those assumptions, that agreement of assumptions, it was also to dynamite the dialog bridges. And I ask him: what more does he give that Mr. Pedro Sánchez doesn't want to approve those assumptions, because it was the intuition that we all had, because he either takes it or reddens it, or ends up in Ciutadans' arms, because the lack of courage. And now the PSOE is where they wanted to be, that it was breaking the dialog with the independent parties and without the obligation to approve and to pull through the most social measures that had those assumptions. I'm done. President, in a scene of essential alliances, or we participate in a democratic front in Catalonia, but also, I insist, too, in Spain, and here you are needed to water the Socialist Party, or we will return in dark time that we do not want to see either in painting, with an even harder retreat of national rights, political, civil and for women. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.93.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.94.0	Yes, honourable Member. I don't know if that question was mass adient in this hemisphere. This is the Parliament of Catalonia; in principle, we deal with the issues of Catalonia, but I have no problem answering it, because I liked it all, I liked it all. [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] Yes, yes, I liked it especially when you referred to the Socialist Group and Mr. Pedro Sánchez; it seemed interesting to me, go.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.95.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.96.0	Effectively. Miri, right to self-determination. It is that, forgive me, between the right-wing tripartite party or the Socialist Party, which instead of looking at the 21st century looks at the past century, looks at Felipe González, Alfonso Guerra and Josep Borrell, our three-member independence. [[Greetings.]] It's just that we're sorting independence. So you're not going to tell us where we are now. We go to the Spanish Congress to defend what we have always defended, the twenty-and-one points of Pedralbes, which are three great blocks, and which do not only refer to the right to the self-determination of Catalonia. U, defeat. Listen, after all these months, General Franco del Valle de los Fallos did not succeed. It's god-in-law, huh? Deu-n'hi-do. No promises that the Socialist Party has made to us have come, no, it has come to fruition, not one. Two, democratic regeneration and, therefore, political ethics, separation of powers. It's inconceivable what we're seeing, it's inconceivable what we're seeing in the Supreme Court. Is it that I assure you that I have attended three days there..., there is someone in this country, there is someone in this country who can live another day in the country that defends the state's attorney and attorney, in a country where our rights are practically eliminated, all of which is suspected, all of which is suspected of anything? I honestly don't want to live in that country. And, in turn, I think that defeat, political ethics and, obviously, right to self-determination, this is the program that I think any independentist should go to the Madrid Congress to defend. And here we are very clean, and here we are very clean with you, because it seems to me that on these great blocks we find ourselves there. But right to self-determination is not allowed to self-determination. This is a very substantial change. There is not enough to say: "We are in favour of the right to self-determination in Catalonia. No, no, Like exercise, this right to self-determination?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.97.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.98.0	That's the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.99.0	The next question is about the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the state and presentation of the Generality Presumption Bill for 2019]] [[317-00063/12]] The formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Miquel Iceta. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.100.0	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Mr President of the Generality, when do you intend to present to Parliament the Project of Presumptions for 2019, so that it can be debated and voted for the chamber?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.101.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.102.0	Yes, Mr. Congressman. As you know, this late we have a discussion about the point at which the preliminary draft of assumptions is drawn up. Here we will have the opportunity to discuss peacefully with all the parliamentary groups who think that this project deserves, this work that has been done from the Department of Economy, and we will see what would be the will of this chamber, to see at what points we can agree. It seems that on the part of the commons, or at least they do it in public statements, so, another time, they open up to return to their sister and to negotiate. It seems to me that for a matter of responsibility, transparency and stability in the country, at the times when Catalonia has lived, it seems to me that it is the best that this country can now afford.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.103.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.104.0	My question was simple, but the answer seems to me to be no. Look, your government didn't approve of a presupposition project, they stuck it on the web, that's right. A virtual government and virtual assumptions correspond to the virtual republic. But I ask him because of the real premise, because of the assumption that the government approves and that he enters Parliament because he can be debated and voted on. And, therefore, my unanswered Roman question. But the figures cannot be virtual, because the problems of the people of Catalonia are not virtual: there are waiting lists; there are school booths; there is a parliamentary commitment to lower university fees; there are commitments made with public workers, with the meths and professionals of the ICS, those of concerted sanitation; there are commitments to finance schools, and these are problems that can't wait. Since 2010, you have never presented the assumptions in time and form, thus detaching one of your basic institutional obligations. And his government is no exception, probably because they want to tell us again that it will be the last autonomic assumption, which has never been fulfilled. But I ask them: why haven't they approved it yet, the government? What is it that you don't believe the figures that are penetrating the web, or that there are differences between you? I'm sorry I speculated, but some reason must have been there. It is not certain that the assumptions cannot be presented if there are no guarantees that they will be approved. Explain to President Pedro Sánchez or, without going any further, to President Puigdemont and Vice President Junqueras, who saw how the Parliament rejected the projects respecting assumptions. Of course, if the assumptions are rejected, or to call elections, as did President Sánchez, or to present a question of confidence, as did President Puigdemont. But there is a pre-eminent and substantive question: to present the draft assumptions to the chamber. This is his institutional obligation. I ask you not to further discredit our institutions of self-government. Do me a favor and rule. Please submit to Parliament the draft assumptions. Make no input forecast and a expenditure forecast. Tell us who are the priorities of public policies that the Government intends to develop. And if you don't plan to rule, I'll run, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.105.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.106.0	Well, I insist, this late we will have occasion, therefore, to debate what is the state in which we present to the people of Catalonia our draft assumptions. We will not make a Pedro Sánchez, we will not make a Pedro Sánchez, to present a project of assumptions without having talked to anyone, because we did not have any occasion to be able to discuss with the president of the Spanish Government nor with its ministers who were the parties of assumptions, nor a meeting, zero. It's more, they ended up subduing that elaboration of assumptions to a chant because we, exact, approve the assumption, huh? , in order to be able to pull the Catalonian dialect forward, when we have never put the Catalonian dialect..., we have never held it to any condition, nor to any chanting, in absolute – in absolute. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.107.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.108.0	In the current situation that Catalonia sees, we pose for the world all the instability, and responsibility – and responsibility –, and if you believe... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Iceta, and that is why we continue to rule, and we continue to rule every day. If you believe that this government does not govern and we are not doing business, you have another possibility, that it is with its members of 155, with whom they usually vote, so all the resolutions of this Parliament..., yes, yes, yes, with its members who voted for Article 155, and with whom they may also want to vote for the pro 155, they present a motion of censure, present 'you, as a candidate for President of the Generality, and tell Mrs. Arrimadas and tell the mayor of the PP that the vote, if you believe that this government is not ruling. We will continue to rule – we will continue to rule – now, with stability...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.109.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.110.0	...with responsibility and... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.111.0	The following question is asked by the Groupe Parlamentari Republicà. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the inviolability and sovereignty of parliamentarians to bring political prisoners to justice in the Supreme Court and, in particular, in relation to the case of President Carme Forcadell]] [[317-00065/12]] Sir Sergi Sabrià has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.112.0	Thank you very much, President. Benvolgut president, today I will ask you a question or perhaps more quickly a reflection, as the highest authority in Catalonia, but also, and especially, as the deputy of this chamber. We are living these days a terrible farce to the Supreme Court, a farce that attempts against the fundamental rights, a case that wants to end political dissent, a general case against Catalan independence. They want to make us disappear, but we have given them the best of the answers. Those to whom they wanted to surrender, those to whom they had prisoners, to whom they wanted to do so, to whom they separated from their families, have returned more straight and firm than ever before, determined and convinced to continue defending the republican values, all from the first to the last. Every day we felt ashamed and angry when they asked them about tweets, and proud when they had returned talking about rights and democracy. They question them about their principles and believe and do not do so about the facts of which they'sacuse, because they have no way to sustain it. And in all this nonsense there is a figure who today suffers from justice and imprisonment to preserve this institution first of all, President Forcadell, who preserved our rights before the threats, who guaranteed them when she allowed us to exercise them. This judgment is the second finding that the fundamental rights are dangerous in the context of the Spanish State. The President of Parliament is accused of rebelling to allow a parliamentary debate, to defend that Parliament must be able to talk about everything. In the democratic parliament of the world the debate is censored in a preventive way, because it goes against the very essence of democracy. And don't tell us. The same John Bercow, president of the House of Commons, claimed that he would have accepted a debate on the secession from the Kingdom Unit. We've seen parliamentarians arresting the world asking for the freedom of Carmel. As simple as the essence of democracy is that the word must be free. Parliament's censorship of debates and parliamentary activity puts democracy and the essence of parliamentarianism at risk, and Carmel played it all to defend it, and now we can't fail it. Today, President, more than not a question, I ask you to conjure us, to conjure us all. In a normal situation it should be all the deputies and presidents, with the presidents in the lead, but we conjure ourselves to follow the path marked for Carme Forcadell, which we conjure ourselves to defend this chamber, which we conjure ourselves to defend parliamentary inviolability. And today that's said...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.113.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.114.0	...the Catalan Republic. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.115.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.116.0	Thank you, Congressman. Thank you for those words, which are the words that any parliamentarians of any parliament in the world should subscribe to. Thank you to the Parliament of Catalonia for being in the sessions of the judiciary. Thank you to all the groups in the chamber that you went to court. Thanks to the group of communes, thanks to the Esquerra Group, thanks to the Group of Junts for Catalonia, thanks to the presidents and vice-presidents for going there. And, frankly, at the CUP, thank you, company, thank you for being there, too. And, frankly, to the groups that have not gone to court, parliamentarians, that are judging the President of Parliament, your companions, you should be ashamed of not being there, not giving support to your companions, listening to them, listening to them... [[Greetings.]] To listen to them, to listen to their defense, to listen as they were defending the sovereignty of Parliament, the inviolability of political expression, of free ideas. That's what's defending itself in that parliament. Why don't you go one day? You have seven, go-there, go listen to your company, go listen to President Forcadell. Go there. I'm asking you, really. Do yourself this favor of the ideas of freedom that you also represented. That Socialist Party that represented so much, that it was on the side of rights and freedoms, all rights and freedoms. In a parliament it's all about everything. And that's what Carme Forcadell defended yesterday. He defended the sovereignty of Parliament, he defended the inviolability of each of us, while we are here and we defend our ideas, which follow; our ideas. And he defended the rights of opinion and political participation. And something even more extraordinary happened, because before Carme Forcadell spoke to our friend and companion, Jordi Cuixart, and made a historical attachment – a historical attachment. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mrs. Arrimadas, a historical attachment [[applause]] on civil disobedience and non-violence. And no more 'nrigated; no more 'nrigated, of the Jordi Cuixart. You don't have the right to laugh at Jordi Cuixart. [[Greetings. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] So he doesn't get angry with me, he's not angry with the people. Don't go to Waterloo to do another one of his performances and his performances. For God's sake! You do politics, I told you. But, in fact, it seems impossible. Let's go back to this, back to defending Parliament's inviolability and my defense. The truth is, yesterday was a very exciting day. I ask all the parliamentary and parliamentary partners of this chamber who continue to be there, who continue to support our political representatives. It's an extraordinary act of dignity that we'll always remember. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.117.0	The next question is about the latest political developments. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the economic, social and product impact of the 2019 Mobile World Congress]] [[317-00066/12]] And the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Gemma Geis. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.118.0	Well, good morning. President Torra, advisors, advisors, deputies, deputies, this diluns held the opening of the tretzenth edition of the Mobile World Congress, a congress that has always counted on the support of the Government of Catalonia for its undisputed strategic importance, i.e. the slogan « Catalonia, land of digital revolutionaries. And, yes, digital revolutionaries, because Catalonia likes revolutions, revolutions as well as transformation, social progress. A technological revolution in the service of people, society, a sustainable country, of the better quality of life of citizens in the exercise of rights and freedoms. Beyond the shocking images we are accustomed to – of macro-standards, folding furniture, the advent of 5G technology, this year with an ambulance, for example – the convention focuses on intelligent competitiveness and presents us with Barcelona as the capital of Catalonia, a capital that leads technological innovation, with a city and a country that is open to the world, open to the digital revolution. A congress of digital revolutionaries that inspires and attracts first-level technological enterprises, which generate new opportunities for Catalan companies, strengthens the Catalan technological fabric, presenting us products, seeking complicity, in short, to grow the Catalan economy from talent and innovation. Excellence in innovation means having a powerful and diversified industry, a local fabric very specialized in ICT, with more than fifteen thousand entrepreneurs and more than one hundred thousand dedicated workers. Thus, the Financial Times has recognized Catalonia and its people as the best region to invest in 2018 and 2019. For all this, President, we want to know what his understanding is about the economic, social and product structure of the Mobile World Congress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.119.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.120.0	Yes, thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Actually, Mobile is celebrating these days, still today and a couple more days. It is time to have a balance on, therefore, what this economic and social impact of Mobile will be, and surely soon we will be in a position to offer it; but knowing that more than a hundred_ thousand professionals are expected, 2,400 exhibitors of two hundred countries already gives a small approximation to what is this event that Barcelona converts into the capital of the world during the four days that it is celebrated. And we'd have to ask each other all the questions: what's the point? Why is he going to Barcelona, exactly? Why do we have a magnificent climate, an excellent geographic position? No, it goes through the constant bet for the international opening that has taken place since this country, for the talent, for the innovation, because Barcelona is already considered the fourth technological city of the world. Therefore, this excellence of innovation..., which gives me the other day: "There are already more people working in the ICT sector than in the automotive sector in Catalonia. So, at these moments, we find that, actually... and maybe it's a sector that doesn't make a lot of noise, but that creates work places and work places and work places. And so we're interested that these fifteen thousand entrepreneurs and already more than a hundred thousand workers are doing very well. And they're very well vagrant, too, if we're lucky that this binocular of tech companies, research centers, and universities... I'm sorry, this triangle, so we can make it play, right? The result, indeed – also your god – is that Siemens, Amazon, Microsoft, HP, are some of the most eight thousand multinationals that have already established themselves in Catalonia and that, as you remember, the Financial Times continues to say that we are the southern part of Europe, the southern region of Europe with the greatest investment attraction, right? It reminds me enough of what Catalonia was able to do in the 19th century: a territory without first materials, able to lead the industrial revolution, then, throughout the State. I think we must now be able to lead the digital revolution in this 21st century as well. And the government, as you know, yesterday approved, therefore, its policy of the 5G, the Mediterranean corridor of the 5G cap to Occitania. I think it's the steps that need to be taken and, yes, I have the conviction that this Mobile is going to be the best Mobile ever and a great success for the country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.121.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the General Council on the problem arising from the measures taken by the Government in relation to the sector of passenger transport vehicles]] [[317-00062/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the honourable Member Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.122.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Torra, yesterday we met the opinion of the Board of State Guarantees on the Government Decree Law on VTCs. The council clearly warns of the unconstitutionality of key precepts of the decree. My question is: do you intend to correct that? Or do they want to approve it knowingly of its unconstitutionality and of all the problems that this will create? And for starters, Mr Torra, have you read that opinion?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.123.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.124.0	Yes, thank you. Yes, I read it, Mrs. Arrimadas. And it's all the opposite of what you're saying; it's a fully constitutional decree that's only at a point – only at a point – says it might not be.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.125.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.126.0	So it's a unconstitutional decree. What you are doing with mobility is a misconception. Undoubtedly the origin of the problem – that I recognize – is the Government of Spain, which passed the hot potato of the VTCs to the autonomous communities. But it is that you and the populism of Colau have made it worse, because it is not only the Conseil de Garanties Statutàries that says it: the Catalan Competition Agency – which I do not know if you know or if there is that – has said in a report that its decree affects Catalan users, violates basic principles of competition and harms – eye, that this week is important to know – technological innovation. In addition, the National Commission on Markets and Competition has also said this. Who else needs to be warned? This week, in addition, the Mobile is celebrated. You, on that card you've been written, have forgotten your advisors to name a little detail. This week, more than a hundred thousand people will come, and they will see that Barcelona is the only big city in the world where they can't use mobility platforms on their mobile; what a paradox! - What a paradox! –; serious transport problems too, which you have not commented on and which I suppose will give them the same. But it is that you have provoked EREs of hundreds of people, many of them over fifty years old. Does this concern you, Mr. Torra? And besides, do you know what's going to happen? That, according to all these reports and seeing what they put in, we will surely end up paying all the Catalans serious compensation for their legal expenses, as has happened with ATLL. Look, the conflict between VTCs and taxis requires a serious solution: national regulation, fair and fair competition – which does not happen now, indeed – and choice of users. You are in time to rectify, and you have many warnings. Then do not come saying that they did not know what they were doing; they have many warnings of what they are doing. Because legal hedges, knowing that they are hedges and that they are badly done, not only end up generating many compensations that we all have to pay, such as ATLL, but sometimes generating enormous political responsibilities. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.127.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.128.0	I mean, I agree that we have to find and get all of us to work on finding a joint solution, seriously, in which we address the whole problem of the mobility sector; I agree. So, let's get to work, this law that the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability knows that he has undertaken to process, where we have this social concertation not only the political parties, but also with all the social agents involved here; and this knows that it is one of the government's commitments. But this government did something very important, too. This government knew of the importance of Mobile for Catalonia, of the economic impact it has on all levels, and therefore, when the taxi ride was set up, and also vague, shutting down the VTCs, from the very first moment onward – and it seems to me that twenty-four hours on twenty-four, counsel – we were trying to find a solution – we were trying to find a solution – a solution for which, in fact, we were also counting on the support of the commons, of the Mayor of Barcelona. And we seem to know how to find her, how we always try to find all the solutions to all the problems we have. And that solution was a satisfactory solution, which seemed acceptable to the country as a whole. But I agree: let's get to work on the real solution that we put in place is a solution for the whole sector and, therefore, let's see all the hypotheses that we have on the table, let's get to it, let's get to it, let's get to it, let's get back to the taxi sector, let's talk to the VTC sector again and, therefore, let's find, among all of us, the solution to a problem of mobility. But we can't put the success of Mobile into play, and we talking to everyone, talking to all sectors, we've found the solution that best suits us at these times. But this government's will is to continue working to find a comprehensive solution to all these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.129.0	Thank you, President. [[Designation of MPs for the 2019 budgetary period]] [[231-00002/12]] After the control session, let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which in this case is the appointment of the interveners for the budgetary period of 2019. The Enlarged Bureau, as established in Article 37.5 of the Rules of Procedure, has granted the Ple the designation of Mr. Antonio Espinosa Cerrato, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans ; Mr. Narcis Clara Lloret, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, and Mr. Marc Sanglas and Alcantarilla, of the Parliamentary Group Republicà, as well as MPs interveners for the fiscal period of 2019. Is it possible to consider this proposal from the enlarged Bureau approved by agreement? Yeah? [[Pause.]] [[Cumulative resolution proposals concerning the creation of a commission of inquiry on the award of the water supply service at Ter-Llobregat]] [[252-00014/12 and 252-00015/12]] So let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, a date appointed by the interveners' deputies, which is the new item on the order of the day, and it is concretely the debate and vote of the Motion for a resolution creating a commission of inquiry on the award of the water supply service at Ter-Llobregat. Before starting the question, it is clear that this motion for a resolution has been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans; it will be discussed together with the motion for a resolution which appears on the next item on the agenda, which bears the same title of processing, presented in this case by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans and the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. Therefore, by presenting these two initiatives that are on the same theme, we will make a single debate with a single turn of two minutes for each parliamentary group and five minutes for the subgroup. Therefore, and in the first place, you have the word as a parliamentary group proposing, in the case of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Marina Bravo. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.130.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillors, from Citizens we want to push a committee of inquiry into ATLL in this Parliament ; we had already announced it, and today we will vote here. It has always seemed necessary to us that the Government should give explanations, but it is that the magnitude of this plague, the opacity that surrounds it and the contradictions that the members of the Government enter every time they talk about it and, above all, the money that can cost us all Catalans make this commission of inquiry absolutely essential. By summarizing the problem in some way, because we have already talked a lot about it, the case of ATLL, or the chapuza of ATLL, has been a total misconception of the nationalist government of Artur Mas, which has endeavoured to carry out, against wind and tide and against all the warnings of the control agencies and after the courts, this barbarity, a misconception full of shadows that was carried out with the sole objective of closing quickly and running the shames of its mismanagement, with the sole objective of closing a huge hole that this same Government had created in its accounts and that reached the limit of having no provisions to pay the payrolls of the end of 2012, as the same executive acknowledged. In short, ATLL was an enormous irresponsibility to cover up another shameful irresponsibility: that of mismanagement. Because the political origin of this chapuza was no other than the hole in the accounts of that government of Arthur Mas. No one was ashamed, on top of it, to recognize that excuse, as if covering the hole in the accounts exculpated any responsibility for this disastrous decision. And no, look, the need to square the accounts does not excuse, but rather quite the contrary, to begin with, because the hole, precisely because it did not fall from the sky, was caused by the mismanagement of that government and of all the previous ones. Because just three years before, for example, it was decided, in the midst of a crisis, to play airplanes and put 200_millions of public money in a company like Spanair, because I tell you that it did not help. Or that the cost of line 9 for that year, for 2012, would have already multiplied by three, which represented 4,000_million extra costs, because it also did not help us not to have that hole, not 3 percent, nor the capitalism of friends. Out of all this mismanagement came the hole in the accounts that was meant to cover with ATLL, did not fall from the sky, and that was the political origin of a decision that functionally, practically, seriously, or technically had no other justification. It was not the decision of a government that, with responsibility, wanted to look for the best way to manage or administer or improve a public service such as water, it was a political decision, which also took place against any warning and recommendation, and risking hundreds of millions of our pockets. And if the decision was bad enough, what was genuine irresponsibility was not to abandon it when all the control bodies recommended it, and when the first sentences already forced it, to reverse it. And it shows how serious that irresponsibility was is that ATLL's cap has ended with an already firm court ruling, which is now firm, which obliges, nothing less, than to reverse a forty-and-four-year concession before the contractual commitment that had been reached with the company. How is this not going to cost the Catalans? How is such a decision not going to be expensive? Without going further, and without even entering the war of numbers, we have already told you many times that declarations of independence or their lack of respect for the laws and legal security do much harm to Catalonia. And cases like this, like ATLL's, where a company has to withdraw a forty-and-four-year concession before the engagement, or that of the VTCs that we'll see tomorrow, as it also gives a terrible image that really makes it very difficult for companies that want to invest in this land. And that is a cost to society that can be even greater than any compensation it has to pay. And someone will have to take responsibility. And it's not just that bad reputation, which is very serious, that it's also going to cost hundreds of millions of euros from Catalan pockets to return to the 2012 situation. Councillor Damià Calvet already acknowledged, after we had the data of the final judgment, which was the judgment, that in the absence of the result of the commission they calculated that the reversal of the concession contract would cost about EUR 300_million. That was his estimate, now he denies it with his head, he always does the same thing to me as I do these statements and he denies it with his head, and then when I see the video, he seems to be lying: « Calvet ensures that the Generalitat will have the money to recover ATLL. This is news from Ara and puts it down here, "there are about 300 million as compensation for the contract. He said it. And here, even on TV3 you can see the video and hear it being said that, precisely what I said: in the absence of the result of the commission, they calculated that the reversal of the concession contract would cost about EUR 300_million. That was his estimate, even though the company was talking about over a thousand. And yes, we already know that recently because they have come up and said that it will not cost us anything or even that the company will have to pay us but, finally, what I told you is that the estimates, all the serious estimates so far, had been about 300_million. The exact amount, it is true, is pending to determine, and you will understand that it offers no confidence that the figures dance 350_millions up or 350_millions down, depends on the day they rise. They have come to the committee, yes, but they have made deaf ears of everything they have not been interested in explaining. And to the extent that it is clear that there have been many irresponsible and sluggish decisions from the outset, not only from this Government but also from the previous ones, we believe that a parliamentary commission of inquiry has to determine political responsibilities. We, from Citizens, want the Catalans to know how much this is going to cost us, without trillerismos and without fantasies that it is going to come out for free. How it's gonna affect the water bill. Why it was decided that bidding to ATLL was the best way to square those accounts. We want to know, we want Catalans to know what was done when the OARCC, which was the control body, opened an investigation that automatically suspended the current procedure. And what happened so that, suspiciously, the suspension could be lifted so that the contract could be signed and reverted one day later, and also published the opinion just one day after the contract was formalized. Why did he lift the suspension a few days earlier, if that opinion was certain that he did not write it that night? All this is very suspicious and we believe that political responsibilities must be cleared up. And if the Socialist Group does not doubt, surely we will be able to do so. Why was the contract not stalled when the resolution was received, which had only passed one day since it had been formalized and at that time did not cause any problems? And another thing that has to be explained, but very well, at parliamentary level. On the basis of what justification or authorization several advisers of that Government issued a letter telling investors, because if not, they would not put their money, that if in the end the OARCC was right, the Government would undertake to pay that party, beyond what the courts said. With everyone's money, of course, not with your staff. An over-guarantee card that was signed because, if not, no one was going to put their money there. That I say that when they had to make a little card telling investors that they would take care of if a court decision annulled the contract, because they could already have a clue that very well – very well – the thing was not going. All this information or misinformation, all this that we know through the press, all the irresponsibilitys that we suspect, we want to know through its political leaders and in parliamentary office. I believe Catalonia deserves a government that, at least, when it is wrong to recognize it, when it hears all the warnings and warnings that something is being done wrong and ultimately goes wrong, assumes political responsibility at least for that bad decision. That at least the citizens may know that yes, that his Government was wrong, but that it will not happen again. I hope that very soon things will change, and that in Catalonia we will be able to have a government that not only meets the basic premises, such as respecting laws or judicial sentences, but also that governs by putting citizens at the centre of its policies and that has an exciting project of the future that gradually returns to all Catalans. And to start walking towards that future, I think this committee can be a first step. That is so, if, as we say, the Socialist Group, which suspiciously seems to doubt, does not decide to help hide all these political responsibilities. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.131.0	Thank you, honourable Member. Also, as a proposed group, there is now the word of Congressman Lucas Ferro, for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.132.0	Many thanks, Vice President, deputies and deputies. The privatization of Aigües Ter - Llobregat forms part of the largest public right cell of the democratic history of Catalonia, the largest public right cell of the democratic history of Catalonia, consisting of delivering a fundamental right, such as the right to water, to a multinational. Unfortunately, water privatization was not a side event, it was part of a systematic programme of depossession of rights and public services for the city as a whole. And now that we're on the verge of a new discussion of assumptions, it's time to settle accounts with those who are still defending fiscal austerity policies that have broken our welfare state. There was a mantra that repeated all the advisors and advisors to justify the privatization of water in Catalonia: to retail social spending and to privatize public services to contain public debt, and as not, to subsidize the high yields of this country by lowering taxes and delivering them to public services to boost the economy. And this is the policy that failed the welfare state in Catalonia. And it's this policy that they have to reverse encany if they want to overcome the threat to the totality of the assumptions. Eight years after assumptions that consolidate detail and consolidate an anti-social tax we're already on an untapped path. And this is obvious when we see the protests of the public sector and public sector users during this late period. Two salient elements are on the table of how the privatisation of Aigues Ter Llobregat was justified: taxes on high returns and public debt. The year 2008 the estate tax in Catalonia entered 1,000_million euros practically, a little more, in the public accounts of the Generalitat. The year 2012, the year that privatized water management in Catalonia, in recapturing 400, a 60_per_cent rebate, which generated an insurmountable tax drill for the Government of the Generality. And what was the justification for water privatization? The need to contain the public debt. The Generalitat wanted to make up, privatizing the law of water access, the tax drill that had generated by channelling subsidies to high yields in this country. And surely without that operation it would have proved that the Generality's accounts had failed. The privatization of water allowed the Government to enter 298_million euros for the concession, but allowed it to do an accounting operation to say that they drain 1,000_million euros in deficit reduction, computing for the year 2012 the profit expectations of the fifty years of concession. And so he sealed the government's assumptions of the best, with an accounting operation that allowed to discharge 1,000_million euros of public deficit privatizing water management. But now we have a balance, which cost to subsidize 60_percent of the inheritance tax during the year 2011 and 2012 was 1,200_million euros, the privatisation of a fundamental right such as water and the retailing of public services in Catalonia was the price that the Government paid to the city of Catalonia to subsidize with public money a fiscal drilling of 600_million euros annually to the highest yields in the country. And that was a demeanor and it was a shame. But the worst is not what they did, the worst is what they've been doing for another year, the estate tax is still today receiving less than half the amount of 2008, and the tax drill they've generated in 2011 is already worth more than €4,600_million. Because an idea is being developed, the cost of subsidizing the high returns of this country doubles that of social protection in the next assumptions. The Catalonia of 2011 paid, lose their public right over water, the cost of continuing to subsidize the highest renders of the country. And the question you have to answer this year is which price will pay the citizens of Catalonia to continue subsidizing the higher returns of this country. Calling a press round and advertising the most social assumptions of history is easy, but looking at the face of the citizenry and telling it what the cost of continuing to subsidize the richest in this country is no longer so easy. You have come out with the usual propaganda, with the same propaganda that justified the privatization of water in Catalonia, the most social assumptions of history and the need to contain the public deficit. Mirin, between the assumptions of 2011 and the ones they have presented for 2019 there are some details of 600_million euros, but if we update them to inflation, if we update them to which the cost of living in Catalonia has increased, the cumulative details are of 4,500_million euros, and with some details of 4,500_million euros in new years, you have the hard face of talking about social assumptions. I repeat, advertising is easy, but looking at the face of the citizenry and telling him what is the price he will have to pay to continue maintaining an anti-social tax is no longer so easy. Give your face and explain to the citizenry that you will resign to continue subsidizing the high renders of this country. Will they continue to block guaranteed income, continue to maintain the most abusive taxes in the entire state, or will they not continue to deploy a sham plan against male violence? What will be the price of staying in power and subsidizing the high returns of this country based on propaganda? And we're still with the mantra that justified water privatization. There's still one that's repeated today. The public debt of the Generalitat in 2011 was unsustainable and costly to retaliate. The public debt that you inherited from the previous government, before the government of the best came to Catalonia to bargain on how to contain expenditure, was 17 and a half percent of GDP. Eight years of retailing after, eight years of demanding it from the citizenry and public workers of this country that the belt opens, the public debt is practically 35_per_cent. Never, during the Pujol stage or during the tripartite stage, had it reached the level of public debt to which they have brought Catalonia. Eight years of subsidizing taxes on the high returns of this country while they were retailing rights in the city's conjunction, eight years of justifying privatizations such as water privatization, eight years of retailing in universities, health care, education, fighting against male violence, under the argument that the belt should be tightened to contain the public debt, and eight years later they doubled the public debt of the Government of Catalonia. And we follow, because this 2019 will have no social assumptions, but there will be the most indebted Administration of the history of Catalonia, and we congratulate them. Today it's time to audit the water fence they wanted undermetre Catalunya, with the conviction that one day there will be an audit of the public debt in Catalonia that puts black on white the worst offensive against the rights of the citizens of the democratic history of Catalonia. It is necessary to audit the privatisation of Aigues Ter Llobregat for two reasons: because it has been an unprecedented act of a human right and because, moreover, the Supreme Court has decreed the annulment of the tendering procedure. The privatization of water was a wasteland, and it was a disgraceful legal nyap; a nyap that reminds us that behind the governments that are free of technocrats there is no doubt the worst of the possible governments, which has no more ambition than to put the taxation and public rights of this country at the service of a minority. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.133.0	Next, to fix its position, has the word, first place, for the Parliamentary Group of PSC and Units to Advance, the deputy Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.134.0	Thank you, President. Consellera, vice president, councillor, deputies, deputies, mirin, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has positioned itself, has positioned itself from the first moment against the outsourcing of Aigues Ter Llobregat, because it was managed for a private company. The first question that was asked about this question was put by my parliamentary group, I myself, in his name, to Councillor Recoder on July 19, 2012. We presented a motion in this sense that it was not possible to debate in Parliament because, as is customary in the past few years, the legislature ended – we go on two-year periods, right? Instead of four. And we already said at that time: the privatization of the management of Aigües Ter Llobregat that the government of President Mas and the councillor of Economy, then Mr Mas-Colell – remember the « government of the best? – it has turned out to be an authentic "txapusa", has it not? In fact, that privatisation also counted on the recovery – nor is it new, I've heard it once – from Esquerra Republicana, which he didn't say any more, huh? You said no more, Mr. Sanglas. And this externalisation, as has been said many times, has been an embolism since the zero minute; it has been, let me say so, a political fiasco, and we will see if not economic, of the first magnitude. It is a process that has been brought to justice since the first moment, and it is a judgment, because the Government of the Generality there, has been able to defend, also since the zero minute, something that I knew had not done well..., so well, it is a judgment after the judgment, the Generality has not won any of the resources that it has submitted. And in the end the Supreme Court has ruled what we all know: that the award was a null and void award. And in the end the government has adopted an agreement, which was the one that the Socialist Group has sought since the first moment. I also want to remind them that we have presented two proposals for law to respect: one, which passed the debate filter to the plenary and which did not end, did not come to an end, because another time the legislature ended before time, and this time we presented it and there was no time to debate it, and we will not do so either because the government has adopted the agreement that we were looking for, that it is to reverse this outsourcing of Aigues Ter Llobregat and to make the water service high in the public sector. Now, in seven years, no one has self-criticized or assumed a single consequence of that decision, because Aigues Ter Llobregat has been granted a larger public service in Catalonia and has been one of the most spectacular failures and with identified policy makers, huh? But these political leaders identified all of them as if the thing didn't go with them. And we can list it: President Mas, Councillor Mas-Colell, Councillor Recoder, Councillor Santi Vila, Councillor Josep Rull, Mr Pau Villòria – this one who has now been commissioned by the commission of 155, which was the one who signed the contract – Mr Leonard Carcolé, Mr Joan Conte, Mr Joan Pinyol, the main actors. It's all been, I repeat, an authentic..., and a cluster of misproposals, from the same application, to the management of this application, and the grant and explanations of why this decision was made. Here we have heard them of all colors, explanations, huh? Of all colors. And for the Parliament, the presidents of the Generality, councillors, have passed to explain it. We've analyzed... we've listened, huh? We've also looked at court sentences, because, again, this has been a court award since the beginning. They did, and we looked at it from all angles. Therefore, from this point of view, the Socialist Parliamentary Group does not see the need to create a specific committee of inquiry to examine this privatisation process. Why? Deputy Marina Bravo said: "Oh, it's the Socialist Group who doubts. No, no, no doubt, huh? We don't doubt our position, because we believe that the Supreme Court's judgment is to close a process, and open another moment. Who is this moment? So the one about the possible compensation, that's all you have to see with the other – one part yes, eh? But it opens a different moment. Our position, councillors, councillors, deputies and deputies, is to defend public interests. We believe that the government must defend public interests. I told you, in the appearance three weeks ago or one month ago, Councilman Calvet and Vice-President Aragonès, who, in view of the situation so far and in view of the different figures that have been explaining and presenting us throughout this process, huh? , of the cost of possible liquidation, not all the ways of its explanations. We know, however, that this will also end another time in court and we will see who ends up right if the dealership or the various formulas that you have presented to us, because we have gone from 326_millions of possible compensation to claim it from Action 38_millions of euros, to recognize them -after nearly 54, and to announce in the parliamentary appearance of now one_month ago that surely there would be a third proposal for compensation. Miri, I won't discuss them – I won't go into this case – if the contract was null or void; just remember them, huh? , that the rules of the game marked them, or marked them the « Government of the best, that we are in a market economy and that the contract signed the Government. Therefore, we will be waiting for all of this to evolve. At the government's control session, the vice president had a word, or a sluggish – it seemed to me that after some other counselor also repeated it, it must be today's love statement, huh? , of esteem –..., and the vice president said to us: "We estimate public finances. So, look, I've looked at this power point that presented the other day; I've also gone to the page where the assumptions have been put, and there's a topic that I didn't make clear, I don't know how to see, huh? Maybe it's my difficulty, but it still doesn't explain to us, counselor, what happens to that 1,000_million euros deficit that Mas-Colell deconsolidated the year 2012 and that, with the Supreme's feeling, somehow, they will have to come back, and I remind you that this is about 0.5_percent of Catalonia's gross domestic product, huh? I hope it's too late to talk to us about this, too. We didn't see it either, and we went to look at the contingency fund, which you finally provided. And for the time being, we haven't seen a single amount of that, preventive, respect what they calculate can end up with this compensation. Look, we think the commissions... and we don't finally support the investigation board, because we think the investigation board serves, like Parliament's Rules of Procedure say, huh? , to resolve whether there are political responsibilities. Miri, the same Supreme Court ruling has already said that everything went wrong, huh? Political leaders are identified. If we were to continue in action, we would probably ask them for political responsibilities and that they had their place of business at their disposal. It's not, in this case, the case. We're gonna start badly and we want that in the end, huh? , it is no longer a legal and economic issue affecting public interests and water users' buttocks in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.135.0	Thank you, Congressman. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the return of the deputy Natialia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.136.0	Hello, good morning. On February 20, 2018, you know, Sentence 269/2018 was dictated for the fourth section of the room of the administrative content, which resolves unfavorably the claims contained in the funds of cassation lodged for the Government of Catalonia and for the General Society of Waters of Barcelona, confirming definitively the nullity of the agreement of the contract of management of the water supply service. With this sentence is placed in the agreement of privatization of the crown jewel that the Department of Territories and Sustainability took. The reasons for which the award was declared null and void, based on the existence of a contradiction in the tendering procedure, are not those that lead us to support the proposal to create this commission of inquiry, but we believe that this can serve us to demand responsibilities that they agreed to privatize a necessary asset for life and not only let it be negotiated with a common good but also allowed us to dress in the face, allowing among all the charges we paid for services that were never provided, as evidenced by the Anti-Fraud Office on the basis of a complaint filed by the CGT. This committee gives us the opportunity to investigate which are the real interests that led the government to make this decision and whether this really responds to the rights and needs of the citizenry or whether it actually responds to the interests of the water mafia. The Vice-President and the Territorial Councillor explained to us that it was a complicated time, that the Government was liquidated at a difficult time, that it was necessary to cover certain social needs and that the water canon represented an opportunity, as we are told in many other questions. They don't want to feel this song again. First of all, to get a few tickets that we end up paying all the citizens by charging water regardless of our economic capacity to cover social demand is nothing that no government should be proud of. And, second of all, because where we pay for water supply, we have to go to improve this service. And finally, because you lowered... yes, the government, lowered taxes to the richest and made us buy this waste of resources from the working class. Today it may be said that there was a question or that this is a question to attack the independence movement. We are grateful that this issue has not been put at the centre and that other arguments have been prioritized. We – you know – are supporters of direct service management, and concretely of direct water cycle management, because through this we can guarantee popular water management control. Water is an essential good that affects people's lives and ecosystems. For this reason, entities working in the sector, venous entities, environmentalists and popular classes in general could participate in the decision making and exercise direct control over the price, investments, maintenance of the network. Second, because water has to be for everyone. Third, because direct management involves better working conditions for workers. Fourth, because there is an intrinsic ecological sustainability. Water resources cannot be submissive to private business dynamics, nor can they be managed disconnected from water to the mouth. For this reason, the management will take into account the health of ecosystems as well as the establishment of progressive consumption prices, recording the use of swimming pools, tourist equipment, second residences, large industries, etc., due to the complete management of the water cycle. Five arguments for which we are in favour of direct water management: water of higher quality and lower price. With direct management, what is now a millionaire benefit to companies will be money that will be used to ensure a better quality of water and service, the better of the network and the most affordable prices for the population. Yes, preserve basic rights and essential services for life and keep them off the market. Setè– importantíssim –: transparency in public resources. We have the right to know what the administrations are spending and how they are spending it. A municipal management, direct, is the most guaranteed and transparent way to provide a public service. I, finally, sovereignty over the territories. The construction of an independent future state is not possible while the basic and fundamental benefits for life, such as water, are in the hands of transnational private companies, which aim at their private business benefit at the cost of exhausting our aquifers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.137.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.138.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with... you know that every time we talk about this concession, about this outsourcing, I have to make a little history for you, because sometimes memory is weak, so... It's that more things don't happen because yes, all things that happen have a justification and have a certain origin. And the origin of what we are patenting today is not an evil government of Convergence and Union with the People's Party contest, which decide to outsource a public enterprise and which must manage a public service, which must manage a public good. No, the origin of this is in the year 2008 – in the year 2008 – and precisely in the same, the most important even of the last years that we suffered in Catalonia, during the last years. And then there was a government, the tripartite, remember? To the list of advisors quoted by Mr Terrades, he forgot to add Councillor Baltasar, he also forgot to add Councillor Castells, who were advisors of the environmental thing, on one side, and of the economic thing on the other side. So, there was a government that, as a chicken slaughtered, with the forgiveness of the chickens, took steps that they assumed was a spectacular debt of the Catalan Agency of Water and the public enterprise Aigues Ter Llobregat. More than 1,700, 1,800_million euros. And this was put into evidence in the union reports..., more with unstructured debts..., it was put into evidence in the reports of the Union of Accounts, which even said that the viability of the ATLL company was at risk. That same government, too, I want to take advantage of to remind you, because it is always speaking: « Escorts, taxes, taxes, taxes..., no, so sometimes there are other decisions that have implications for the things that are fanciful. Precisely by the year 2008 the government, this very government that I was talking to you about now, might have had the option of trying to reduce the debt of public enterprises that managed water. But, no, he made another decision. He made the decision to remove TV3's debt, because I suppose it was much more important TV3, that it was not possible to bill the city, that water companies, that it was possible to bill, via tariff, the drilling that had been left to the city. But it's that, besides, those governments didn't have enough value to implement the economic and financial plans that recommended significant increases in tariffs. And so we arrive in 2011, with a situation of the company Aigues Ter Llobregat extraordinarily delicate. And so, the year 2011, parties as opposed to outsourcing or privatization or, as I would say, against this measure, like the Socialist Party, the year 2011 voted in favour of changing the law that allowed the outsourcing of the company Aigues Ter Llobregat. And then 2012 was the auction; it corrected, in a hurry, very badly. Obviously very badly done, not just as we see it now, but as it is already seen at the same time. First, it was a functioning government. Second, there were presses to charge the 300_million of the concession in an immediate way to be able to make power against the nominees of the month of December of the year 2012. Third, there was also the pressure to be able to count the 1,000_million of the operation to fifty years to reduce the deficit facing the Government of Spain, but also facing Europe. And these are all the circumstances that surrounded that award, the bad award, which was already rebutted from the same day 1, and when I said on the 1st day of January 2013, the same day that this concession was put on the market, and which, therefore, has lasted until now. No, I'm wrong, it hasn't lasted so far, because this is still going to last much longer. Because at the time of setting up the responsibilities of canceling this contract, so here begins the waffle ball. And to what it was to be a payment of 300_millions for the servants in some way loaned, on the margin of damages and damages, on the margin of cease-fire, therefore, for the Government appears a liquidation that is precisely the undertaking that must bring money to the Generality. And, therefore, we understand that this will also end up in court, it will certainly end up a few years later. So, I'm looking at this whole picture. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] In view of all this, we have no objection to the fact that there is a commission of inquiry...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.139.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.140.0	...that I can put black on white all these questions. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.141.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr. Marc Sanglas has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.142.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Councillor... in any case, we find ourselves today – someone pointed this out, some of the other Members who have intervened beforehand – at the end of a long way; a crooked path, a path that this parliamentary group has never supported, huh? And, therefore, Mr Terrades, I have to bring you the contract, and you know that I have great esteem for you, but in any case, we also need to clarify the situation. Republican Left has always been critical of this process. I want to remind you that Republican Left was not part of the government that decided this question. In any case, and this is an element that we have always criticized, this award is made in an interregency between the constitution of one parliament and another and, therefore, let's say, it is a government of which the Republican Left was not a party that holds this award and we have always been very critical and, therefore... The only thing that we did, in any case, and waiting to avoid a greater pressure on public finances and to try to avoid a major damage to the situation that had been created at that time..., we thought that the most correct position, taking into account the judicial process, that had already been immediate, of which it was a matter was, like better criteria, to expect, in any case, the feelings, the different judicial feelings, to finish the judicial procedure in march to prevent any action, any early contractual termination generated by a nyap over another nyap. Because, in any case, we have been critical in this sense, that we believe that things were done in a hurry and currents, that they were not done in the best way possible and, therefore, let us say, we believe that what we could not do was increase or accentuate this situation. We did an evaluation, let's just say, of what could be worse and from this point of view we thought it was the best. You know, Mr. Terrades, we haven't spoken on various occasions, and you want the immediate reversal of the contract, which we believe, from our point of view, that was not possible. We believe that, in short, also at the time of analysing this situation, we cannot fail to put into context at what time or why those actions are due to the end. Mr. Rodriguez pointed it out in one, let's face it, a prolific relationship of events from the year 2008 until this moment. And so, let's just say, it was also in what context it was realized and in what economic context was the Government of the Generality, especially for which it had done what it had done with the management respect to the hydraulic infrastructure and some responsibilities. Therefore, from this point of view, we have to take into account, and we also have to take into account the general context of an instrument approved for the State, which is called the FLA and, therefore, the situation of economic opacity that the country has in that context; the context of economic obligation that continues to exist, that it does not have an upsurge, let us say, the predatory will of the Government of the State respects the aspect of the economic situation of the country and it was invented there by the FLA, that, in short, what corresponded is that with our own resources, with the fiscal deficit that we suffer as a country, plus we would have to pay interest on the issue. Therefore, this was the situation in a context, let's say, of this economic offence, that the Government of the Generality at that time tried, let's say, to get out of sugar with this operation and with some other operation that we didn't think had been done. In any case, we also want and believe that it should be put in context. We believed, and from that first moment, we worked..., and the different commitments we made from the public point of view, and that was clear and clear in all the parliamentary interventions that we have made, despite the fact that someone would not want to recognize us..., we were working to make it possible to reverse it at the time it was appropriate, at the time when the different judicial sentences were over. And this is what leads us to fix in the accompanying Law of 2017, in an additional provision, the additional provision sisena in concrete..., which already creates the basis for making possible this creation of a public enterprise, one hundred_per_cent of public capital, which was the one that managed all the action and managed it from the water. And, therefore, from this point of view and, from here, the approval of Decree 4/2018, which creates the ATL company as a public company. Beyond justice, because the issue of water is a complex issue, it is a basic right, as it has been pointed out, we believe that from this point of view it is better that this is managed, from the point of view, through some wholly public capital company..., we think that water justice is not an exclusive issue of the Government of the Generality, but that other administrations that have also been managing water, as has happened in the case of the Metropolitan Area, has also ended with rather complex judicial processes. Therefore, they understand and recognize, let's say, that we are ahead of a basic right, it is obvious that someone is trying to negotiate with the question of water and, therefore, from this point of view always generating some important economic conflicts. We also believe that, in any case, the Government of the Generality has been supplemented, let us say, by an obligation to be prolific, also for what it does to the parliamentary explanations before this chamber and before the different committees of Territories and Sustainability that have been there at this time. And, therefore, I would also like to recall that, for example, in the current legislature, the Government's advisors appeared until three times, on March 27, 2013, August 29, 2013 and July 15, 2015. In the eleventh legislature it was also compared, the Economic Councillors and the Territorial Councillors, on May 11, 2016, to account for the situation. And then a few weeks ago, Councilman Calvet and Vice President Aragones also appeared to account, in this case, for the liquidation state. Therefore, from our point of view, we insist that there has been clarity about the management of what has been done; we insist that from our political point of view we do not believe that everything has been done well, and, in any case, we have insisted on..., we have been making the criticisms; but, in any case, we believe that the will of transparency over the operation has also followed, right? From this point of view, we believe that some of the criticisms that have been made aside, let's say, by some of the proponents for what he does to the board of inquiry are not adjusted. We think that trying to sweep the management, let's say, of Eagles having Llobregat with L9 or with Spanair is not a waste, we think it is other questions. And for what it does to the issue of Spanair basically we were able to detect, through the different commissions, that there was a very clear interference on the part of the Government of the State so that this operation could not be made possible. For what you do on the subject of the L9, we could, Madam Bravo, you know, that we could make a huge list of inversions or non-inversions of the Government of the State, and unfortunately some of them have, let's say, repercussions on the daily life and on the physical life of the people who live in this country. Regardless of what you think, you know and are aware that the lack of investment in rolling stock is brutal; you have recognized it, the minister has acknowledged it, and therefore all governments have made it, for many promises that there are, huh? And so from this point of view, we think it's not a waste. For what it does to the revocation of the contract forty-four years before it was predicted, so look, listen, if it could have been forty-six years before, we believe that all of us have not been happy and, therefore, let's say, we have improved this situation. For what it does to, let's say, assumptions reviews, right? Mr. Ferro told us that if the social assumptions, that if they don't contemplate... Listen, you've spent weeks and weeks asking us to adopt the most social assumptions of the Spanish State... What are they? , those that increased the defense assumption? The presuppositions that increased the presupposition of defense the most? Are these the social assumptions that you have been defending that we approve of any price and in any way? When, moreover, it came to pass that everything there was smoke and that, therefore, from this point of view, there was no content, then... with content at the back and, therefore, from this point of view they did not carry us away. And, Mr. Terrades, let's have it: the law doesn't approve, let's say, by air, by infused science, eh? Someone gave support to the bill that was made possible after some operations from this point of view and, therefore, some have responsibilities from this point of view in all of this management, even though they are later involved in escapades, huh? And, therefore, we also finish saying this: we insist that we are happy that this process has finally ended, as we believe that we have never started, but that, in any case, the public management of a good so much burdened, as water, of a good necessary, as Mrs. Sanchez commented, in public hands, that it allows us to govern which is to be the tariff from public control and, therefore, to reinvest the benefits in all the question and with all the investments needed to pull through a whole process, an integral cycle of water... We believe that this is the model that we need to follow, we believe that this is the opportunity that this government has already put on the road and, therefore, if there is no way to get out of the case, in any case. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.143.0	Thank you, Congressman. All the same, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the words of Mr Narcis Clara.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.144.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, advisers, members of Parliament, guests, soc de l'opinion that, once the new public ATL has been constituted, as a consequence of the application of the additional sisena provision of the Law 5/2017, the reptes of the future surpass in interest, and of much, the analyses of the past. To devote efforts to insist once and for all on questions that have either been perfectly exposed, raonades and established or are about to decide definitively in the courts probably not the most opportune. Tanmateix, the resolution proposal is what it is, and I will try to frame myself there. The resolutive part is a relationship of various analyses and valuations at different times of time, from the reason of the externalization of the service, in 2012, to the consequences of the cancellation of the contract, which go beyond the current moment. Some of the arguments I will present to you, especially for the liquidation, have already been presented by Vice President Aragonès and Councillor Calvet in their appearance at the committee on the 3rd of the I of the 19th. He's hardly changed since then. The craziest fact of 2012 is that I granted the service, not the title. During the concession, the actions will continue to be public, and the concessionaire was subject to the control and decisions of the public power, as demonstrated by the fact that it required the approval of the Generality to push tariffs or to do works, for example. Prior to 2012, the public ATLL was responsible for governance and operation. In the period 2013-2018, it is constituted the Council of Xarxa Ter Llobregat, which acts as the public entity in charge of the governance of the entire system. From this year on, this structure is maintained, with the remarkable difference that the management of the ATL is public. In the majority of interventions on the concession of the management of Aigues Ter Llobregat plan different perceptions of why the award of the management of the ATLL to a private company. Since the constitution of the ATLL and until 2003, the political colour of the Government of the Generalitat was the same. Then, it is coherent to defend that the management of the ATLL is outsourced by strictly ideological reasons, to weaken the Catalan public sector, as is often suggested? If so, why isn't he growing up with this format already? Or why is management not awarded before 2003? There hasn't been a long time, and it's not fire. That's definitely not the reason. The reasons all of you know them so well, even though some people don't want to recognize them. The economic circumstances of the moment are the main reason, and I would say that only, of that decision. A combination of external factors – the continued infra-financing of the Generality, the obligation to drastically reduce the deficit and the same situation as the ATLL – unite to create an indefensible situation. The very serious global economic crisis, the closure of the financial markets and the risk premium at six hundred basic points will draw a first negative perimeter for the finances of the Generality. In a_second more internal environment we find two interrelated causes that we barely continue to paint. First of all, fiscal finances, to which I will refer very briefly; the results of the year 2012 are about 10,000_millions with the benefit method and about 13,000_millions with the monetary flow method, resource flows always negating for our country. Secondly, the non-complimentary principle of regularity; that is, after applying the guarantee of basic services, of sufficiency and competitiveness, the situation in Catalonia in the order of entrances per inhabitant lowers a few positions. In short, Catalonia is a very dynamic economic country, as demonstrated by its export rate, for example, but in change, it has few resources to finance the services that citizens claim and to which they have all the right. A conjunctural but phonental factor caused the pre-established border of the '1,5_per_cent of the public deficit. The positive trend for the rebalancing, as explained by one Member State, of the later years is marked by policies that will be implemented at the beginning of this decade. If it is true that if the deficit target had been fulfilled by the cent_per_cent probably the Catalan economy would have suffered too much, it is also that there was an obligation to approach us at the pre-established border, and so the government did, reducing by approximately 80_per_cent the difference between the deficit of the previous year and the pre-established border value. A persistent high level of deficit would imply a higher debt, with the consequent cost for future generations. Paying the debt and its interests was and is inescapable. Measures such as the one we are dealing with will be implemented; also many others, and more so at the tax level. This treatment is based on public-private collaboration, as is done in other domains such as public transport and housing, to present two examples of the same consultancy to which ATLL was subject. Still, there has to be a presuppositional reduction. This was not homogeneous, but mainly affected those minor public services in comparison to sanitation or teaching, which would have less discreet percentage reductions. If we focus on the ATLL, the losses of previous periods – which I will not analyze, because I have already expressed that I prefer to think of the key of the future and not of the past – there was a debt subrogated to the Generality of 756_million euros. This financial economic situation posed a risk to the continuity and quality of the service. With the first payment of the canon, 299 of the 995.5_million total, had to be paid nominals. Besides, it's the accounting point for the total import, so that all the amount served to reduce the deficit of 2012, as well as crazy. How has the government faced this conflict? With professionalism, following all and each of the established standard procedures, complementing the resolutions of the courts, with bureaucracy, as expressed by Councillor Calvet, strictly, having as its main objective the maintenance of service and quality, the preservation of public heritage, that is, defending above all the interests of all the citizens of Catalonia. Most likely the most important question that remains to resolve is the cost, whether positive or negative, of the recovery of the management. What have the courts told us? The first judgement of the TSJC did not explain whether the contract was null and void; it later indicated that it was an invalidation assumption. In any case, the contract is not valid. A first given, certainly, for 300_million to return to the Generality, but it was the fruit of preliminary information, which did not take into account the cancellation of the contract. Moreover, the liquidation commission did not intervene, as it was not constituted. The first permanent professional liquidation with the assumption of zero right contract of about 38_million euros, resulting in a cost of about 874 and a fee of about 912, in this case favorable to the Generality. In these calculations it is recognized the expenses arising from the material performance of the contract, the imports of satisfied canons, the cost of the works executed, the legal interest on the import pending recovery of the initial canon and an industrial margin of 10_percent of the operating costs, in order to avoid an unjust enrichment of the Administration. In the new calculations, which are the product of the cancellation of the contract and of not being a full contract, four new points are recognised by the company: the costs of bidding for capital transfers and documented legal acts, the financial expenses of the ATLL as a consequence of the loans formalised with financial entities or with companies of its own business group, the expenses of the company tax for the import that the tax agency does not make effective its return and, finally, the recognition of the estimation of the benefit of the concession between the 3rd of IV of 18 and the 31st of XII of 18. The result of the costs increases to about 966_millions and the input ones, naturally, is maintained, and gives a result of the second provisional final liquidation of about 53_millions. The final settlement can only take place when the 2018 data is real and not estimated. There is no inconsistency, but the opposite: different hypothesis, different results. The incoherent would be exactly the opposite: that with various serial results it was the same. Finally, we note that this month's news has been very satisfactory for the Generality. Due to the TCJ's interlocutory, in which the precautionary measures are rejected, the concessionaire has resolved to give the ATLL's keys to the Generality and allow this to take possession of all the acts. From my presentation all of you must have deduced, without any doubt, that our group will vote against this motion for a resolution. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.145.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall vote first on the motion for a resolution tabled for the Parliamentary Group in Ciutadans and then vote on the motion for a resolution tabled for the Parliamentary Group in Ciutadans, also jointly with the one in Catalonia in Comú Puem. [[Proposal for a resolution establishing a commission of inquiry on the award of the water supply service at Ter-Llobregat (continuation) (withdrawn)]] [[252-00014/12]] Yeah. Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.146.0	Yes, that all two proposals are identical, and therefore we would withdraw the one that we only sign, to vote only the one that is presented for everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.147.0	Okay. So...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.148.0	For other groups, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.149.0	As long as you withdraw the first motion for a resolution, we would only vote in the second place, that is to say the one tabled for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans and for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. Let us therefore vote on this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 49 votes to 76, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation of the great people]] [[302-00060/12]] Let's move on, then, to the next item on the agenda, which is the seven-point, which is the motion following the question to the Government about the situation of the great people, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose it, has the word the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.150.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, councillor, councillor. Also to greet the representatives of ACRA, who accompany us today in this debate we present with the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance the motion following the inquiry that we held a few days ago in this Parliament on the situation of the great people in Catalonia. And we will do so in four very different areas that we consider to be fundamental to improving the welfare of the great people in our country. First of all, increased performance. In this case, we ask for the recovery of two thousand new services linked to residence and thus cut off the loss of related services that prevents people who need a place from accessing a residence that is close to home. We're asking for two thousand and we've got five thousand lbs of residence. Therefore, we do not want to ask for impossible; we want to ask for things that are possible, that can be done, and, therefore, the presuppositionary effort that you, as the government, Mr. Counsellor, must undertake. How much does our proposal cost? Seventeen million euros. We also ask for benefits for residence, but we also ask for details in services related to residence that the government started, because you know that the benefits related to residence already in the year 2010 were higher than we have at these times, because there was a part of the autonomic tram that was installed and that complemented these benefits. So we have to return another time to these benefits that allow people to pay less to access a place of residence. And basically, we also ask what we had before, we ask the government for its commitment to reap that non-professional caregivers can pay for their social contribution, their social security, even though it is an issue, indeed, of the State, but they must also try to increase your benefits by a 30_per_cent. Therefore, more services linked to residence, more and more services to non-professional caregivers, Mr. Counsellor, 27_million euros. Second ambit, more seats. Since the Government will not set up a euro for the construction of new public residences, the Government that wants to present to us a paper, a study, wants to explain to us some assumptions that it has not presented, that it is assumed that they are the most social of the history, does not provide a_euro– or a_euro– for the construction of new public residences in Catalonia, so since you have this policy in the case of the own assumptions, if it is that you are presenting, we want you to be able to agree all the places that make the joints, because at these times it is the joints that are building the joints, which do not touch them, and you, if in case, the joints that make the joints. Therefore, those girls' residences with public money must have public seats arranged for the Government of Catalonia. Moreover, in order to try to occupy the five thousand places of day center that are also empty, we propose to open two thousand and also to improve the adapted transport from home to these centers, which would have a presuppositional impact of about 15 million euros. Just remind him that an hour of day center is cheaper than an hour of parking to any city. Five hundred nine public places in residences that have built the joints and opened two thousand nine day center places, counselor, 24 million euros. Third level, quality of service. It is necessary to commission an external audit, not a study, not a report, which is worth if the attention is good, if the food is correct, if it is complete, if the medical and health services are the right ones, since you are refusing to change the inspection mechanisms and therefore we find that only someone independent can give us the guarantee that a good job has been done. And in order to achieve this, it will be warmer, more hierogulatory, more hierogulatory, to increase the quality of the service, with better working and wage conditions, and it will be warmer to update the costs and tariffs of the sector, etc. And in the fourth place, those things that don't cost money and that's a question of political will. We want you to have the big people's preview that you have committed to doing in 2017 and that we are still waiting for and have only a powerpoint; we want you to also have a strategic plan of better home care services, which is reinforced, that you see how we can make the people look good at their home; we want Catalonia to have a plan for security for the big people, a new framework for fighting against the abuse of the big people, as the current one is from 2012, and we want and ask another day to update the Social Services Portfolio. Counselor, these are possible proposals, and you don't even have the excuse of a few assumptions for not being able to do so. I think it would be good for us to get out of this Parliament as much as we can with the compromise that you can do something, even if it's minimal, even if it's just opening up four of your seats that you have locked up to make them available to the great people, who at these times can cheat up to four years to hope to have a place in a public residence in our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.151.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Elisabeth Valencia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.152.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counsellors, advisers, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, people who are with us today, good morning to all of us. The elderly currently in Catalonia represent 18_percent of society and this figure is expected to reach 25_percent by 2030. This means that one_of_each_four people in 2030 will be over sixty_and_five years old. The situation we live in Catalonia with regard to care for the elderly is alarming and the need for improvement is vital. We came from years of Convergence governments in which the scissors have been taken out to make the largest cut of social rights known in Catalonia; while with one hand social rights were cut to all Catalans, with the other the stellate was taken and our society was divided into two. The level of irresponsibility is enormous: dividing Catalan society, cutting our rights and continuing to turn our back on social policies. In our autonomous community more than eleven_ thousand people have died, as my partner has indicated before, in the last five years waiting for a resource. Persons who had applied for the Dependency Act had died and had not received the assistance they needed. We have a waiting list of more than eighteen_ thousand people to access a residence – Spain's highest waiting list, by the way. How can it be explained that, with this waiting list, we have five thousand empty residence places, Mr. Counsellor? It is only explained by a lack of political will and incompetence. Look, the average price of a place of residence is two_ thousand_euros, and we know people who pay up to 2,400_euros for their family members to be cared for. Families have had to borrow, some have had to mortgage their homes. Do you think this cost is borne by Catalan families? We are not going to walk around with rodeos, we ask this government to build residences, we want more public and concerted squares and we want them where they are needed. The government has it easy. Stop squandering public money from all Catalans in the independence process, in maintaining your structure of high-ranking and finger-plugged positions and devote the budget of the Generalitat de Catalunya to reducing the waiting list and to caring for the elderly decently, please. [[Greetings.]] From Ciutadans we agree that where people are best while they can be in their homes, but home care services are also insufficient and when people need residence because they can no longer endure at home, they don't have it, they die waiting. The Government is unable to tell us what will happen with the attention of our elders in the coming years in Catalonia. What are you going to do? What strategy are they going to follow? Are you going to open up more residential spaces, Mr. Counsellor? Are you going to recover the day - center squares? Will related economic benefits be increased? Will they once dignify the working conditions of workers in the sector? Please explain to us what they're going to do. We have tabled an amendment to the motion to ensure that, once and for all, residences are built, that more public places are opened up, both for residences and day centres and for wards, and we want it to be done, we repeat, where it is most needed. Analyzing the PSC motion, we have to tell you it looks like a Union or Convergence motion. The wording of Mr. Swordler, the motion, Mr. Moreno? We are in favour of public-private collaboration, it would be missing more, but you forget that the priority must be both to arrange places and to promote the construction of new public residences. We do not know why the PSC does not put it in its motion; it must be because at the time of drafting the motion the PSC was in negotiations with Squerra Republicana to approve the general budgets of the State or because it has been drafted by the most convergent part of its parliamentary group, Mr Espadaler. We tell the Socialist Party not to use the Catalans as the currency of change for the independence governments; it is our duty to demand that the Government make the necessary changes to improve this situation. From the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, they know that we have proposed a committee to improve the quality of older people in Catalonia. The purpose of this committee is to listen to the whole sector, and we are doing so, to ask the Government to make the necessary commitments to ensure that the elderly are cared for with the dignity they deserve. We will not be a just and advanced society until we are able to serve them as they deserve; we owe them what we are, we cannot turn our backs when they need us most. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.153.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, also to defend the papers presented, for the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the word Najat Driuech MP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.154.0	Thank you, Vice President. Good morning, counselors, counselors, deputies and deputies. First of all, I want to begin by greeting all the entities, professionals, caregivers and caregivers who make possible an active and worthy aging of our great people. Well, this young man, as we understand it, is the paradigm of the electoral context that we are living in. Why am I saying that? Because they submitted a letter to the King and did not want to negotiate very often. This sort of obviating the negotiation is suddenly starting to be your day-to-day pa, and it'll end up passing the bill, because I don't think your voters think this is the way to do politics. But what I say to them, this is a letter to the King, because he has all the basics to be: he asks for all the things that I like, I think it's all free because they bring him some magical ones that make the desires come true and, if they don't bring me everything that they need, I will roam without knowing that it was impossible for me to carry everything I put to the letter. And this creates disaffection, PSC companies and companies. And I can tell, because I'm here circumstantially. When the citizenry is on our couches seeing your variable speeches depending on the degree of management responsibility you have, we agree that you are doing partyism and not politics. And that's what you're doing here today. That's not ideological difference, that's creating an unreal account of some assumptions that we don't complete because we don't want it when you know perfectly well that if you take it from yourself, you won't be able to take on those goals. Do you really think that if we could, we wouldn't agree on 100 percent of the places of residences and centers? Do they really think that if we could, we wouldn't open two thousand new day centers and residences? But we will never lie to the citizenry. Neither now that they depend on us, nor when a few years ago we were the smallest group in this hemisphere and we were consistent with the situation in the country. Now, they don't just ask questions that can't be assumed because there isn't enough resources, but they ask us questions that don't fall on us, like incorporating more gerocultors and gerocultors, when they know that this depends on collective bargaining. When they intend to start actions without having had to finish things. For example, update the Social Service Portfolio, without waiting for the approval of the Strategic Social Service Platform. But it's the same, when it comes to filling in headlines to get a few votes, it's the same. So, do a little favor to the citizenry and prepare the path to the extreme right. Because before populism and lying, you'll never win. Preaching that it is possible to achieve impossible objectives, what they do is create false hopes and demonstrate one thing: that they are clear that they will be many years in opposition to Catalonia. Because if you think you can rule, I'm sure you won't agree that these commitments can be met. And last: remember that they took a great idea of Catalanism and the left, that of Councilwoman Simó, the system of dependence, and made it theirs through the Government of Zapatero, underfunding and creating difficult problems for the Generality at the time of managing. I mean, you took a great idea and a good system, you made great promises and you never made any responsibility. They never took their share of co-financing, making prisoners of their promise the Generalitat, which did not just have to assume 50_percent of the financing that corresponded to it, as you already know... Besides, they come and claim that we complete the cent_per_cent that corresponded to another. In short, if they want to talk about the improvement and dignity of the lives of our great people, without demagogicity and from the responsibilities, here they will tend to us, as we have done in two aspects that have accepted us, of many that we have presented. But we won't play to create false expectations and less, with our great people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.155.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, also to defend the papers presented, for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word MP Imma Gallardo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.156.0	Thank you very much, President. Advisers, advisors; Members of Parliament; Members of Parliament; in particular ACRA and the public present; very good morning to everyone. I would like to begin by thanking the group proposing the opportunity to debate such an important issue, and also to Mr Moreno and Mr Driuech, for the work done, even though she was not very successful, as the honourable Member has explained to us. And here we all agree: in Catalonia we have a hard problem, we have a society every time we get older, and we start to point out that we don't take good care of older people. I have clearly explained the licentiate in economic and business sciences, Maria Galofré, in the 2001 article: "The age of European citizens versus the childhood of European citizenship. He's divided years from the article, but he's still more active than ever. Deia Galofré, that: "the increase in the number of great people, that each time they live more years, poses to the discovery the shortcomings and the deficiencies of a system of social benefits and health care designed at a time when the democratic structure was totally inverse. In short, the population's aging is still a triumph in the struggle of life against disease and death. But if we want it to be enveloped with a higher quality of life, we must rethink the social and health care system, in order to improve it from a more cross-cutting and participatory look. The name also does the thing, this time it does. Just as in a given moment it was considered that the old word "old" had some more pejorative connotations, and we were going to start naming them "great people, perhaps today we should be able to find the names that fit more to the reality of people, who do not only care for the nets, but also actively participate in society life, from university, the associate world or joining the new technologies. In this high legislature, we have the responsibility to listen much more to the knowledge. For this reason, we have approved a lot of appearances, both entities and experts, to the newly created Study Commission of the Great Gent. The Plan of Government already speaks of a single strategy of integrated, social and health care for large people, or with complex needs, that will promote their personal autonomy and facilitate their stay in the usual context. Surely, many of us here agree with these principles, the problems come in how to put them into practice. Most points of the young man should incorporate the statement he said: "according to the presuppositional availabilities, because if there is no funding, they are not viable, for more electoralists than they are. Just a little bit of memory: 2006, PSOE Dependency Law, with funding at 50_per_cent State and Autonomous Communities. I've been told by the congresswoman. They've never been fulfilled. 2012: Decree detailing the government of the PP, because finally, the contribution that ended from each of the administrations, the proportion already commented for Councillor El Homrani, on some occasions is that of each of the two contributed, seven of them the Generalitat, two the user, because there is a co-sponsorship, and one the State. I can't say anything more. Regardless of whether Spain has ruled the PP or the PSOE, the resources for Catalonia never arrive, and that one day they will have to explain to us. And let's not waste, because we still don't have the resources we generate, some data from 2017: 14,390 people incorporated into the system, respect the previous year; or 2,672 new direct jobs, generated for the increase of services. And I know they'll tell me we're always talking about the tax deficit, but it's just that the figures are scandalous. If we have the tickets we generate, we could invest them in those policies that allow us to improve our attention to all the citizens of Catalonia. From Junts per Catalunya, we think we should be able to design the best policies in order to promote a more active and healthy aging, which is more with the big people. Models that can be adapted to the capacity level of each school, but also to the diversity of the territory. Because loneliness is so present to any small people of Pirinaeus, as to the great cities, but the way to fight it is very different, and here we also need policies that guarantee residential assistance, with a decent deal; but also policies that enhance home aging, if that's the chosen option. And I finish: we are still in time to improve aspects, in any case, the public administrations have a very important part, of responsibility, but it is also of all our society. And this must also be one of the great hindrances of the future republic. Among all the pleas we must take better care of our older people, as we would like, in the future, to take care of ourselves. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.157.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, to fix his position, he has the word, first place, for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomão, the deputy Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.158.0	Good morning, everybody. This young man is perhaps an exhibition of what my..., the president of my parliamentary group, this morning: in many fears of what, long ago, huh? , we work, sometimes, in parallel, or together with the Socialist Party, and with the Socialist Group, we are the ones who end up with each other, because they actually do things from the perspective of the left. There's this young man today, and then there's a young man from my parliamentary group, from Catalonia to Comú Pueblo. In both cases, we are complementary in this aspect of dependence, my treatment also of other themes. And in ours, there is this bet to ensure that this lack of response to the people who suffer dependence and who already have recognized rights, from the construction of more public places, from the increase of the rates conditioning that these vagina money to improve the working conditions of the staff who work in these residences, or to increase the rates and also, of staff, and also the labor inspection, of how it works in these residences. As it is, obviously, we will approve completely this motion of the Socialist Group, we have not made any mention of it, we find it complementary to our proposals, because they do not only build new places of residence, we will give answers to the 18,500 people who are now waiting for a place already recognized as a right. And therefore, we would also like a bet for the increase of the services linked, of the ENPs, which is the bet made in this young man, the Socialist Group, or for the services of non-professional caregivers; or for more places of day centers. Obviously, we find it complementary to our main, presuppositional bet, which we have in the next motion, which is the construction of nine public places. Certainly, the papers, all or almost all of the papers that have been presented by..., together with the government groups, Juntes per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana, is not to quantify anything, in this motion, and because everything is subject to presuppositional availability. Very well, it is normal, there must have been presuppositional availability, but it is that we are told, when you are presenting some figures of a project of presuppositions, this past diluns; a project of presuppositions that increase a little more than 100_million there..., that have already been spent from the Department of Work, Afers Socials, the year 2018 and that, as far as dependence in concrete, assume exactly the same that they have executed the year 2018; exactly the same. Therefore, you are making a presuppositional availability for the year 2019 that does not allow anything to be different, according to the year 2018. And the little margin you have, with the same amount, and the same amount, which you've already spent on 2018, the only change they make – and they still haven't denied this Member's claim in this sense – is that they won't only allocate zero_euros to building new seats, as they have done so far, but they'll think of going zero in this year 2019: zero. You, with these ideas and with these proposals, what they're saying is that 2019 year, depending on it, they think they're doing more than the same, and that's what they're generous about, because they're actually doing less than the same. And that means that people are still dying waiting for the place of residence, that's what's been going on these past few years, and that we're following one of the worst autonomous communities in response to the dependency; from the worst on the waiting list; from the worst in time to the waiting; from the worst in co-opting families to these dependency services. Therefore, no longer justify yourself with considerations that, at this moment, when you have just been presenting, this dilluns, figures of assumptions, the feeling is absolutely different. Presuppositional availability must guarantee you, and you, just voted against some general assumptions of the State, which increased resources by 60_per_cent per dependency; that's what they're doing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.159.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, also, for positioning, has the word for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the deputy Vidal Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.160.0	Vice-President, to speak from the Escó. From this group, or this subgroup, the first one we want to express is a positive feeling for the motion presented by the Socialist Group. We think that even if you have, or if you approve, and if you make actual application of approval – that certainly, it is something that is given a few times – here we approve many motions and do not apply very much of these, obviously our people will gain great quality of life. You'd win, too, our country. We have an increase in services linked to residences; open two_1,000 new day center places; leave the ICASS agreement unaffected, which makes the 8_per_cent requirement more flexible in terms of rates, and create a new server card, specific to the big people. That said, it does not form part of the content of the motion, but it does form part of our political position. Beyond addressing the presuppositional issue, which is centrality to be able to provide social services, for us there is another element, such as guaranteeing quality social services, which is that ownership, management and provision remain one hundred_per_cent public. Without this, we cannot guarantee questions that are so simple as not to give a reality of lack of hygiene, or lack of food, or lack of health care, in some of the centers that have been privately run. And this subgroup wants to provoke another reflection. If this happens and those responsible for the departments tell us that they can't do more because they don't, we should ask ourselves: "None of this Parliament would bear that this happened to their families, why do we maintain a regulation and a system that allows this to happen every day?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.161.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Finally, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Esperança García has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.162.0	Thank you, President. I'll do the sco intervention, if I may. The truth is that on the day that we know that this government has pushed no more than 5_percent of the wage, up to 152,861,54_euros – from government to repression – as we have learned through communication media, the truth is that a young man like this we believe is very effective. And, above all, it's very positive, among other things, because Catalonia has practically 24_percent of the population that are warned and wanted; because we have a 13_percent risk of social exclusion; because we're going through thirty points of neglect on the issue of dependents, that, for a lot of the groups that are part of this government and that are giving them a raise, it's not a question of lack of funding, it's not, and it's not because the Autonomous Community of Castella and Lleó, which has better finance than Catalonia, has a rate of neglect of the 1,4, we're a 31, because this government hasn't been interested in it, nor in the past, to do strategic politics in relation to our opinions. We only have sixty thousand residences, places of residence between publics, privates and concerts, and the reality is that there are many families that do not get this place of residence, and that is to be solved. Therefore, our group, in a sense of doubt, will vote in favour of this motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.163.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the paragraph the deputy Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.164.0	Thank you, President. Quickly, Mrs. Valencia... where's Mrs. Valencia? The motion was written by me, and you know it perfectly well. Another thing is that with this certain obsession that you have to try to insert the "Sanchez" concept and agreement with the independenceists in all your interventions, of course, in the end it has been a little lost, isn't it? What bothers me a little is the cynicism of Citizens, who come here on the one hand to say that we need more places of residence, more benefits linked to residence, more spending on dependency, and, on the other hand, in Madrid you vote against general state budgets that include just that. And, on the other hand, to the lords of Republican Left, you have been ruling with the right for years, you have been ruling with the right for years, and you are applying right-wing politics at this time. If you are unable in these virtual budgets that you want to present to us, to guarantee four_ thousand places of day center and residence, four_ thousand places for all the citizens of Catalonia, what social budgets are you presenting? What's the joke? Where's the lie? It is truly sad that of all the amendments that you have tabled – of all the amendments – there is neither a single proposal, nor a willingness to agree, nor to reduce that supposed number of places, not even a model. There's nothing new. We are just witnessing death, to say the least, of social policy for the elderly in our country. You are condemning older people to be in a critical situation. And there has not been a single proposal, nor a single will on the part of the Republican Left and Junts per Catalunya, to modify not a single figure of what I requested in this motion, among other things because you do not even know how many places you will be able to put into operation in the coming years. And that's sad.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.165.0	Congressman, time's up. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] We shall then proceed to the vote on this motion. Is there a separate request for a vote? [[Pause.]] Yes, ma'am Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.166.0	We'd ask for it for blocks, if it looks good and then there's consent. A block that would be number 1, number 2, number 5 and number 6. A second block, which would be 3, 4, 4 bis, 8, 15 i 16, and remained together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.167.0	I repeat, to see if I'm saying it well and also if it fits with the landing of the rest of the groups, huh? A first serial block 1, 2, 5 and 6, for one band, and for another band 3, 4, 4 bis, 8, 15 and 16. Does it seem compatible with your vote, to the rest of the groups? Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. So, we'll vote first on these two blocks and then on the rest of the motion. Let's vote, therefore, points 1, 2, 5 and 6. The vote begins. Points 1, 2, 5 and 6 were approved by 66 votes in favour, against and 59 abstentions. Let's now vote points 3, 4, 4 bis, 8, 15 and 16. The vote begins. This bloc was approved by 66 votes to 59, with no abstentions. Let's move on, then, to vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The remainder of the vote is approved unanimously, that is, 125 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the priorities of the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families in relation to social policies]] [[302-00061/12]] And now we move to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the priorities of the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families in relation to social policies, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. In order to expose her, Mrs Marta Ribas has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.168.0	Thank you, President. Well, this young man is the proof of cotton from what social assumptions the government puts in place. We have put as parliamentary group three priorities of the gods of the commons; of the gods priorities that we have set to talk about assumptions, three are about the Department of Social Affairs and Families: childhood, guaranteed income and dependency. That's why this young man went. Childhood. Our proposal for a presupposition measure on this issue is to double the presupposition intended directly for childhood this year 2019, in order to progressively lie down in the European medium that we all say we want to assume and to absolve ourselves. Do these current €237 million double in the proposal that they have explained assumptions? No, no, Increase a mike to 288, but 300 have already been spent in 2018. It has not been spent 300gastatel 2018, according to the presupposition executed provisional of disembarkation that the same Government has just made public. At point 2 of this motion we again put this plenary to a vote, so if we want to double the direct investment in childhood. Dependence. There is a list of 18,500 people waiting for public residence, to which they already have the recognized right. We are planting 3,500 new public places this year, to reduce this waiting list. What does the government do, on this assumption that they have explained? So, assuming by dependence exactly the same as the year 2018 was spent, but with zero_euros for nine seats; with zero_euros for concertation, too, of seats. You will have to vote, therefore, on this proposal from us, at point 8 of this motion. Certainly, the point made by the Republican and Juntas Parliamentary Group to us for Catalonia at this point 8 of the motion is that we are not talking about the assumptions of 2019, that they are telling me, and that, moreover, literally, we are following the planned territorial programming of 2020, 2023 and according to the availability of the assumptions. Or, I translate, you say to the 18,500 people who are already waiting for a place of residence, because they have a right, and to those who wander, who are waiting three or four years longer, they are optimistic. That's what they say in this song. Guaranteed income from citizenship. The reality is that of the 112,000 people who would benefit from guaranteed income, according to the government's figures, currently in Catalonia, only five thousand are we beneficiaries, the rest are people who were already receiving PIRMI or people who were already receiving supplements of low pensions. We propose to increase the guaranteed income of citizens by 200_million extra for this year 2019, to lie down at those 500_million that the same government calculated would cost the guaranteed income of citizens while we were drafting the law in this Parliament. Make an increment? Yes, but 80_million, very far from the 200_million externals that we have proposed. In total, they reach 379, a lot of the 500_million that the same government had calculated to slow down to pay the guaranteed income of citizens. At point 5 of the motion, they will vote whether or not these 200_millions will fall outside to secure citizenship. Of course, that's what they're doing to us. The guaranteed income of citizenship is a subjective right? Yes, but I think the assumptions must be minimally realistic and, if what we want is to increase the number of people who receive the guaranteed income from citizenship, the game should be increasing. Don't give us the right subject excuse so we don't increase this game. Conclusion.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mirin, no childhood, no dependency, no guaranteed income of citizenship do not pass the cotton test. He told us the Vice President and the Economy, on the press wheel of dilluns..., made a phrase like that: "Perhaps the opposition will not be up and the eyes will be covered before the social needs of the country. Miri, Mr. Aragonès, is not to hear..., covering the eyes before the needs of the country is not to hear that childhood, dependence and guaranteed citizenship are not the priorities that Catalonia places in Comú We can negotiate assumptions, are the priorities of the people, are the priorities of a country with a_third child poverty, with 18,500 people with right of residence and without place and the thousands of families who live with fewer entries than 570_euros per month, which is the CIHR of Catalonia, certainly frozen since the year 2010. Don't threaten us. And not to us, do not threaten this city saying that Catalonia can be two or three years more without new assumptions. They do, that with this threat they made to the press wheel what they tell them is that these people have been waiting for...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.169.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.170.0	...two or three years to respond to these vital needs? A shame. ( Some applause.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.171.0	To defend the papers presented, it has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.172.0	Good morning, everyone. Today we are faced with a motion of those we call ‘Savanites, and we understand that this is the case because when we talk about the priorities that the Department of Labour i Afers Socials should have, more and more issues are being added. Because this government doesn't stick to the water and the Social Affairs Council is making water everywhere. And it's normal to put a lot of themes on the table. This motion reflects many of the needs that we have already called for from my parliamentary group in our motion on social unprotectiveness, to which this Government has submitted to us, although I find that I lack some urgency regarding disability, for example, which is not mentioned, or on the funds for the fight against macho violence, which the Government intends to cut again, as we have seen in the documentation they have put forward on the next budgets. But, in general, this motion does not cease to be a repetition of priority needs that many groups have been demanding for a long time, and that from Citizens we do not know what the Government expects to implement. And in the government, then, they live very well without stick to the water, and now even want to raise their salary. What an insult and an aggravation, with regard to those poor, part-time workers who do not want to help by preventing them from accessing guaranteed income. And they sit there, in their seats, looking like they haven't broken a plate in their lives, with those victimist speeches they use, but the real victims in Catalonia are the dependent people who have been on a waiting list for a benefit or a remedy for years. Many of them die waiting for help, as we have seen this morning: 41_million_euros that stopped paying those people, so that the counselor comes here to say that they are small and put the family members to stop to collect. He raises the salary, counselor, who has earned it with the effort that puts him to defend the indefensible. Victims are also workers of residential and child protection systems, who are abandoned by the Generalitat, forced to work in very precarious situations due to the lack of updating of the Social Services Portfolio, among others. Or victims are also those boys and girls who have their future mortgage because equal opportunities in children are not being ensured in Catalonia. In short, victims of a government that can only blame the whole world for the consequences of its mismanagement, its paralysis, and victims of a government that has renounced the management of this autonomous community, abandoning all Catalans with it. We are going to vote in favour of the whole motion, obviously, because it does not stop insisting on what we have been demanding for a long time since Citizens, for example with the creation of the committee for the elderly that we are promoting, to focus on the need to invest in policies that ensure the dignity of our elders, or also with the recent Children's Plenary, which was held at the request of Citizens, in which hundreds of measures were adopted to ensure equal opportunities for children or to improve the protection system that the Government has once again passed through the fork, and that probably that range of measures that were adopted at the Children's Plenary, for it will have ended up making a bird or used as a foot for a table unseen in some constellation. And it's just that it's okay to take people's hair. We have before us a motion full of measures that have been introduced and approved and I have already lost count of the times. These measures are indeed a democratic mandate that has gone through endlessly. But not, for the Government, the democratic mandate is to create that courtship republic in which they can camp in its width without being controlled by anyone, the 3 per cent republic or the republic where some can profit from the child protection system. And that is precisely what our amendments were about: to avoid what we suspected to have happened to the child protection system, where some had created parallel structures to drain subsidies that should go to the protection of children under their care; amendments that were aimed at monitoring and providing for transparency in the care centres, with transparent accountability. Because the centers that are doing things right are not afraid to publish the accounts; however, the Government seems to be afraid to be forced to publish the accounts of some center. We regret that our amendments have not been accepted, Mrs Ribas. I understand that it must be hard for the Commu Puer group that the research that is currently conducting justice in relation to DGAIA grants and contracts goes back to the time of the tripartite, as Initiative was part of it. I understand it's not easy, but, please, let's not go back to the infamous Maragall era and 3 percent, in which the socialists, faced with the threat of Arthur Mas, squatted their heads and shut up, because they had a lot to lose. Because by then Catalans could have saved themselves a lot of disgust and especially a lot of money, if there had been brave politicians to pull out of the blanket. Gentlemen of Podemos, do not make the same mistake, you are still in time to rectify. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.173.0	On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marta Vilalta has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.174.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, all of you. We thank and celebrate the motion presented for the company Marta Ribas, to be able to debate the priority themes of the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families, which they certainly possess and want to pose – and this is the compromise also of the Government and our parliamentary group – the people at the center, at the center of the public policies that are deployed to our country. And, as you know and as I say, that's what he does, what he's committed to doing to this government, working for equal opportunities, working to achieve social justice and dignity for all people in our country. And we have done so too, and we are addressing this motion, this proposal that we are in favour of from the Party of Catalonia in Comú Pode, we are taking it from our parliamentary group, the Parliamentary Group Republic, from the rigour and responsibility with which we believe we should address the deployment of public policies that directly affect the people of our country; defending what we want, but defending what is also possible, and how we do it to make it possible, to what we want, and not making promises that they cannot be fulfilled immediately, but seeking the way they can do it, and therefore not making proposals that sometimes, therefore, cannot be completed or that are imprecise or lacking in reality or truth. And, therefore, what we don't want is cheating. And we think we can say it and we have to make it clear. In many of the points that present us – and certainly three key ideas of this motion were identified: policies for childhood, guaranteed citizenship and dependence – in many of these three areas it refers to the assumptions of the Generality 2019, which will then be explained, which today have already begun to be debated and which you know and your group know, because you have made a few meetings with the government in this sense in order to be able to address those priorities: an increase in spending around 1,700_million plus, three_each_four euros of these assumptions destined for social policies to ensure this quality in public service and to end up with these shortcuts that we accumulate. These are the assumptions that we have on the table presented by the Government, that they are working on them, that you ask a lot of the parties associated with these assumptions, but do not think they will vote. So this is an incongruity. Not only do they not think they are voting and criticizing them, but they also rose from the table when we were negotiating them and they can agree on all these questions that we are now presenting here, in this young man, in the framework of Parliament. Therefore, we also ask for and place emphasis on responsibility, on the co-responsibility of all groups in this chamber. And what we don't want, I say, is cheating. Ask for more and more money, and more games and more reversal, but they're disconcerting how we do it and how we can make these better ones possible. It's a legitimate position, but we think it's cheating. We, in conclusion, share a great deal of the globality of the demands made, and that is reflected in the favorable vote in good part of the points. Obviously, we are in favour of investing more in childhood policies, of reviewing the system of child protection, as is already being done with representatives of the sectors; of deploying the strategy of gathering and including the young person who emigrates alone, a topic in which he is already working and driving the Government. We are in favour of increasing the public charges paid to the dependency services in order to dignify this sector, of course, and so it has also begun to be addressed. We are in favour of reviewing staff ratios. And also if you keep doing the job inspection work, the job inspection, doing the inspections you're looking for, strengthening them when you need them and doing what you always do, without notice. We are in favour of ensuring that incomplying undertakings cannot be awarded, of course, as we believe it should be, and so the Government will and will do so. Allow an element in the case of guaranteed citizenship income, because this is – you said so too – a subject right, it is a subject right. Therefore, the Government must guarantee, guarantee and guarantee that all persons who have the right, who have the right to have, to perceive the guaranteed income of citizenship, the perception, the rebin, regardless of the presumption, regardless of what we have approved, because this is a subjective right. And, therefore, it is a priority of the Government, as it is of our parliamentary group, as I believe it is of the total number of Members and Members of this House, that this is a right that is recognised, that is done; not in 200_million more, but in what is needed, in what is needed. It's a subjective right, and this is the government's priority, and this is the government's commitment; not in 1_million, in 2, in 3: in what you need, because citizenship is right. And I think that's a good thing to do. There will be some of the other points to which we cannot support, in line with the fact that it is not possible to do so immediately, at the same time as the presuppositional availabilities, but that we will continue to compromise to do so. Because when we talk about childhood, guaranteed income...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.175.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.176.0	...or dependence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.177.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.178.0	... – I finish, President – it is more necessary to keep all the tools and resources of a state; more than ever, when we talk about people...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.179.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.180.0	...and that's why we're working. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.181.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the word Mrs Saloua Laouaji.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.182.0	Hello, good morning. Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillors, workers and guests, before I begin my intervention on the position of my parliamentary group, Junts per Catalunya, in relation to the Movement following the question to the Government on the priorities of the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families in relation to social policies, I would like to express my support and solidarity with our companies and companies that are exposed on these days to an unjust judge, who do not correspond to the democracy of the 21st century or to the will of the people to decide on their future, according to the International Covenant on Human Rights and the United Nations. Well, back to the subject of youth, we can't talk about social policies without social rights, social justice, equality, equity and dignity. In fact, social policies must not seek only the redistribution of resources, but must become a mechanism to explicitly materialise the social and economic rights of the citizenry and to reduce the levels of exclusion, the conditions of vulnerability and social risk to which large particular groups of our citizenry are exposed. And, in relation to the different points of the motion, the fact that Comú's partner We may not have accepted the points 3, 4 and 11, but we share positions in relation to priorities. We, like Juntes for Catalonia and the Government, also have these priorities in the field of social policies, because we share the objectives that consist of the dignity of the citizens of our country. And we would like to update the IRSC, as they propose in their motion, to increase direct reversal – not just doubling, but doubling – childhood and family policies. Obviously, we would also like to ensure the deployment of the strategy of gathering and including young exiles who immigrate alone. And in the same way we would also like to increase resources for guaranteed citizenship income and have been able to implement it immediately, instead of gradually. As I suppose you should assume, we would also like to be able to treat people in situations of dependency and their families as well as to promote personal autonomy. But it turns out we have many limitations, resources are not unlimited. We are convinced that we need to invest in social policies for ethical reasons, because we can't leave anyone behind, because we all have to have the same rights and opportunities; but also because the more socially cohesive and less unequal societies are economically, institutionally, structurally more efficient. More cohesion, less inequality, is more progress in a broad sense. In an individual and collective sense, it is also stronger than democracy, rights and human rights. Above all, we could say that equality is the guarantee of the good functioning of a society, according to researcher Richard Wilkinson, who shows that societies with less inequality are those that enjoy less social conflict. A greater egalitarianism not only benefits the lower classes, but also makes them higher than a society that enjoys better standards of life. Obviously, we want to take care of the best way, therefore, of the need of people and, above all, of those who find themselves in more vulnerable situations, reduce inequality, achieve equal opportunities. You know, Congresswoman? The Government of Catalonia has negotiated so many times and has always met a wall, which we are already tired of, and so I say, that the Government of Catalonia would be better off if we had the added tools, the resources that we ourselves generate, and the regulatory capacity to distribute them as we see fit for everyone's benefit. And this would entail an important fiscal gain in our assumption, which could contribute to increasing the benefit of all the citizens of Catalonia, especially in the field of social policy. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.183.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Raúl Moreno has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.184.0	Thank you, President. This young man who presents Catalonia to us in Comú We can go a long way in the line of what we have presented to the beginning of this session; he speaks of other fears that we do not talk about but that we have approved in this Parliament on repeated occasions, such as the update of the IRSC, if we consider that he is just as poor as he was in the year 2010. We've been through the worst crisis of our country's recent history, and Catalonia's sufficiency income index continues to feel the same, as if you haven't been king. A small change has been enough because a lot of people can get into many social services. Therefore, the government, this and the former, continues to pose a barrier because it accesses people with less returns to benefits, to the most social assumptions of history. Childhood: we're the same, the same, the same. There is nothing new about these virtual assumptions, which certainly do not present the assumptions today. I am saying this because we may also have to make it clear: today we are not presenting the assumptions, today we are talking about it because the opposition has wanted the president to come here to talk about assumptions. I'm saying that because there's a fundamental difference in this subject. So, in childhood, we'll be exactly the same. The issue of the committee of the protection system seems good to us, especially if it is made up of professionals, that is to say, let us leave ourselves with history, we will not make the new model of protection, we can make contributions, but it must be done by the people who know it and who know it. And, therefore, I welcome the contribution. Dependency, what's said: more places, more resources, less times... the one we were talking about just before, right? It's to say, here, or it's a reflection on what is really the service we're giving to the big people and what's the management that we're doing to Catalonia in the addiction sector or we're still having a problem. I mean, we're not at the top of all Spain because we're not at the top of all Spain because Madrid doesn't pay, because it doesn't pay Catalonia or the rest of the autonomous communities. And when you pay, you vote against the assumptions... so we're exactly the same. Therefore, there are other communities that do so and not this, among other things surely because it is not much... for the work, as it is said, of being able to solve the problem. Because we're here today and you've been unable to say how many places you're committed to opening day center, residence..., you've been unable to concreteize what it is that you're doing in your own deutero-months in Catalonia. And that's a big one, an example of the loss of the north of this ship without any direction represented by the Government of the Government of Catalonia. Please, with the issue of guaranteed citizenship income... It's a subject right – it's a subject right – that doesn't go on the line or is, let's say, conditional on the presuppositional availability. All right. But that's not the guaranteed income problem anymore. The problem of guaranteed income is no longer the money, there are people who can't get in, there are people who ask and are, seven months waiting for an answer. And when they give him the answer, even this answer doesn't even serve so much to make the appeal. It's just that there are people who are going through a lot, and you already see that guaranteed citizenship income is not the answer to their needs. And that's not what came out of this Parliament. That only five thousand people in a year and a half could benefit from guaranteed citizenship income, is this also the most social assumption? Is this also the most social policy that can be made by Catalonia? It's a disaster. And it's a big deal. It's a shame that we're still incapable and that this government is unable to solve issues that they carry years in this country, complicate people's lives – complicate people's lives. This year, if we're lucky, we'll have extended assumptions for 2017. You will say again that they are the most social of history, that they are the milk for Catalonia..., we will not miss anything. It is, frankly, an exercise of cynicism and lack of concern for the real problems of the people. You have let go of more than 3,600_million euros, if the sum is all, for the keystroke and now you are here telling us, first, that we are making cards to the King, when we are asking for four_ thousand, of the empty two thousand places that you have emptied – that you have emptied – your governments. And that's making letter to the King? I think it's a matter of responsibility and knowing where the problems are and where the solutions are. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.185.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is now the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.186.0	President, to speak from the Escó. This young man, you have as his title "Priorities of the Department of Work, and we, from the CUP Group, want to demand an absolute priority to the department, which goes so far as to be absolutely curious about not violating the rights of workers and workers, and explain what we are talking about. There is a call for vacancies of workers and metro workers where the central petition is withdrawn from asbestos and action on asbestos to the metro of the city of Barcelona. And the answer that the department gives is minimal services that are absolutely illegal, that look to contain the vagaries and that obviously violate the law of speech to vagaries. Therefore, in its priorities, it must always not violate fundamental rights and less a right to a collection such as the right to a vacancy. On the material contents of the present motion. We agree with the update of the sufficiency income indicator, we absolutely agree with doubling the direct reversal on infancy, we agree with what is on the guaranteed income, but we want to make a couple of appreciations. The first, that the increase of 200_millions may be insufficient; we agree, but it may be insufficient. And the second, asking, in relation to the resolutions, even to the silence administered, two months to make it effective, so, look, if they want to guarantee a right subject and a silence administered positively, the obligation of the Administration must be immediate, more than obviously we find good will in the motion that is made by the group of commons. Also the reference to ensuring that the regulation will not restrict the law, but as you know, and I refer to the proposed group, and this has even been transferred to the attachments to the regulation; the regulation assumes that the guaranteed income law is contained in the law of citizenship. As far as dependency is concerned, the second part of the motion. We are also in agreement with the 3,500 seats that they put up, even with the issue of tariffs, even though we already know that, and we will not get tired of explaining it, we think that it has to be done with private management; just as with reviewing the agreements, strengthening the agreements and ensuring that the companies that do not comply or that make heavy breaches of the contract obviously cannot be resubmitted. This should be incorporated, and we have already stated in some committee, in all the departures that this is an essential element of the contract, the incompliments, in order to be able to directly extinguish the contracts and not to compensate absolutely nothing; on the contrary, to file a claim for damages and damages because the companies pay for what are incompliments. If we have not said so expressly, let us take advantage of it now, obviously, with this content we will vote in favour of all points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.187.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs. Andrea Levy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.188.0	Thank you, President. From the seat. Well, this motion, the motion that has preceded us and the one that follows, show the good intentions of the Members of this House as a whole, because I could not imagine that any Member has no good intentions or good feelings, no matter how much Mr Torra wants to question that some Members have bad feelings in this House and stand up as moral authority. But, finally, I want to think that it is true, that we Members of this House here have good will. And good will to put social policy at the centre of the debate and the priorities of the action of this parliamentary chamber and, therefore, to exercise it as well, to motivate the Government of the Generalitat to exercise it. But, of course, it's not the same preaching as giving wheat – it's not the same. And, therefore, it is not the same to have good will to exercise them. Therefore, it cannot be the same that we come here to express to the Government of the Generalitat our interest that social policy is a priority and that the Government of the Generalitat does not come to this plenary to present to us a budget and to defend a budget that certainly justifies this social policy. Because the problem for which we can be here in a barren debate and in an unfounded debate on social policies that affects dependence, the great people, youth, children, all this which should be at the heart of the debate, is that you have robbed us of the debate by not coming to defend any budget. They cannot therefore say that they have an interest, that they have priority over a real social policy that is at the heart of this Government, because they are not going to defend any budget. They have hidden it and, therefore, cannot say that they are a social government or that they have no social budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.189.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To pronounce on the papers, finally has the word Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.190.0	Well, obviously this young man's missing things. It is a motion on our three priorities, which we have put, suppositions, respect this department and, therefore, many more, sure. But we went to prioritize three of them. In this sense, we did not want to incorporate ourselves, much so that we agree, Mrs. De la Calle, with light and stenographers with all the management of the DGAIA, certainly always managed by converging or Republican Left. Look, three priorities that we have put very clearly, that are three very clear points of this motion, points 2, 5 and 8, and that in that table of which we have raised, Mrs Vilalta, we say: "No, zero places of dependence on one of the priorities; "No, there is no increase in childhood, in the other of the priorities there is the same assumption that what has already been spent on 2018, and "No, there will not be an increase of 200_million euros for the guaranteed income of citizenship, there will be an absolutely insufficient increase in the number of people who are responsible for the guaranteed income of citizenship, that I may suppose that in the end we think that it is the objective. Because that's what they've done in law enforcement, and that's what they're doing in the draft regulation: restrict how many people can access guaranteed citizenship income. Is it easy to complete the three priorities that we have? No, no, You're right, Mr. El Garbhi, resources are not unlimited, but clearly they are insufficient when this government closes the door to more resources on the part of the State when there is this option with general assumptions of the State and closes the door to leaving these subsidy policies to the great returns and to the great capitals to our country that has been exercised over the last few years. And that's what this government is doing: closing the door to a fair tax reform in Catalonia, closing the door to more tickets by the state. Look, do yourselves a favor to become home, to think about who they're running for, and if they're really not able to make a proposal for a little decent month for these vulnerable people. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] who needs a government that governments, does not entangle themselves or defend themselves...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.191.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.192.0	...a protoproject of assumptions in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.193.0	Congresswoman... We called for a vote. [[Pause. Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Say'm, Miss Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.194.0	To ask for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.195.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.196.0	As we did before, if it looks good, there would be one block, which would be the number 1, 5, 6, 8 and 9.b; another, the number 2, also separately, and the rest, together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.197.0	All right. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.198.0	Point 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.199.0	All right, so, if it seems to them, we'll vote first place on block 1, 5, 6, 8, 9.b, point 2 apart, point 4 apart, and then the rest of the vote. So let's vote on this first block, including points 1, 5, 6, 8 and 9.b. The vote begins. These points, 1, 5, 6, 8 and 9b, have been approved by 66 votes in favour, 59 against and no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote point two. The vote begins. This point 2_has been approved by 66 votes in favour, against and 59 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number four. The vote begins. The fourth point was approved unanimously, 124 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved: 125 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into youth policies]] [[302-00064/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on youth policies presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, Mr. David Bertran has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.200.0	Thank you, President. The young people we are, deputies and deputies, who have suffered the most from the economic crisis of the past few years, and who have not heard the most from us. We have seen how hard and precarious work has affected us more than in another generation, we have seen how our opportunities for emancipation have grown substantially and we see with concern those who want to create a family we have to postpone our decision until beyond thirty. Catalonia, like the autonomous community, had many mechanisms that could have been used and helped to solve these problems if the Government had wanted to develop public policies in this sense. But he didn't. His priority, as we all know, has been to process for secession and to let go of what should have been his task of ruling throughout the city. In order to improve and improve our situation on the labour market, we wanted to make an impact on various aspects. Among them there would be to achieve that the Youth Guarantee Programme functioned optimally, which now does not happen, or that it is also facilitated by undertaking through the granting of credit or through the social promotion of this option. But if we want to tackle the problem of youth unemployment, we need to look at and act on the education system, which is where the workers of the future are to be formed, and this is where we have seen that there is the most important gap for what makes three elements that are key. One of them, the main one, is English. The domain of this language should not be a privilege, as it is until now, only at the abstention of those who have more income. We think that this is a fundamental element for equal opportunities in a globalized world, and therefore we believe that it should be used as a vehicle language in all compulsory education, just as it should also be the castle. The other elements which are clearly lacking in the education system and which are interlinked are the systematization of the figure of the work counsellor, as well as the promotion and increase of vocational training studies. Now only a few educational centres that voluntarily choose to contract the figure of the professional guide have these. In our opinion, this technician should be present to all secondary schools in a structural way to promote that teenagers triage their future according to their talents and according to the situation of the labor market. For what he does to the FP, we think that the government has completely abandoned his promotion, and he shows that it is more than four years ago that, after the adoption of the 2015 law, he should have developed this agency than he was in charge of improving our professional training. The percentage of students who opt for this training is clearly decompensated for what the labour market demands, and especially if it is compared to what is the European Union's joint venture. The companies have also communicated this to us and, in fact, they talk to us about the willingness to involve themselves in a major measure through the dual FP. This count, at these times, with a few numbers of students still worse respect the total and this harms us hard, because it is shown that dual vocational training guarantees us more contract and more remuneration. We ask that for course 24-25 a 50_per_cent xifra be set, much larger than the current xifra. For what it does to emancipation, young people find that we do not only have a lack of entrances, but we also have many difficulties for what it makes to get the habitation, and in this we see that the Government of the Generality has also missed for what it does to its obligations, because, in fact, the Government of the Generality has skills in this sense, and we see that the public park at these times is in a 2-percent of the total. We see that 2017 did not make any public promotion and we see that 2018 continued to come only in private hands to make cash. We have decided to create this public park to guide you in making it easier for young people to access it. There are many other problems that affect young people and it would be difficult to develop them in the short time I have. One of them, obviously, is that of gender inequality, which is a scourge that still persists in our society and against which we have to fight and for which it also does, with special incidence, in the field of social networks. Similarly, there are fears that I would not want to leave, as they are of mental salvation, as are addictions, as is juvenile suicide, which is a phenomenon that makes every five days there is a young person who has taken his life. And, finally, I would also like to transmit our reunion to groups of young people like the Catalan Civil Society or It's over! , which suffer a systemic assimilation and aggression by separatist and totalitarian groups that were suspending freedom of expression there where it should be sacred: at university. They will always find us condemning this type of anti-democratic action, which, unfortunately, is seen as empressed or even defended by secessionism. Ours is a project of future based on the equal rights of all citizens and which guarantees equal opportunities in a globalized world so that we, young people, can develop professionally and vitally, and in this way contribute to the well-being of all past generations, who have worked hard so that we are the better prepared generation of history. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.201.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. It has the word, now, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units for Progress, the deputy Pol Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.202.0	Thank you, President. Today Ciutadans brings us a young man to debate: a long man, a list of measures to improve the situation of young people in Catalonia, a list that, as I say, is extensive, varied, some superficial theme but which, in general, seems uncertain to us. There are measures on housing, on work, on FP, on scholarships, all of them vital themes for the youth of this country. And they all fear frankly better for the Government of Catalonia. Here we have seen how taxes have increased, the lodgers have disbanded, the scholarships have decreased and the youth has disbanded, and with a job precariousness that dominates the labor market. An explosive cocktail that has set fire to a generation, which today is still struggling – with great force – to not open itself in a post-crisis context. The proposal we are debating today is extensive, as I said, but it is obvious that important issues such as the return of young immigrants or the reduction of university fees are important. Frankly, we think it's more appropriate to make focused motions than disperse motions, because we run the risk of leaving things out. But we don't waste time in formats: let's go to the bottom of the question. The young person highlights the scholarships as a trunk element for the students, and proposes to increase them. Of course, we agree. We have said this many times in this Parliament, and today we are going to say it again: we believe that burrows are the pal to ensure equality in access to training. But we can't leave our surprise in seeing Ciutadans' priorities in one place or another: today we ask here to increase the scholarships – perfect, great, we share it –; not even fifteen days ago they voted against increasing a 10_per_cent of the scholarships matches at the Congress, as collected the premise of the State. O against EUR 100 million for books of text. They are surprised that a proposal that is good here is not good in Madrid as well. You also propose some measure – of little depth – on labor issues. Surely, we find the main obstacle to youth emancipation in the trobemel market – we would all agree – and it requires substantive measures to combat the current situation. And once again, we find a new inconsistency in Ciutadans: not to go too far to remember how they came together with the extreme right against a government that has approved more than three_ thousand professional advisors for work offices– three_ thousand advisors. This is vital to ensure that young people are individually educated and have an individual follow-up. And we know that this individual follow-up is a guarantee of success in a very complex working world. Like they didn't care about a government that put a youth action plan in the way – that's not where the government of the state did it. They are also bringing us proposals on housing, and we are also celebrating it, but the record that they voted against a premise that included €140 million in aid to the eligible young people. They also make their proposals from the National Council of Youth in Masclist Violence to the Networks, and we celebrate and share it, but it is also curious that today the Citizens, who always present the message against the presumption for the National Council of Youth, take advantage of their ideas as good – if not, it seems contradictory. We believe that a good way to defend young people is not to attack the entities that represent them, such as the National Youth Council. In short, we don't ask them to stop bringing proposals for young people, or much less. We're asking for consistency. The inequality suffered by young people is not solved with cosmetic measures; it is resolved with political will here and there, and with resources. We have a society where birthplace and social origin remain decisive for the future of young people – this is undeniable – and if you are given your future it will not be a way of roses. And, obviously, if we talk about the inequality of the man-woman – and I feel a lot about Congressman Bertran – I don't know what credibility you can have after going out of the hands of the extreme right, a party that says publicly that it wants to repeal the law of gender-based violence, eliminate aneurysm or hunt witchcraft on the political leaders of the management of male violence; an extreme right with which they already govern and with which we don't want to see their alliance expand. Wait till you can't get it. It would be the best measure you could take in this country to keep the best for your future young people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.203.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rut Ribas has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.204.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Young people's policies stand out from a very wide range, and we believe that we need to take into account a great diversity of elements to ensure the full development of young people and to ensure all our opportunities and needs. That is why, from the outset, we consider that this young man has tried to take into account many factors, and which we celebrate. All youth policies must assume the emancipation of young people, and this real emancipation will only be achieved by introducing the youth perspective to all departments. But now the young man continues to paint the consequences of the economic crisis of two years ago, with temporary and precarious contracts, and we can't go through many hours working under very low, also as a result of the labor reform that should already be repealed. Calen active employment policies that allow to consolidate a structure in our labor market. Young people cannot feel expelled from the country because of lack of opportunity, and we must also combat speculations against working classes in precariousness. We need to guarantee employment, decent working conditions for young people and secure our rights. This is why it is necessary to continue prioritizing programs such as the Youth Guarantee, which gives coverage to the most disadvantaged youth population to link it to the labour market and facilitates the first job experiences to young people in training. Therefore, we will support the proposals made by this young man, which guarantee a generational replenishment, an improvement in employability and an intensification of the youth guarantee. We also bet on the dignity of the FP and turn it into a balanced and prestigious option. On the other hand, one of the main difficulties that does not guarantee our emancipation is not being able to get out of the parental nucleus due to economic issues. It is necessary to look for legal mechanisms to ensure accessible housing, but at times we have to stop making biases and selling smoke. We are talking about a very important problem where we need to make real policies and face up to the great tempers, which use housing as speculation and not as a vital right. That is why in this case we regret that we could not reach an agreement with the proposed group and that we could not accept or deal with the items we proposed. With regard to the point of salvation, I trust that all of us here today are aware that it is necessary to eradicate the social stigma of mental and emotional salvation, and that it sometimes leads to suicide, which is the first cause of death among young people. So, you will find us on the way to break the taboo, improve the follow-up to the aid space and continue to strengthen the therapeutic units, but in this case the integral plan of prevention, detection and action, as proposed by the motion, is also already developed. As for the proposals the young person brings respect to universities, only 28_percent of the scientific research staff in the world are women. While women represent a 54_percent of the university student collection, engineering, for example, only represent a 25_percent. That's why I need to promote the feminization of degrees of science and technology to end this difference between women and men in these professional camps. And, on the other hand, we believe that respecting the autonomy of universities around agreements with other foreign universities. To end this block, all the support for the concept that the university must be a place of respect, freedom of expression and thought. But they're not trying to pull us out and say it politically with an argument framed in the speech of hate because they won't get it. Whenever a specific case of rebreeding has occurred and the civic values have been exceeded, it has been condemned by academic institutions and authorities. Another point is to eradicate male violence and gender inequalities, unfortunately very present among young people. That's why we'll give support to the point the motion proposed, also after we've reached an agreement. But the point where we don't support is that of the young extolls, simply because what is requested today is already up-to-date and falling asleep. For what it does to public transport, we bet for T-Mobility, always looking in the inn that public transport adapts to the economic situations of all young people in the country. And, finally, the typical point of the proposing group. We believe that there is enough, because in the classrooms, in the common space and in the youth, freedom of thought, collective consciousness and the development of critical experience has always been guaranteed and all opinions have always been respected. And I'm really sorry that I'm being manipulated and that it makes it difficult to fully develop the essence of all these spaces. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.205.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Mònica Sales has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.206.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, counsel, deputies, deputies, we are in front of a subsequent motion from Ciutadans, a motion containing points and a total of twenty-seen subpoints. Synthetizing it is complicated, because we talk about professional training, university, work, entrepreneurs, autonomists and companies, health, housing, gender equality, young extutes, public service, public transport and neutrality. This multi-topic movement shows that young people are a sector of our people with diverse concerns, with diverse needs, with diverse realities and that we need to age for them and for their day to day, for their presence as young people and for their future as young people. Young people's policies are clearly cross-cutting and a young person like this is a manifesto. Together with the Republican Group and Congresswoman Rut Ribas, with whom it is always a pleasure to work, we have presented a set of items that have allowed us to reach agreement with Congressman Bertran, to whom I thank the whole and the work done, which allow us to work for young people and young people. If we talk about vocational training, it is clear from the government that it is better to improve and enhance it; that is why it was constituted the Rector Commission for Vocational Training and Qualification, as the governing body for strategic planning and evaluation of policies of the vocational training and qualification system, and to advance in the deployment of the FP Law. For what it does to university, internationalization and intercance of PDI, NOT and student: impulse of scientific vocations and, clearly, although we have not reached an agreement, consider the university as a place where freedom of expression and thought is respected, and where there is debate of opinions, for various that follow. If we talk about work, entrepreneurs, self-employed people and business, we want, for example, to continue to drive initiatives to reduce the youth's rate of maturity, to work together between seniors and young entrepreneurs, to create a generational replenishment program with self-employed people to retire. As for health, address the issue of suicide, improving intervention programmes; deploying the Action Programme against Depression and Suicide Prevention, as well as working with young people who have addictions, with an integral plan. In relation to housing, the Government has to approve in short the sectoral territorial housing plan and there is a commitment to increase the budget earmarked for public housing policies, once the correction of the fiscal deficit and the recovery of State transfers in the framework of the State Housing Plan has been consolidated. In equality of kind, most committed to encouraging it, they take as reference the guide of the National Council of Youth of Catalonia, Unfollow to the masclist rapes, to make it diffuse and make awareness of social networks, to raise awareness and encourage respect and coexistence between men and women. For what it does to the public office, compromise to reduce, whenever the state regulations allow, the percentage of public service employees, especially to the teaching camps, sanitation, administration and services and legal administration, to facilitate access to the young to the public office. In public transport, we will continue to work in the best of reduced rates, while the T-Mobility does not come into operation, above all to protect collections as young people. And, lastly, in the field of neutrality, they compromise to continue to guarantee – because we already do and will repeat – respect for the freedom of thought and awareness of young people in those collective activities in the common classrooms and spaces of schools, institutes and other youth training and education centres. And, after this attempt to summarize the motion, we also need to be aware of other concerns that young people have and that, like politicians, we need to be able to give them answers, especially through the example. I'm sure our young people want to live in a democratic society that goes through their rights. I'm sure our young people want politics and not provocation. I'm sure our young people want us to dignify this hemisphere and not turn it into a brush TV show. Surely our young people want policies that are sensitive and humane to others, when, for example, someone expresses here, in an emotional way, a witness in the first person who is the result of an episode of sexual violence. I'm sure our young people want policies that make policies and not policies that make judgments, the same way they want judgments that make judgments and not judgments that make policies. And I'm sure, but I'm sure, that our young people want politics to solve political conflicts, because that's why we're their elected representatives. I'm sure our young people see it in the opportune and non-threat ballots, and I'm sure our young people see it in the smile of hope and in the violence of repression. We work, then, and we work for the young people who are present and for the young people who are future and for all these little things that we are growing up and that some day these young people will be the ones who are now taking care of us and now we are worried about. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.207.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, and to fix his position, has the word, first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomão, the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.208.0	Thank you very much, President. Members and Members, talking about youth policies, today, is talking about a whole generation expelled from the welfare pact, a generation expelled from living fully in our country, as a consequence of retail policies, of two labor reforms and of policies promoting speculation with the market of logger. The problem is no longer cynicism with which not so many years ago a counselor from this government sent young people to London to serve coffee, the problem is that the later governments and the current governments have taken on those words and policies as their own. The number of Catalans has doubled to foreign in less than two years, most of whom are young. Every year there are younger people who are forced to take the path of forced exile. Any rere year, from the beginning of retail policies has driven young people out of Catalonia. Today, there are 77,000 young people under thirty-four years of age in foreign countries, twice as many years ago, and today, surely, they are no longer news and their march has so much impact on communication media. Precisely because of this, I wanted to start my intervention today, saying that it is unworthy that the government has not made policies to return a national bet and that it has built a Catalonia where those who have been forced to leave do not have the right to return. It may be a lost decade. We need to build a country where we understand young people, our expectations and, above all, our right to a dignified life. And the question we have to ask ourselves today is why they emigrate. One of the four young people is in the middle of the day; half of the young people, with temporary contracts; 40 per cent of the contracts with a duration of less than or equal to one month; the young people between twenty-five and thirty years have to chain between four and five contracts in order to be able to work one year in a row and 20 per cent of the young people who work under the shadow of poverty, which implies an unprecedented wage devaluation in the history of our country. This is the pa of every day after two labor reforms, they have become a model of success for the young people of this country and, at work precariousness, we have to add, like no, the expulsion of young people from the Catalan public universities, I said three weeks ago and I say here another time, two thousand young people expelled from the right to study in a public university, since the 2011 tax increase. It's a shame, and I'd have to put a shame on them to hold social assumptions when two thousand university students are expelled from our country. They have built a model of country that expels young people into alienation, that condemns them to job insecurity, that denies them the right to study in a public university and, above all, that denies them the right to emancipation. It is especially the young people of this country who pay the price of their policies to promote speculation with the market of loggering and their nil policies to promote public housing. Today, more than half of the young people between twenty-five and thirty-four years old still live with their parents; the middle of emancipation in this country is situated over twenty-nine years old; the young people of Catalonia have to allocate two thirds of their self to pay for the logger. This is the price of its housing policy, of refusing for decades to build a public park of lloger and to stop here and in Madrid to deregulate the market of lloger. We have demanded, in short, that the policies that have condemned a whole generation to live worse than their peers, that the Generalitat never sell again with propaganda assumptions that expel the young woman from this country. And, above all, take on and take advantage of the drive of society represented by our young people to transform it, representing that generation of young people who have been the protagonist of the most important civic mobilizations of these years for democratic regeneration, the defence of public services and the defence of equality policies, who have been the protagonist of these years the most important mobilizations against male violence and against patriarchy, and who are manifested this weekend – and they will follow it – to fight the climate change and to build a welfare project that does not expel anyone, nor to which they are young or who will be young here not so many years. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.209.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the words of the deputy, Ms. Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.210.0	We are talking about young people and we are announcing them now that we are not going to participate in this proposal made to us by the Ciutadans Group, because it is like a small barrier-barrier, many of the things we are very much in agreement with, but we understand that, basically, participating in this vote would be like bleaching something that you do not defend with your real votes in the day-to-day, but it is a pure make-up. It is not a country for young people that does not count on the participation of their youth in all the decision-making spaces. It is not a country for young people who only want young wards to reach the majority of the age to leave them in the background and literally in the street. It's not a country for young people to drive them out of college, make them inaccessible with economic tolls. If they care about the young people's needs, give support to the ILP for the lowering of university fees; tomorrow the gathering of signatures begins because it arrives in this Parliament, once more, the debate on the lowering of university fees. I hope that, then, we will find ourselves prioritising the needs of young people and not a private university that differentiates between those who can access, for income reasons, to the university, and those who cannot do so. Therefore, all support for this initiative. It is not a country for young people, when many of them have to emigrate to serve coffee in Berlin or Edinburgh. It is not a country for young people who have a powerful and mobilized youth association and who are repressed by the police at every demand channeled to the streets. Stop holding the young critics and dissidents. It is not a country for young people who do not put their intelligence and resources into the struggle against climate change. The rate of maturity of more than 30_per_cent..., the youth rate of more than 30_per_cent is not a randomity, nor is it the result of the voluntariness of sabbaticals or adventurous experiences, it is the consequence of years of policies of destruction of labor, of policies of retail government of the Generality, of lack of political responsibility. And no, it's not a country for young people when, today, the Mobile World Congress is looking for hostesses with a minimum height of 1.75 and I don't see anyone complaining about it, nor when the option of the future that they give are precarious days and of flexibility saving, sharing food on a bicycle. Because they are the present, not just the future, because we need rights here and now to be able to develop humanly and socially in every sphere of life. What we want is a country where young people and young people can live.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.211.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Ms. Andrea Levy has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.212.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, we are before a motion, as I said in my previous speech, loaded with goodwill. In this case, I think it is an ambitious motion, because it sets out a series of lists in which the collective of young people must have a special impact, but we are actually talking about subjects that cover the whole of society, from employment, from health, from equality or from policies that have to do with VET, education or university. I therefore reiterate the idea that I have made in my previous speech, that this whole debate is sterile if we are robbed of the main debate, which is to know where the Government of the Generalitat is going to focus, where its priorities will be in budgetary policies, because if we do not know what the money of all Catalans is going to spend on the budget the Government of the Generalitat, all these proposals, all these motions, everything that we come to propose the opposition groups in this parliamentary chamber, will remain sterile, will remain in nothing, in the void, with a maniatted government, a government that is unable to tell us what its policy is, its government action, without that presentation of the budget. The key question is therefore: will the government present the budget, yes or no? Because if we do not know what the budgetary intentions of the Government of the Generalitat are, we are going to move a message from this parliamentary chamber that we can have good intentions, that we can carry good will to this Parliament and its Members, but that the Government of the Generalitat is paralysed, that government action is paralysed and that, therefore, they are an obstacle to young people, to older people, to entrepreneurs, to those who want to take a new opportunity or who want to know whether their public services will be guaranteed. Is this Government therefore an obstacle to the Catalans? Because if so, they have only one solution: « fold.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.213.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, and to position himself on the papers, has the new word Mr David Bertran.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.214.0	Well, thank you, President. With the hope of finding consensus so that we can improve the vital conditions of all young Catalan women, we have made an effort to accept many of the points that have been presented by the Socialist Group and government groups, and which these points can bring forward. For example, the fact that the interinternship is to be reduced to public office, which is thought to be forty-thousand places, that we are the young people who are most harmed in this sense. At the UPC, I'd like to say that we, the Youth Commission, are the ones who more proposals for resolution and activity pull forward, and that if they came to the Commission, then they could prove it. We invite them to come. [[Greetings.]] As well, there have been other issues that we have not accepted, such as what it does to the issue of..., to give the government's games that have already been done enough for what it does to the treatment of addictions. We think it's not like that, that there's... well, we've proven it, that there's no update on strategic plans and there's no resources. We believe that, in any case, the tax deficit cannot be an excuse to develop a public housing park that you serve because young people can access it for social outreach. This is a demagogic element and it is an element that, well, they use matches like the UKIP, which say that it is the European Union that steals resources from us that we could be devoting to the national health system. Or they finally have this kind of magical speech, and we won't get in. And, finally, obviously, we have not accepted that it is not condemned with all of you and those who have been the total attacks on youth associations, as have been done and young Catalan Civil Society, by radical separatist groups, as have the Union of Students of the Catalan and Arran Countries. And that's what we have to say, and that's what we have to say with names and surnames. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.215.0	Thank you, Congressman. We shall proceed to the vote. [[Pol Gilbert Horcas asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.216.0	Vote separate from point 9
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.217.0	New?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.218.0	Nine.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.219.0	All right. [[Natalia Sánchez Dipp asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.220.0	President, please ask for the word for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.221.0	I think there were separate voting petitions and then I'll give him the word. [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.222.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 1.b, and another block that would group 2.d, 3.b, 4.c, 5.a, 5.b, 7.a, 9.a and 10.a.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.223.0	I should repeat them again, but a little slower, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.224.0	Perfect. The second block would group 2.d, 3.b, 4.c, 5.a, 5.b, 7.a, 9.a and 10.a.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.225.0	All right. So, for now, there are two petitions for separate votes, if not... [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Mrs. Segovia, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.226.0	Ask for a separate vote, which could be put to a block vote, on 2nd, 2.d, 3.b, 3.c and 10
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.227.0	Let's go back, let's go back. Just a little bit, please; 2nd...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.228.0	2a, 2.d, 3.b, 3.c and 10.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.229.0	I 10. All right. Any other petitions? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Is it not compatible with your petition? [[Pause.]] Therefore, we will have to vote all points separately. Or reformulate the reformulated petition we will all have to vote separately. Meanwhile, Mrs. Sànchez, I'm giving you 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.230.0	Okay. Very quickly, to the deputy of Ciutadans; not that I invite us to the youth committees. You've heard that, or I understand you can count, there are four deputies and we're on our way. And you know what? , also, about the questions that you have just criminalized, the collections of the Union of Students of the Catalan Countries and Arran, organizations that have representation of the universities, concretely the union, and that more than what they work is for the real needs of the students. For example, tax reduction. Which, for example, their youth subsidiary at the university, this group is over! , I haven't seen a single demand for tax reductions for universities.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.231.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.232.0	And I finish, President, please. Basically, they're a few branches and learners from Ciutadans, which I assume four days from now we'll see the ridiculous Waterloo, and I suppose they won't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.233.0	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.234.0	...with the money of everyone and everything you've done. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.235.0	[[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.236.0	From the block the Communs company commented, it seems to us that if they separate the 2.d from the block that we have presented we could group the votes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.237.0	2.d, from Denmark, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, all right. [[David Bertran Román asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Bertran. I understand that by allusions. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.238.0	Well, just say it's over! And young people of the Catalan Civil Society are not our subsidiaries, they are not our young people, they are young people who are independent and who do so. And it's funny that you ask for the word for allusions, when they say that Arran and the Union of Students of the Catalan Countries are not their subsidiaries and are not their young people. So it must be that they are, because if they ask for allusions, something must be seen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.239.0	All right. Let's recap. We will vote in the first place on point 1.b, 2.d – from Denmark – and then on a block with 2.b, 3.d, 4.c, 5.a, 5.b, 7.a, 9.a and 10. [[Widow's remorse.]] Don't you? [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.240.0	We have a differentiated vote of '1.b and 2.d, therefore, we cannot vote in bloc.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.241.0	I'm sorry, from the...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.242.0	From '1.b and 2.d they could not vote in bloc.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.243.0	No, no, no, I said separately, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.244.0	Ah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.245.0	1.b, for one side, 2.d, for the other, huh? [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Granados. I, as they will prove, am doing all I can to group votes because there are twenty-seen points, this young man.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.246.0	Celebrate it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.247.0	Please help me, let's say.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.248.0	We are celebrating, but we have only asked for one, separate, which is 9 and, therefore, we would ask that the blocks that we can do, we would celebrate, but the 9 that is separated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.249.0	Nine together, why do I understand that the subpoints too, huh? No, you only have one point, yes, that's right. All right, so, let's start voting, first place point 1.b– 1.b. The vote begins. Point 1.b was approved by 63 votes to two, with 58 abstentions. Let's now vote on point 2.d–2.d. The vote begins. Point 2.d was rejected by 56 votes to 61, with 6 abstentions. Let's now vote point 9 – let's vote point 9. The vote begins. Point 9 was rejected by 45 votes to 76, with no abstentions. Let's now vote on the block that groups points 2.d, 3.d, 4.c, 5.a, 5.b, 7.a and 10.a. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Yeah? I repeat again: 2.b– from Barcelona –, 3.d, 4.c, 5.a – is what I have been asked to do. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 2.d, I'm sorry. But if he's voted, the 2nd. Okay. So, we're bringing the block in. I'll take the rest of it, okay? [[Pause.]] No, Mrs. Segovia? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The 3b apart. All right. Therefore, we vote 4.c, 5.a, 5.b, 7.a and 10.a. Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. So, let's vote on these. The vote begins. This bloc was approved by 63 votes to 60, with no abstentions. Let's now vote on point 3.b– 3.b, yes? The vote begins. 3.b was rejected by 56 votes to 59, with 7 abstentions. Let's now vote on a block that makes up points 2a, 3.c and 10. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 2nd..., 2nd we voted, I'm sorry, yes. So, three and ten, yeah? [[Pause.]] 10 except for the 10th, which we just voted on, huh? Yeah? The rest of point 10. There's only one point. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So we voted on it on the 10th. Okay. Therefore, we vote 3.c. Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. The vote begins. Point 3.c was approved by 115 votes to one, with seven abstentions. And now yes, it would seem that we would already vote for the rest of the young man, yes? [[Pause.]] All right. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 122 votes to one. [[remorse of the voice]] – silence – and no abstention. We suspend the session until two-quarters of the late four. Thank you very much. [[The session is suspended at two quarters of two in the middle and seven minutes and is resumed at two quarters of four in the late and two minutes. He chairs the Speaker of Parliament, accompanied by first and second vice-presidents and secretaries first, second and third. Attend the Bureau the secretary general, the major and the late Esther Andreu and Fornos.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.250.0	Let's resume the session. [[Request for cumulative appearances of the President of the Generality to inform me of the presentation of the draft Law of Presumptions of the Generality for 2019]] [[361-00010/12, 361-00011/12 and 361-00012/12]] The next item on the agenda is the request for the President of the Generality to appear before the plenary to inform me of the state of the preliminary draft law of the Generality's assumptions for 2019. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Quiet, and please. Yeah? Keep going. Before starting this item on the order of the day, I am sure that the Board of Spokesmen agreed that points 3, 4 and 5 should be submersed in a single vote, jointly. Let us therefore proceed to the vote on these three points, on these three requests for appearances which were submitted, respectively, for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pom, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress and the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. Can these appearances, these requests for appearances be approved by consent? Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right, so these three requests for appearances are approved. These requests will be jointly substantiated with the request also made by the same President of the Generality, which we will continue to develop. [[Accumulated comparisons of the President of the Generality regarding the elaboration of the Generality assumptions for 2019]] [[350-00006/12 and 350-00007/12]] Therefore, we proceed directly to the appearance of the President of the Generality before the plenary to give, as we have said, account of the elaboration of the assumptions of the Generality for 2019. According to Rule 172 of the Rules, in the first place, therefore, the President of the Generality, the very honourable Mr Quim Torra and Pla, has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.251.0	President, Vice-President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, I have asked to appear before the plenary to give account to the parliamentary groups of the preparation of the preliminary draft of the Law of Presumables of the Government of Catalonia for 2019. As you know, this very day the vice president presented a report to the government regarding this preliminary project, and today, two days later, we appear before the chamber to account for its contents, with a sense of responsibility, transparency and dialogue. First, responsibility. Because we believe that, at a time when the economy is working well, citizens need to have some presuppositions that are eminently social, that allow us to address the set of public policies, and address, among many others, one of the great outstanding issues: reducing inequalities. And you know very well that a presuppositional extension, resulting from electoral strategies, would take away the responsibility that we all have for our citizens. Answering the main needs and needs of the Catalan society with a strong presuppositional proposal is not only an obligation of a government that feels responsible, but is also an obligation of all groups of this chamber, in an exercise of coherence, in the measure that we place ourselves in a continuous way to give a better response to these needs, already in the control sessions, already mediating the different interpellations and resolutions and motions that are appropriate. Secondly, by transparency, because the government has done its dues and the citizenry has the right to know who the proposals put forward are. All the departments of the Generality, coordinated by the Department of the Vice-President, have made a huge effort to guide public policies towards this major good, which is to have a premise oriented towards making Catalonia a country of rights and opportunities for everyone. Now, once the work is done, we think that I should make it public, explain it to the citizenry and that I can consult them, with all the details. And, in the third place, dial. These are assumptions that have wanted to be negotiated since the first moment. They weren't made in a dark room and then they gave themselves up to meet, as they went to the state level, no. Previous meetings have taken place, and then he has worked hard with those groups that have shown a willingness to get involved in the elaboration of assumptions. I'll detail them further. Today we want to certify whether there is a political will or not to reach an agreement to deal with the assumptions of the Catalonian Government for 2019 or whether, in change, electoral interests will go beyond the needs of the citizenry. We wish to reach an agreement quite soon, we are convinced that it is the best for our citizens, in their conjunction. In fact, the elaboration of these assumptions is done in a context of economic dynamism that allows us to be optimistic, moderately optimistic. In the first place, as well as a certain encouragement, we closed the year 2018 with a GDP increase of 2,6_per_cent. One tenth for the Spanish envelope and eight tenths for the Economic and Monetary Union. That means twenty-one consecutive quarters are growing, of which fourteen by over three percent. And the forecast for 2019 continues to keep these economic improvements. In exports, we've come to the maximum of history. This 2018 we've broken the historical record for eight years as a result, and regular exporting companies have also struck for six years as a result. Catalonia is an attractive economy in the eyes of the world, which makes it known as the most attractive region to invest in Southern Europe in 2018 and 2019, just as it was in 2016 and 2017. That is why, without lowering the guard in the economic sphere, we need to be able to focus on generating new opportunities and reducing their inequalities. This year 2019, we plan to close it at a rate of less than the 10_per_cent barrier, so that we can position ourselves at values similar to the 2008 year. In fact, this 2018 we have closed with a '11.5_per_cent, 3.8 points less than the Spanish medium. As I always say, we must continue to reduce the time, create occupation and, above all, age for the quality of work places. But, certainly, the best of the later years, the prospects that this year the tank per 10_per_cent makes us be, I insist, moderately optimistic. This proposal of assumptions, therefore, incorporates for the first time not only a vision of the economic context in which they have been developed, but also that they want to take into account the social context, through a_50 of indicators, which re-conclude the evolution of the social context and which will allow us to adapt our policies to a vision focused on the welfare and progress of society. I said it in the investiture speech and we repeated it in each of the interventions: our focus, our reason for being people. But before I go any further, I'd like to make an acclamation. These aren't the assumptions we'd want. We would like assumptions without the tax deficit, of 16,000_million, that each year leave and do not return. And that would make it possible to double the assumptions of the education, health, business and knowledge departments. I insist, once again, that the unbearable fiscal deficit that the Catalan citizenry endures always turns into a social deficit. Also, we would like to see a broad set of assumptions about the delleial policies that the State Government is pursuing, when, for example, it unilaterally assigns a deficit target of 0.1_per_cent for 2019, when it would be close to 0.59_per_cent, and is reserved for it the size of the deficit. This, this game from 0.1 to 0.59 represents more than 1,100_million euros, which we will not be able to allocate to policies close to Catalonia. Despite these two enormous conditions, our responsibility is to develop the best possible assumptions, those that give response to what the country needs. And that's why we're presenting a hundred_per_cent republican assumptions. And we continue to engage with parliamentary groups to develop a consensus proposal for assumptions. It is well known that the Government of Catalonia does not, at this time, have the majority support of Parliament's plenary to process and approve a bill of generality assumptions for 2019. And it is also known that, out of responsibility and respect for our fellow citizens, we will not bring the assumptions to Parliament until we have the certainty of being able to process them. That is why we have been holding a series of meetings with the parliamentary groups represented in this chamber, in order to be able to bring a draft law of assumptions to Parliament, had previously been granted. Since the government, we have always believed that the CUP and Catalonia in Comú We can be the preferred groups to agree on the assumptions. Groups who believe that they have a vision of the political situation close to ours, such as the fact that we all believe that the repression of the State against political and social leaders is to be halted, that it is to end once and for all the judicialization of politics, and that the best solution to the political conflict is to put into the hands of the citizens in the future collection of Catalonia. In the case of the UPC, we had to regret his decision not to talk to us, he decided that, despite everything, we respect. All in all, our doors continue to be open if they decide to change their minds. Catalonia in Comú We can soon show his willingness to talk to us, made us thank one more time. Up until a few weeks ago, a series of meetings had taken place to advance the negotiations. When there were still nine meetings on the agenda between the Government and the Group of Catalonia in Comú Pom, negotiations were over. He was calling for more work. We've made the effort to give all the work they were asking for. We are aware that they are concerned about taxation, for example. And we agree to move forward in the design of a just and efficient tax system, which allows the redistributive function. But let me also remind you that Catalonia is possibly suffering from the highest fiscal pressure in the Spanish State, so that it can allocate sufficient resources to adequately cater for the provision of public services. The taxes paid by the citizens of Catalonia are sufficient to provide us with the welfare we deserve. The bad problem, basically, in a situation of hardship for Catalonia, due to the fiscal deficit, which condemns us to the model of financing of the Kingdom of Spain, which has expired five years ago and which the Spanish governments, still of the color that follows, do not want to review. In this sense, it may be necessary to assess whether or not to load in the citizens of Catalonia the weights or faults derived from this financing model. I therefore appear today to explain to you the elaboration of the preliminary draft of the assumptions of the Generality for 2019, which are not defined. We are aware that, in order to approve them, we need more parliamentary support. That is why we would be loving the interventions of the various groups, hoping to be able to listen to constructive and realistic approaches. Presumables that surely do not satisfy everyone, and are at the hands of the groups of this chamber to improve them, but that are especially necessary for those who enjoy less opportunities to pull forward their life projects. Three_de_cada_four euros of the budget increase of this proposal are destined for social policies, for a more inclusive, more innovative and more sustainable Catalonia. Presumables that make us move towards a country of rights and opportunities for everyone. As President, I can understand and admit that this is a better, better, better, better proposal. What costs me so much more to hear is that this chamber renounced objective and obvious improvements, which would bring to this assumption – which foresees a non-funded expenditure of the Generalitat – of 26,157_million euros an increase of the expenditure of 1,665_million euros for the joint departments, which supposes a boost of the overall expenditure of 6,8_per_cent respects 2017 and recovers the levels prescribed in current expenditure of the Generalitat, in good part of the social spheres in which we work. The benefits: to strengthen with us our primary care network; to continue with the deployment of the inclusive school; to fulfil with the commitments established in the recovery of the labor rights of public workers; the deployment of optical fiber throughout the country, or to guarantee us resources to face the housing emergency. Millions that the vice president will be able to explain to you enough, because I think it is necessary to be aware of the cost of the decisions they make, or do not take, this chamber. In any case, I repeat what we have already explained, already in meetings, is already in this same chamber: the social character of the accounts we propose, which increase the expenditure of the departments of Education, Work, Social Affairs and Families and Health, at levels higher than the maximum suns in 2009 and 2010. The increase in expenditure of only these three departments represents 73.6_percent of the total increase in the generality. A presupposition that revolves around four axes, that they aim to build a country of rights and opportunities for everyone, as I said, as set out the plan of government that we have endowed ourselves for this legislature. The four axes are: in the first place, you serve public quality; in the second place, shared and sustainable prosperity; the third, redistribution and social cohesion, and the fourth, democracy and stronger institutions. I'll soon do some brushstrokes on each of them. This wants to be a premise that recovers the spending levels of the public services, and, as the vice president said a few days ago, allow us to put the accountant to zero and work for the Catalonia of the future. In concrete terms, the Salut expenditure would increase by EUR 532 million, intended, for example, to recover and improve the working conditions of professionals, and to improve waiting times and strengthen primary care. In education, it would do so in €473 million, an increase that puts us very much in the picture of the year 2010. And that of Work and Social Affairs, in 222_million euros, destined to improve attention to dependency, attention to childhood and adolescence in social risks, or to special work centres. Here are also the new calls for 650 squadron moves and 250 new bombers. For the support of economic activity for a shared and sustainable growth, this assumption includes the measures linked to the Industrial Pact, 82_million euros additional for employment programs, 108_million euros more for research, development and innovation policies, or 121_million in telecommunications infrastructure to extend optical fiber throughout the country, since, as we see these days, this week of Mobile, if we want to be a leading country, the investment in innovation and connectivity has multiplier effects, especially the economy, that we cannot miss. We also don't want anyone to be left behind, and that's why it's a proposal for a presumption that goes back to social redistribution and cohesion. Among the measures that include, as you know and we have repeated on more than one occasion, is to allocate 380_million euros to guaranteed income from citizenship, 20_million euros more to finance education from zero to three years, and about 145_million euros to attend to the housing emergency and encourage us to lodge for people with fewer resources. With these assumptions, therefore, clearly assolim, to say the levels of pre-crisis. And finally, the bottom line is: a premise that ages for stronger and more rigorous institutions, more transparent and also more democratic. The Vice-President will detail this, but the proposal that we have made as a premise of rigour in public finances, with the conviction that sustainable finances will guarantee quality public services. It is therefore a proposal for broad, sustainable and inclusive assumptions. It is obvious that if we do not finally get support to process them, the departments will not be able to dispose of the additional €1,655_million of expenditure planned for this year, in relation to the assumptions of 2017. In fact, the presupposition prorogation puts the Generality in a difficult financial situation. By extension, 2019 will lack credit amounting to EUR 1,265 million, and this does not include the cost of the new measures envisaged in this new project of assumptions. These millions that we don't have come only from recurring expenditure from departments and inescapable obligations since 2017; for example, the increases in remuneration for 2017 and 2018, the return of the extra pay for 2013, the expenditure derived from the increase in the number of teachers from 2017, etc. But not only that, to continue with the prorogation of 2017 assumptions will also have implications in all areas: it will affect the model of the inclusive school that as long as they have felt defending Councillor Bargalló, it will not be possible to establish a new food aid tram that would reach 80_per_cent of the cost of the service, nor to recover participation in financing from zero to three years. Nor will it be possible to guarantee the 100_per_cent of the help to the logger and the rehabilitation of habitats. Nor can university fees be reduced, nor can wage scholarships be introduced, aimed at removing barriers to university access. Also the resources linked to the guaranteed income of citizens, more than 200_million euros in works of improvement in equipments of the city of Barcelona, the resources destined for equipments of movers and firefighters, among many other parties, are affected. Action and measures that many of them are of consensus, and even some of them incorporated as a consequence of motions and resolutions approved by large majority in this chamber. Before – and I have just – passing the word to the vice president, I would like to make them a later point and a prec. Pointing out: these assumptions provide more resources to respond to the needs and emergencies of all Catalan society– of all Catalan society, without exception–, think what they think, feel what they feel, vote what they vote for. And the prec: the encouragement, to all groups, to be constructive, to be able to explain to us what is, if not, their alternative; feasible, viable alternatives. Any better will be welcome. As we have done so far, we will listen to them and debate them with the utmost interest. But they ask them, yes, to look at them and think beyond the proper electoral quotes of the months of April and May. We must be able not to condition the well-being of Catalans and Catalans to the short reign, to the electoral tactics that are always difficult to understand, the dialogue and the achievement of great agreements for the benefit of all Catalans. We find this consensus for the benefit of all Catalans. Come on, let's get to the height of the moment you've touched our lives. I gave the principle and repeated: accountability, transparency and dialogue. The government has acted responsibly and has a good proposal for a presumption, I am not convinced. You have the public and we debate it with the will to be transparent and to facilitate this agreement precisely. Shall we talk? So let's talk about it, the country's citizens deserve it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.252.0	Thank you, President. [[The Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History asked to speak.]] Yes, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.253.0	Yes, President, I ask you to speak in this Chamber, in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.254.0	All right. I understand that it is done by virtue of Article 85.6, as we did a few days ago. All right. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, say so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.255.0	Mr President, we call for the President's appearance to be supported in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in Rule 172(3), which states, without any doubt, that the parliamentary groups shall reply after the President. Therefore, since we are at a hearing – 172.3 – and there is no agreement in the groups on what should be the substance of the Vice-President's appearance, it must comply with 172.3, and then, if the Vice-President wishes to take the floor, but outside the line laid down in the Rules of Procedure. We shall not alter the Rules of Procedure at the request of the Government in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.256.0	Yes, Mr. Iceta, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.257.0	The same way. We have called for the President's appearance; he has asked for it very much, he has made his speech. The normal thing is that the groups are now pronouncing, and if at the end of the interventions of the groups the vice president asks for the word, logically open back, it would be the moment when his intervention is produced, not before.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.258.0	Well, thank you. Anyway, how did you... [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.259.0	Yes, thank you, President. I understand that in this case it is not applicable, Article 85.6 cannot be applied, which says that any member of the Government can intervene before any parliamentary initiative. We are not ahead of a parliamentary initiative. We are ahead of an appearance by the President of the Government, which is specifically regulated from Article 172.3. Therefore, the President's appearance must be completed with the turn of the parliamentary groups before any other members of the Government can intervene, they understand that the Government is a collegiate organ and, therefore, the President represents all members of the Parliament. Therefore, we ask that Article 172.3 be applied and, therefore, other members of the Government cannot intervene until this point has just been substantiated.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.260.0	Thank you. In any case, I understand his views, but there has actually been a request for an appearance not only requested by the President of the Generality but also by different groups. We've just approved these appearances that have called for different groups. Therefore, obviously there is a request for appearance under Article 172, but also a request for intervention by the Vice-President via 85.6. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. That, in fact, what the Rules say at this point, in Article 85.6, is that this does not prevent – the fact that some member of the Government can intervene at any point in the plenary debate – that the ability to order the debate is the presidency of the Parliament, as in the rest of the points. and, therefore, also to reorder the debate in operation and taking into account this request for intervention by the Vice-President. Therefore, you could propose any other method of ordering the debate, but, as I have already mentioned during today's day, what I propose and what we will do is that the Vice-President will speak now, then the parliamentary groups will respond to the President's intervention and then, if they wish, they will be able to respond to the Vice-President's, with the proportional time that they correspond to them. That's what we've done in other precedents. There are other precedents in which other members of the Government have intervened. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, there are other precedents. I will give you the word if you ask me, as a neighbor, but now I am speaking, I have the use of the word; so, please, listen and then I insist, if appropriate, I will give you the word. There are precedents that, in effect, other members of the Government have intervened in the President's appearances. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes; in other legislatures, not concretely in this one. And, in fact, there's another precedent that's not exactly the same, but it's been quite a while since the vice president also called for 85.6. In fact, you, Mr. Rodriguez, lit us up a little with Article 85.6. In any case, the proposal to order this late debate, which corresponds to me, is what I have already anticipated during today's day and which I have just commented on. That is to say, I will now give the word to the Vice-President of the Government, after the parliamentary groups can replicate the initial intervention of the President of the Generality and then, if they wish, they can respond to the intervention made by the Vice-President. So, Mr. Vice President, when you want to... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Pedret, forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.261.0	Yes, thank you, President. From our parliamentary group we believe that, in fact, the order of the debate corresponds to you, but that in your power to order the debate, you cannot distort a parliamentary debate as stipulated by Article 172 of the Rules of Procedure, which respects the appearances of the Presidency, and you cannot do so against what seems to us to be the most substantive interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. As was said, the faculty, let's say, the possibility that members of the government intervene whenever they ask for it, okay. What the Rules say does not necessarily mean that this can be included in the debate to be followed by the President's appearance, because when Article 172.3 says that the groups will act on the President's behalf, I think that clearly it can be understood that it is no solution for continuity. And, therefore, we ask you to make an order of the debate more appropriate to those articles that are, let's say, in different sections and chapters of the Rules, and that, therefore, you have a certain sense that this is so; so you also allow the groups to exercise their function of control to the Government in the manner that is regularly envisaged and that places them, to put it in the terms that are usually said, in equal arms with the Government at the time of discussing this important matter.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.262.0	Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, you should tell me why I ask for the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.263.0	On a point of order, on which we are now debating. Mr President, with all due respect, it is up to you to manage the discussions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not in accordance with your wishes, nor in accordance with the wishes of the Government. If the government is interested, as far as it is concerned, in the fact that Mr Torra, after his intervention, has the reinforcement of the economic vice-president, we believe that in Parliament we are governed by our Rules of Procedure and not by the dictates of the government. Nor should the President be governed by the dictates of the Government, but rather by what is clearly stipulated in the Rules of Procedure. And we would ask this to be done this way. In addition, we would almost seek the protection of Parliament's lawyers in this regard, in that they report on strict compliance with Article 172.3. Because this creates a dangerous precedent for the rest of the debates, to pursue them in accordance with the government's convenience in a Parliament that is supposed to be in control of the government. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.264.0	Yes, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.265.0	With regard to the same question, President, and to deeply disagree with the innovative interpretation you have made of the Rules. There are no precedents – there are no precedents – the way you try to order the debate today. We may understand that a request for the President's appearance is a parliamentary initiative, but once this request is approved, we are talking about an appearance of the President, which is no longer a parliamentary initiative and is now regulated by Article 172 of the Rules of Procedure. And, therefore, Article 85.6 does not apply, which refers to parliamentary initiatives. First question. According to the question, which I have few doubts about because I have the precedent, that it is that both the president and the vice president ask to compare before the plenary, and that the vice president does not have the power to ask for the appearance before the plenary, as we spoke to the Board of Spokespersons. On the assumption that, in accordance with Article 85.6 and in disagreement with our criteria, you now give the word to the Vice-President, the parliamentary groups have the right to respond to the turn of the Vice-President before he has to respond to the President. Therefore, our concern to the totality of the interpretation that the President makes of the Rules of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.266.0	With all due respect, Mr. Rodriguez, and the rest of the spokespersons who have spoken, and accepting that they may have disagreements regarding the value or application we make of the Rules, and my power to order the debate, not only in this session but in all plenary sessions, I insist that the proposal for the order of the debate is what I have transmitted to them before and that we have been able to speak all day long, and that it seems to me to be the most sensible and timely, taking into account the case of the debate that has taken place. So, Vice President, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.267.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President of the Generality, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, we have asked for the word, in agreement with the Rules, to complement the intervention that the very honourable President has made on the elaboration of the draft budget for the year 2019. Before entering the content of the presupposition proposal that we have made publicly with total transparency, I would like to take a rest from how we got here, how we got up to this debate. And I think I need to underline the Government of the Generality's willingness to agree on the draft budget for the year 2019. It is our obligation and our conviction to approve this premise. Contrary to what has happened in other presupposing debates and in other administrations, and we can take the example, very accurately in time, of the general assumptions of the State, the department responsible for public finance of the Generality, that is, the Department of the Vice-President and Economy and History has held meetings with all parliamentary groups in the process of preparing the presupposing project. Months of September and October. Initiation of the preparation of the September and October months because the Government had been out of the way after the application of Article 155 and to have raised it, the application of this article, on June 2, and because it was on September 25 that an agreement was produced in the case of the Joint Committee of Economic and Fiscal Affairs-General, which allowed the incorporation of essential data for the elaboration of the presumption. Therefore, a first round of meetings, explaining the presuppositional mark. A second cycle of meetings with the groups that explained more details of which was, let's say, the realization, as to global figures, of the project of presumption, in which we were able to find that there was a whole series of groups that did not have interest in participating in a possible political agreement for the presuppositional processing, but there was some group, in concrete terms the Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode, that showed this predisposition to speak. In this sense, a series of specific sectoral meetings have been completed, which finally, given the same dynamics of these meetings, could not go any further, and it is asked, on the part of different parliamentary groups, that the negotiation of the assumptions passed to be with light and tachographs. So we're with light and stenographers. We will be asked to explain the proposal in this Parliament. So let us explain the proposal in this Parliament. We act transparently, it's our commitment and it's what we're doing. I feel consistent with what we have always said, that the premise of the Government of Catalonia is very important for what it does to salvation, for what it does to teaching, for what it does to policies of social welfare, for what it does to policies of security and emergencies, and for all the rest of the policies of the Government; it is very important because a time has begun the processing of this can continue, and therefore a time after the approval of the preliminary draft in the Executive Council of the Generality, when it is brought to Parliament it has been guaranteed its processing. It is not an opportunity that we have now, the opportunity of parliamentary groups and the Government to make an agreement, but an opportunity to provide the citizenry with the necessary resources for the public service in our country. This fact is about how we got here, and underlining that we want to make the debate on the draft budget completely transparent – about the draft budget – about the draft budget, and I hope that today there will be debate on the draft budget, beyond the policy around the budget, there is some Member, who seems to be intervening, who is already telling me that it will not be there. So, well, in any case, he will already account for himself in front of his voters whether or not he is interested in what is contained in the draft budget. We do, because we work every day. As I said, the preliminary draft assumptions, entering into its detail, for the year 2019 takes into account the macroeconomic framework of which the president has highlighted the most important aspects, but also the fiscal objectives, which unilaterally decides the Ministry of Heritage. And, for the first time, it also incorporates, by decision of the Government of Catalonia, that it will not only be the macroeconomic indicators that configure, therefore, the context of the elaboration of the premise, but the indicators of welfare and social progress that this Parliament approved by means of a resolution that the Government had to push, and that they have been built jointly with the Institute of Statistics of Catalonia. In the proposal of assumptions, which we have made public, which we have made transparent and which we have made available, not only to the Members but to the citizens, there are provisions for non-financial non-finalist entries. Therefore, they exclude those tickets which are conditional on which they are made at a certain expense, i.e. subsidies to other administrations, foundations of the European Union, they exclude those which come from financial entries, i.e. debt, therefore, non-financial non-finalist tickets, which are the ones that allow us to decide and allocate to each department, are of a total of 25.234_million euros. An increase of 2,546_million euros respects the last approved assumption, the year 2017. An 11,2_per_cent increase: 2,546_million euros more inputs. Now, as we are obliged to reduce the deficit because it is the Ministry of Heritage that imposes – it is done with Minister Montoro and it is done with Minister Montero – unilaterally, some objectives of deficit to the autonomous communities, in which we have to decrease from 0.5, with what it was made the initial assumption of 2017, to 0.1 of 2019, that this..., in the end, the increase of expenses not financed by non-finalists remains of 1,715_million euros, and comes to a total of non-finalist financing expenditure of the Government of Catalonia of 26,157_million euros, a 7_percent more than the later assumption approved in this chamber. I would like to expose the main lines of the premise with four messages. The first: rigour in public finances is a requirement to maintain and improve the welfare state, to face the challenge of the future and to have more room for financial sovereignty. And this rigour is also essential to ensure justice between generations of this country. Secondly, we recover current expenditure levels before the economic crisis. In the third place, there are assumptions that, as I said before, for the first time incorporate indicators of welfare and social progress. Therefore, it is not only GDP, but it is all this set of indicators, following the objectives of sustainable development and the 2030 Agenda, which guide the development of this assumption. And they are, for the first time, assumptions that stand out in a multi-annual scene of entrances and expenses by mid-term, from 2019 to 2022, and apply the presuppositional stability mark and, therefore, the growth forecasts drawn up not only for the Government of Catalonia but for the Government of the State and the European Commission to the current situation, projected until 2022. Fourth message: this press release, as the President said, aims to work for a country of rights and opportunities for everyone, the most inclusive, innovative, sustainable Catalonia we want, with four strategic axes: quality public services, shared and sustainable prosperity, redistribution and social cohesion, and stronger democracy and institutions. Before I enter into any aspect more of the macroeconomic context, of the context..., of the assumptions, let me make five cents of the macroeconomic context in which these assumptions stand. The latest economic forecasts indicate that Catalonia, the year 2019, will grow more than the euro area average, a 2.5_per_cent, for a 1.3_per_cent of the eurozone. And with proper taxes, and, in fact, a little higher, than the state council. This moderation in the context of the evolution of the economic dynamism that is foreseen in Catalonia and our environment is explained, in good part, by the weakening of foreign trade, derived from protectionist tensions, the uncertainty generated by Brexit, the expectations of growth reduced to Xina and a lower impulse derived from monetary policy. During these years, Catalonia has become a nation even more industrial, still more open to the outside. Today's industry accounts for 21.4_percent of our country's total gross value added, which is designed to stimulate innovation, export capacity and productivity. And right now we're in a bigger economy than ever. Our market is not just the Spanish market. In fact, in the next few years, you sell them abroad, you sell them out of the Spanish State will end up doubling the sales to the Spanish State. Therefore, our internal market, today, is Europe and will be the world, an outward-opening nation, which is also capable of attracting direct foreign investment. And this translates into a sustained decrease in the atm, also of the long-lasting atm, also of the very long-lasting atm. But they persist and increase, in some cases, inequalities, not so much because there is more time, because, in fact, it is the opposite, but above all because there is more wage inequality. Therefore, we need more redistributive policies. And in this sense we have drawn up our proposal for a presumption. Once this brush is brushed over the economic environment, let me begin with the first message, the rigour in public finances necessary to guarantee the well-being. Good public finances, a good greeting to public finances is a guarantee of quality public services. And that is why we are betting and developing a strong fiscal strategy, with sustainable finances to help us ensure this intergenerational justice. We must be aware that today's deficit, caused by a major debt, is due to debt issues, is due to public-private collaborations that are associated with financial plans that many times have higher interests in the market, is due to the instrument that is, today's deficit, today's commitments are imposed by the fact that we are passing on to tomorrow's generations. And for this very reason, today we will be making a proposal in the field of taxation which must allow the proposal to be further improved. This need for intergenerational justice, in a context in which our own years will have a contention – if not reduced – of demography in our country, is very important. Our children and generations today will have to assume, as contributors, as well as contributors, a greater burden of relative expenditure than we are. Therefore, it is important that we leave some finances as orderly as possible. And this allows us to face the future with our backs, with more sovereign funding. This government's commitment to financial sustainability is inapplicable, and so it shows that in two years' time we have completed the deficit target. Not because it's good in itself the compliment of a deficit target decided unilaterally, first for Mr Montoro and now for Mrs Montero, but because it allows us to compromise spending is all finance, it's all paid, we don't leave bills in calaix, we don't leave subsidies pending to pay, but all that commitment is paid. Public policies end up going all the way to General Treasury, so that's why it's a grant, so that's because it's a benefit, so that's because it's the salary of a new servant we've opened. And, therefore, it is important that the treasury, which managed the treasury, is as secure as possible on the forecasts, and so we have done. As we said this morning, we closed the 2018 exercise with a deficit of 0.38_per_cent, under the target of 0.40_per_cent. It is an advance made for General Intervention, and we are sure that it will corroborate, as in the past exercises, the General Intervention of the State. Therefore, we will keep ourselves in the compliment of the objective. This compromise with the rigour of finances, as in the past, is directly related to the treasury. Remembering the debates we have in this Parliament doesn't do so much: how much you give to the joints, how much you give to the pharmacies. Commitments which, when hindering the website of the Department of Economics, are still in the process of programming. So, now, we're programming faster because we can plan better. Therefore, counting the change in methodology applied since March 2018, even though I keep it in mind, it is still at the lowest levels of the past few years. Thirty-four days of half-time payment to providers. This effort to reduce the deficit is also translated into a reduction in the debt ratio on the gross domestic product. Since 2015 it has not stopped lowering the generality's debt burden on the Catalan economy, and we anticipate that for this 2019 it is set at 32.7_percent of GDP. This allowed us to leave the FLA behind. Let me remind you that when we announced that we had left the FLA behind, some groups of this chamber said that they would fear us, some groups of this chamber said that we needed the State, until they found out that we left the FLA in agreement with the State, which was the State that said: "Leave the FLA. Why? Because we have simply complied, not to achieve any favor, but simply complied with the requirements of unjust legislation passed by the People's Party Government. At these times, we finance ourselves through the Finance Facility compartment of the Finance Fund to Autonomous Communities, which, unlike the FLA, does not incorporate fifty requests– fifty requests– policies of re-centralisation, of conditions in the prestecs that were not financial conditions. So, in terms of cost, it's the same. In terms of the Generality's ability to function and the defence of self-government, even of self-government so thinly, from an independent point of view, even from this point of view, is better the situation we have now, having emerged from the FLA. Another element of this assumption is that we recover the current expenditure before the crisis, but we do so with a great difference. In 2010, in the midst of an economic crisis, the deficit amounted to more than €9,000_million, equivalent to 4.48_percent of GDP in 2010. We will have achieved a reduction in the deficit of more than 90_per_cent in 2018, equivalent to more than 4 points of GDP, up to 0.38_per_cent. Now there's a new target, which is 0.1. These objectives are unfair, they do not adhere to the standards of stability, but, still, we find that the reduction of the deficit has been very significant, with the lowest deficit of the last years, in fact, the lowest deficit of this century, we have the highest expenditure of this century in social matters and in matters of social expenditure. And, as I said, there is also this presupposition of 2019 in a multi-annual scene of entrances and mid-term expenses, until 2022. If we apply the tax rules of the Law of Presuppositional Enabling, from the year 2021 the Generality will be in surplus, and this, which is a contradiction with the needs we have, indicates to us the need to change the rules of presuppositional enabling and to change them by the conjunction of the Spanish State. I would like to remind you that Spanish legislation is much more restrictive than European legislation. As I said, according to the message, we recover current expenditure levels prior to the crisis. How many times have we felt in this department of the year 2010, which was the year of maximum expenditure – in part because they carried out an expansive policy of expenditure, assuming that there would be a much higher deficit, because it was thought that the crisis would be much shorter, in part because of this – that year 2010, which was the year of major expenditure, was the point of reference of drawings, of drawings of motions that parliamentary groups have presented to this chamber, in order to demand that the Government provide more resources. So now, in terms of current expenditure, therefore, we still have a challenge in the field of investment, but in terms of current expenditure, in health, in welfare, in social work and in safety, we are clearly exceeding the expenditure levels of the year 2010. Therefore, the adjustments, the trimmings are left behind, and now we have to be able to project the future from the new needs of this year. The country has changed a lot in the new years, we know that, and therefore, we have to adapt..., and, in fact, the assumptions already adapt the internal distribution of these same resources as the year 2010, at current expense, to the new ones, but we have to do it even more – we have to do it even more. But they are aware of this, from these assumptions, the 2010 expense can no longer be the reference of opposition groups to ask us to get it back. In any case, if they approve of this assumption, if they allow it to be processed, then they may be proud to have achieved everything that has been demanded in so many parliamentary motions. And we're doing this with a deficit that's a part of the year 2010 deficit. From abroad, from the highest point of deficit, the tickets have recovered significantly, the increase in expenditure has been reversed to the real possibilities to finance it. It has managed to overcome and recover current expenditure levels from public service providers and, in addition, complement the deficit targets. And, as I said, the reversal, in change, has not recovered the levels before the crisis and continues to feel the assignment pending that we are working to be able to reverse. The content of the premise – said the president –, four strategic axes, in which the set of public programs and policies of the Government are grouped, take as reference the evolution of the indicators of welfare and social progress, fifty-two indicators. That, moreover, complements the parliamentary mandate of Resolution 17/XI of the Parliament of Catalonia, presented at that time for Initiative for Catalonia - Els Verds. For the orientation of the political action of the Generality, the indicators of social progress, for the value and its evolution, imply having a diagnostic of the State of Welfare and Social Progress in Catalonia. We need to take this into account in the definition of the political agenda of priorities, because we know that neither the public sector is the only sector that can influence the evolution of these indicators, nor is the Generality the only Administration that has the capacity to influence, but in any case, we are in fact responsible, and above all in the areas in which we have the most direct influence, in education and in others; however, it is weaker, also in fem, as in the evolution of the rate of growth, as we do not have the capacity in labour law. In principle, the increase in non-financial non-finalist expenditure is EUR 1,715 million and above to EUR 26,157 million. One example of this is that it satisfies the interests of the debt and the non-departmental funds, therefore, Contingency Fund, Staff Expenditure Fund linked to the pay increments and extra pay, is available for the departments 24,282_million euros, a 7.4_per_cent more than at the last approved assumption, 1,665,5_million euros. And the distribution of this increase responds to the priorities of the Government to build a country of rights and opportunities for everyone and move towards a more inclusive, innovative and sustainable Catalonia in four axes. You serve public quality. We will recover the expenditure levels of the public health services: 4,700 dozen more presupposed than 2017; created 673 new presupposed seats at the Catalan Institute of Health; 4,408 new presupposed staff of the public health sector joint; provided a presupposition to deal with 750 new squadron seats and 250 firefighter seats, the most important increase in recovery in the area of public places of later years. And, in better personnel terms, there has also been a combination of nine parties destined to improve accessibility to service and to meet new needs: 96_million euros more to reduce waiting time and strengthen primary, community, emergency and emergency care; 57_million dollars more to finance the increase in hospital ambulatory dispensation medication; 33_million euros more to cover the increase in receptions; more investment in firefighter equipment and infrastructure; set aside by our judicial bodies; investments in new schools. According to this, shared and sustainable prosperity, because prosperity is only if it is shared, if up to everyone, precisely because we want to reverse those indicators that appear to us in red to the index of welfare and social progress. We want the economic growth to be shared, and this implies addressing the great challenges of technological change, globalisation or climate change, with a cross-cutting view of the joint action of government: the deployment of the National Pact for Industry; setting aside the National Pact for the Knowledge Society; developing the Natural Heritage Strategy and the Biodiversity of Catalonia, with concrete measures; increasing the endowment for employment programs, 82_millions; 108_millions more resources for research and innovation parties, of which 54_millions more in the field of biomedicine and the sciences of salvation; investments in the water cycle, an increase of 140_millions of resources for research and innovation parties, of which 54_millions more in the field of biomedicine and health sciences; and, in particular, in the field of computer science and technology. We plan, this year 2019, to formalise up to 610_million euros in loans and downsides. The third eix, redistribution and social cohesion. It's a presupposition that you get old so no one gets back, to reverse the inequalities. An economic growth, which we have had in the past few years, which has not been distributed equitably. Therefore, it is necessary to act because no one is left behind. In these assumptions we set aside the third stretch of guaranteed citizenship income in application of the law, 80_million euros increase, which in the assumptions of 2019 will have guaranteed citizenship income a total endowment of 379_million euros. We are recovering, albeit partially, certainly, but we are returning to the many times claimed for this Parliament, which the Generality has again involved in the financing of children's homes, 20_million euros. A further step is being taken in the implementation of the inclusive school decree, incorporating 246 new professionals. And additional resources are allocated to the reduction of university fees and the introduction of wage scholarships. And mobility investments grow, 277_millions, and it gives a new boost in housing, in the form of help to the logger and increment of the public housing park, exercising the right of taneig and retraction. The fourth is the last, democracy and stronger institutions. We want to strengthen institutions, we want to continue to manage finances rigorously, we want to enhance transparency and evaluation. Strong institutions, a citizenry involved, a citizenry that participates in public decisions are fundamental elements of growth and well-being. The government's new accounts are for the digital transformation of the Administration, and the promotion of transparency and citizen participation. The process of evaluating public policies, reviewing expenditure, strategic public procurement, to ensure a more efficient use of available resources, is also encouraged. I accompany my words, which I said earlier, on vocation, compromise and conviction of transparency with concrete facts. I invite you all to consult all the information on the proposal of assumptions to the website of the Department of Economics, where you can find all the detailed information, with traditional book formats, but also with new tools of visualization of data that we have facilitated to facilitate understanding and navigation between this large volume of data that is generated when a proposal of assumptions is made. That said, one of the challenges we have on the table, on the part of different parliamentary groups, is to be able to improve this proposal for a budget with nine measures in the fiscal sphere. I would like, in this sense, to recall that in the past few years there has been a remarkable effort to improve the ability to attract resources in fiscal matters, the capacity of the Government of Catalonia to recapitulate. We still think we can take one more step, and that's what we're proposing. One more step he felt he would do if we could raise the amount of expenditure, which is what they claim to be. Therefore, we could make possible admissions, but they would require approval of some assumptions, because, if not, we could not spend them; if not, we would continue with the presuppositional extension of the year 2017. In this tax proposal, which we consider of the groups, we propose reforms in three tax figures: on the imposition of estates and donations, on the autonomous section of the tax on the income of physical persons and on the tax on documented legal acts, to which we must add the work that we are already doing from the Department of Economy for the normal development that will allow us to recover the tax on carbon dioxide emissions from vehicles of mechanical traction, already approved for this Parliament, and the tax on non-productive activities of legal persons, which is found in the same situation, accompanying the new plan of prevention and reduction of tax fraud, that the year 2018 – and thus the tax on non-productive activities of legal persons, that is found in the same situation, accompanying the new plan of prevention and reduction of tax fraud, that the year 2018 – and the tax on non-productive activities of legal persons, that is to be found in the same situation, that is a new one of public society. In this sense, the proposal we make in the field of inheritance and donation tax: we propose that the current bonus is reduced between 4 and 25 percentage points in the tax quota for the parent group 1 and 2, and that the 99_per_cent bonus for the spouse is maintained. This means that those taxable bases of more than 3 million euros, which before had a total bonus of 57.37_per_cent, would be kept to 34.50, and, therefore, the marginal bonus, which went from 99 to 20_per_cent, went from 9.95 to 5_per_cent; therefore, more progressive. The estimated annual turnover of this measure is EUR 83,2_million. If we approve the budget proposal, accompanied by this tax measure, this year 2019 we will be able to have tickets worth 20,8_million euros. According to the proposal we put to consideration of the chamber, and that, like the other, you have felt to approve it if we can spend the new resources that it would provide: reform on the one hand of the autonomic tram of the tax on the income of physical persons. We propose to apply the maximum 25.5_per_cent from 120,000_euros. In these moments it applies from 175,000 euros of liquidated base. Make it from 120,000 euros. It is, precisely, one of the areas where the average type already works, which ended up paying at the end, in a middle form, we have under other autonomous communities, and, in fact, under the middle. The impact of this measure is 16.3 million euros per year. Even if we insist before the Ministry of Heritage, the state character of the tax and the forms of its processing and management can make that the additional recaptancy derived from this modification cannot be entered before the winding up of the recaptacy this year, which is produced in the year 2021, but we insist because it is possible to do this year. The third proposal: taxation on documented legal acts. We propose to raise the general rate applicable to the tax of documented legal acts on mortgage loans, which at these times will pay the financial entities, from the current 1.5 to the 2_per_cent, which would allow to collect 77,8_millions of complementary euros to that already expected from ITP-AJD, and that to the heights that we are from the year the input in the year 2019 would be 38,9_millions of euros. We continue to compromise with the standard deployment of the tax on carbon dioxide emissions from mechanical traction vehicles, which, when deployed and applicable, will allow to recaptivate 71,4_million euros per year; and obviously, therefore, in the fight against fraud, still taking a new step forward. Last year we managed to raise 183_million euros. With all the new tools of the tax agency we have to mark a new objective, and we plan additional entries of the new actions of the new Prevention and Reduction Plan of the tax fraud of 213_million euros per year. Therefore, let us accompany this proposal for the assumptions of a proposal for taxation. Summary. It was asked that we explain the premise; we explain it. It was asked to address a negotiation with lights and stenographers; lights, stenographers and acts of parliamentary sessions. It was repeatedly asked to recover the expenditure levels of the year 2010; we do so in the current expenditure in the social sphere. He wanted to explore as much space as possible in the matter of taxation, and we did. This was all called for, and as we ask for support from the government for presuppositional processing. We have already announced that on the part of our Government we have not understood and have not shared some criteria to subordinate the handling of the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia to the general assumptions of the State. We will not subordinate our assumptions to the general assumptions of the State. To do so would be to renounce, to practice, to self-government, migrated, limited, that we have, but to do so would be to subordinate ourselves, and we will not subordinate ourselves. We make a reasonable proposal, we make a proposal that we believe can be taken over by the groups of this chamber. Instem, therefore, parliamentary groups are taking advantage of the opportunity to reach a basic political agreement for the processing of the budget. It is an opportunity that is not of the deputies, it is an opportunity that is not of the Government, it is an opportunity that is of the services of salvation, of the services of teaching, of work, of security, of emergencies, of the Administration of justice, of the infrastructures, of the promotion of culture, of the promotion and development of the agrarian world, of the policies against masculist violence, of the external action of the Government. In short, it is an opportunity for the citizens of Catalonia, and we ask the parliamentary groups not to hand them over and agree to the joint handling of this assumption. Many thanks, Mr President, Mr President of the Generality, Councillors and Councillors, Members and Members. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.268.0	Now, as we have advanced, and as was done at the Board of Spokesmen, by agreement of all the groups, there will now be an initial intervention of two minutes for each group, to respond to the intervention of the President of the Generality. And then, as the Vice-President of the Government has been about forty minutes of intervention, the parliamentary groups will have a seven-minute intervention per parliamentary group, the three-and-a-half correspondents for the subgroup. So, let's move on to the interventions to answer... [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, say'm, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.269.0	Yes, he asks for the word, according to Rule 90, by observance of the Rules. President, two questions: At the Spokesman's Meeting it was not agreed that the debate should be substantiated as you are at this time. No, no, That didn't work out. And I think there's a lot of evidence that this didn't work out that way. First question. The second question is: you have authorized the Vice-President's intervention in accordance with Rule 85.6. Okay. We weren't partisans, but you did. Okay. So let's ask for the application of Article 85.6, which says that when a member of the Government intervenes, they come back, and, therefore, at this point, what would correspond is to give response to the intervention of the Vice-President of the Government, and not of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.270.0	All right. In any case, a first observation. He didn't listen to me well, because I said that the one we gave to the Board of Spokesmen was the two minutes of intervention for the president's answer. This was agreed to by the Board of Spokespersons. And, in any case, as required by the Rules of Procedure, we will stop the development of the plenary for a moment and consult the members of the Bureau, because it is required before this request.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.271.0	Keep going. We have consulted the Bureau, as was the precept, because Mr. Rodriguez has requested compliance with the Rules, even though he has not made reference to the article for which he was requesting compliance with the Rules. I mean, I guess it was 85.6. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] For example, right? All right, 85.6. In any case, when the Rules are complied with, they should strictly appeal to the article. As it is, we will now respond to the Vice-President with these seven minutes, and then respond to the President. Therefore, it will now be seven minutes of reply to the Vice-President, and after two minutes, the turn of two minutes of parliamentary groups responding to the President's intervention. [[Albert Batet i Canadell asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.272.0	[[The speaker begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ...because, given the proposal they make, I would propose, like Juntes per Catalunya, that there is only one intervention of the said minutes, and that there is the possibility that there are two interveners, if the groups had prepared them differently. I think it's a lot more sensible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.273.0	No, no, We've already anticipated the sequence. Simply, now what we're just profiling is what we're doing first, but the sequence and methodology of the debate we've already given them. Therefore, we are now responding to the Vice-President. Mr. Iceta, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.274.0	For a question of order and observance of the Rules.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.275.0	What article?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.276.0	The article you're applying, 86.3, it seems to me that's what... [[Widow's remorse.]] This, this... what's this? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 85.6, if you will, with all precision.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.277.0	Yeah, better.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.278.0	President, I normally agree with the appreciation of the distinguished colleague Santi Rodríguez, and I think he is right, but in the end it all comes from an initial error, which I believe would now provoke another one's commission. Here we came for a request from the President of the Generality, who did it as well as he could. [[Widow's remorse.]] Then the vice president completed...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.279.0	Mr. Iceta, this isn't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.280.0	... his intervention, and he will give little to another debate. But what I'm asking is that since it's a request for the president's appearance, the group presidents can answer the president and then they can do the debate as a function of the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.281.0	No, no, Indeed, they could reply to the President, but after the Vice-President's intervention. We have consulted the Bureau, we have granted this, as Mr Rodriguez has requested. Therefore, they now have a turn of intervention to answer the Vice President and, as they had advanced, we have the list of spokespersons who will intervene. I remember that it's seven minutes per parliamentary group. And begins this reply, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr. José María Cano. When he wants to. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.282.0	Well, thank you, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.283.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.284.0	President, Vice President, Councillors. Especially you, Vice President. Of course, I understand that you are already fully aware at this stage that this way of dealing with an analysis of the Generalitat's budgets is not the right way. What you do today is neither serious nor responsible, and clearly not rigorous. This is not a budget debate. What we do today, in short, is another irresponsibility of the Government. What I ask you is what makes sense to analyze some numbers that have not been approved by yourselves, that have not even been approved, therefore, by the Government, by its Government, by whom it presents them, that have not even been registered in this Parliament to deal with its procedure. What a sense you have some budgets that we have known through the press, through a press conference that you did at the Generalitat, and that today we have read again the powerpoint that you read that day. And he's also explained to us that he's trying to put his hand in Catalan pockets. And, moreover, that does – this kind of dialogue, because I would not talk about debate – in less than forty-eight hours that the Members of this House would know the data you are presenting. With all this, we have come to the conclusion that you obviously do not believe the numbers that you are presenting to us, because if you believed them, Mr Aragonès, you would present them and defend them before all of us. I, behind this maneuver, see only electoral interests, of course, a sort of show, and the citizenship and institution that we Members represent, I think we deserve respect. This is not a serious budgetary debate; this is obviously a show of a weak government, a government that has no political capital to reach agreements, a government that is unable to reach consensus. Despite this reality, we will make an effort and talk about the content of the papers presented to us. First of all, we will talk about the budgetary scenario and the economic and social context that you have described to us. The reality is that they have lived immersed in a year of economic growth and higher incomes, and this is good to clarify, Mr Aragonès, because when you explain the starting point you do it to us as if it were the merit of your government, and not. The improvement of revenues, the improvement of the budgetary situation is obviously not the merit of your government, because they did not even have a budget in 2018; obviously, it is the result of the work, the effort of the companies, it is the result of the work of the self-employed and it is the result of the efforts of the citizens, especially of the middle and working class, who are ultimately the ones who pay taxes, which are, as you say, the highest in all Spain. They are the ones who open up markets, they are the ones who innovate, they are the ones who create jobs. And it is a job and an effort that you do despite yourself, even though you only do what you do is put the sticks on the wheels: you generate legal insecurity, political instability and bad image, too. Therefore, the first thing they have to do is that, if they really want to help them and that economic growth follows their inertia, what they have to do is stop being insolidary and stop acting irresponsiblely. Now we will talk about what is indeed the merit of your government. What is indeed the merit of his government is the legacy they have left, a public debt of more than 77,000_million_of_euro; debt, of course, qualified as a garbage bond, and that will not allow us to finance ourselves in the markets in many years, which other autonomous communities are already beginning to do. Your legacy is also the disastrous management of the ATLL, which will end up costing us a fortune and which, by the way, does not come out in the numbers that you have hung on the web. Your inheritance is the 9_de_metro line, which has tripled your spending. His legacy is Spanair's poof. That is the inheritance that these budgets receive. And their inheritance is 3 percent, it's an inheritance of the government team, too, all 3 percent that has affected the arks of the Catalans. Therefore, I would say to you, Mr Aragonès, that the most appropriate thing in this case is that you should be humble and ask for forgiveness from the citizen rather than devoting yourself to breast-feeding, as you have done in the exhibition that you have made us. If we talk about the scenario that contemplates the numbers that you hung on the web on Monday, you expect a Catalan GDP growth of 2.5_per_cent, when you are fully aware that the current forecasts are lower. There's a greater deceleration. Already the Chamber of Commerce of Barcelona this February speaks of the 2,1_per_cent growth of GDP, therefore, inferior to that which you mark as a scenario of this budget. Therefore, we do not have an estimate that follows the essential principle of prudence, which is obliged, in principle, as you know, to draw up any budget. On the other hand, we do not see active employment policies in the budgets; active employment policies that help improve income redistribution, as you speak. The most effective way to distribute income is for our fellow citizens to have a high-quality and well-paid job, and for the SOC to function perfectly and not as it does at the moment. Therefore, its objective in terms of job creation is not prudent when presenting these numbers, which is already starting from an unbelievable scenario, so to speak, when establishing the basis for the numbers they speak. And this situation conditions the revenues that are contemplated in the documents. Well, since I only have one minute, we're asking you to come forward to explain why you haven't presented the budgets, not to give us a fiction, some unreal numbers. And we ask because we want to know how they will manage the more than 77,000_million public debt. What will happen if the budgets are not approved? What are the expenses already incurred and which will have to be managed by decree? What will happen to ATLL, or VTC, compensation if they end up claiming compensation? What will happen if your growth expectations are not met? And today, instead of talking to the Communes about tax increases, about putting your hand in citizens' pockets, we would like to have it addressed to the citizenry and explain to them what it tells all those parents who see how their children study in barracks, what it tells families who are on waiting lists, what it tells the more than 18,000 people who are [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] on the residence waiting list, what do you say to the Catalans who are on the health waiting list... because, obviously, their cloud numbers don't answer all this.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.285.0	You're out of here, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.286.0	So don't ask us – for a moment – to create numbers that don't exist from a government that doesn't rule. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.287.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, also for this turn of reply to the vice president, has the word deputy Alicia Romero, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.288.0	Good afternoon, president, vice president, councillors, deputies and deputies. Today's 27th of February, and the government hasn't approved any assumptions yet. The government has not yet registered any assumptions in Parliament. And today we don't do a totality debate, Mr. Aragones; we don't do a totality debate, because they haven't registered yet some assumptions that you didn't even dare approve. I think today we talk about responsibility, we talk about trust and we talk about courage. The responsibility to approve assumptions, the obligation to present them, as the Law on Public Finance says among other things; the obligation to present them and the responsibility to approve them, and to seek out the majority parliaments. This is his responsibility. They also talk about trust. Trust in yourself, in a government that has priorities, shows them in assumptions, approves them to, then, start processing them. They don't believe in their assumptions? That they don't trust him? Because the normal thing is that when you trust one thing you go all the way to the end, and so, you give it to an execution board and the ports and registers in Parliament. And that's what you didn't do this time. It's unpublished. It's the first time this has happened. What happened in the past is that they teach their government assumptions, teach them, present them to the media, and the parliamentary groups know us, obviously, for the press. You're a pain in the ass, Mr. Aragonès. Because you say, "We will have some meetings with you. Miri, he introduced us to that meeting, I said, a powerpoint with eleven slides, which he didn't deliver to us, which I tried to get the day you introduced him to social and economic agents. That's to say, a meeting where we were going to set him up with what our assumption scener would be, presents us with a powerpoint and not in the ladies. That's to say, don't say that you're lighting and stenographers, transparency... Transparency is demonstrated to the Parliament, approving in the Executive Board some assumptions and bringing them here, registering them, and feeling brave to the debate. Because, of course, today we don't make a question of assumptions. It's just that we can't do it, because it's not a totality debate. I'd like to do it with you, but that's not... This point on the agenda of the plenary was not for that, it was because the president explained to us why he didn't present them. And it wasn't clear to me, Mr. President, because you don't have any assumptions. And then, I said, they have to be responsible, they have to trust you and, obviously, they have to be brave, like other economic advisors. I can't imagine, honestly I'm telling you honestly, the Counselor Mas-Colell coming here to say that he has some assumptions that his government hasn't approved, but that, on the other hand, he has gone on the web. In the end, that phrase of "virtual president, virtual government, virtual assumptions is that you will make it more effective than ever. Honestly, I'm telling you. And it's hard for me, because I think that, at 27 February, when the law says that October 10th is due, so it's been a lot of days, a lot of weeks, a lot of months. Look, I don't know if they're the most social in history, I'd say no. I don't want to go in with the figures, because it's not a whole question of this. And I don't want to give you the goig, because you're going here to do a little theater, to explain a few things to us, when there hasn't been a debate at all. This is not the debate we have to do today. But I honestly do, while there are a thousand educational barracks, while we have the highest taxes in the State and there is no intention that this change, while we have twenty thousand people pending the value of guaranteed income, thirty thousand young at the time, 85,000 people on waiting lists for dependency or 385,000 children at risk of poverty, I... as I go by, I don't think you can say in such an oversized way 'are the most social of history. It will be the day they solve these problems, Mr. Aragonès. The day we solve this, the day we have all the resources to fix this, that day will be the most social of history. That's why I think we should be a little more honest and not make these empty sentences, because already Mr. Junqueras said, "the most social of history, we already showed him that they weren't. But it's the same as the jifra. They can't be while there's still problems, waiting lists. The other day, Mrs Escarp gave me a 29.55_per_cent of the waiting lists in cardiopathic surgery. How can it be? In a year, how could it be? So, if this doesn't get better, if it doesn't get better clearly, if we don't put in the resources because this better can't, of course, be the most social in history. And then, just to donate a cup. Clearly, you tell us: « For the year 2019, 26,100_million euros in expenditure will not fund non-finalist. But when we look at the implementation assumption of 2018, we've already spent more money. That is to say, we spent more money making assumptions during 2018 than we proposed in 2019. You see, listen, here you trick us, because the data is from your department. Therefore, I sincerely, Mr Aragonès, say to him: "If there are no €80_million for schools in Bressol, no. 20. Said: "Well, 20_million euros. No, no. To face its responsibility, which is one third of the financing of the schools in Bressol, it is 80 million euros. Ah, and I remember, in parentheses, "and the pending debtors, who have a feeling that you tell him he has to pay, and that doesn't even put it in the presupposition anymore. One hundred million euros to lower taxes and increase the funding of universities, because it blows the mouth, now that we are in the days of Mobile, that the economic model must be based on knowledge, innovation, research, and it turns out that we do not have resources here as the university community has been asking us for a long time. One hundred million, it's not too much. Fifty-six_million euros to open five_ thousand liters of live-in emptiness; 5_million euros for a return plan for young people; 92_million euros to improve waiting lists. If these things don't fit into the assumptions, they can't say they're the most social in history. And we're all assumptions that we can't please. Because, besides, there are some things that we tell him that have been approved repeatedly in this Parliament. Where is the sobriety of this Parliament when we talk about these things that really affect the citizens? Honestly, I think I should have them look at me. And I don't think that these assumptions, beyond the fact that they obviously don't solve the problems that the country has at these times, we don't think they're facing the challenges of the country's future, in terms of industry, industry 4.0, artificial intelligence. If you repeat the game of industry, the energy game, which country of the future do we want to be? Cosmopolitan, modern, spearhead of Europe. If they lower resources in industry and energy resources. Honestly... And that's why they didn't want to look any more. You also ask us, and Mr. Torra tells us, how will you do it? We've already told them two ways to open windows to get more tickets. One was to approve the general assumptions of the State: 2,200_million euros in reverse and 2,000_million euros in current transfers. And make a tax reform a little braver than it is today, to see if it seduces Mr. Cid. I don't think he will. But, in any case, courage – courage – because we really demand a greater effort from those who did not make it during the crisis, and I think they are not making the effort. Therefore, Mr. Aragones, present assumptions that your government has previously approved. Be true, responsible, and you will find us here debating totality items, and, if you like, making items– and, if you like, making items–, as Mr. Torra asked us. But if there is no presentation of assumptions, if there is no strict debate, if you are not serious and brave, we will not find it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.289.0	Thank you. Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, also by the turn of the line, is the turn of Deputy David Cid, on behalf of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Pode.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.290.0	Well, I'll start by congratulating you. He has managed to convert what was the appearance of the President of the Generality into his appearance, and you and your Government have contributed to further degradation of the Presidency of the Generality, because there is no doubt that a debate on assumptions can be made. [[Some applause.]] Today was the appearance of the President of the Generality and not on the day of setting up all this work, to see if you were speaking, or speaking who was speaking and in what order we were speaking. And I think you, one more time, have been wrong about your internal bars and their internal embolisms. And also the happiness because, look, since November 29 that we are trying to negotiate with you to know the detail of the assumptions of the Generalitat, and in the end you have trigato only three_months– three_months, eh? – because we can know the detail of the assumptions of the Generality. Either way, it's cost us a lot more than giving him a complaint, I'd say. So, in the end, I look, I don't know..., it turns out that we were the priority partner, because if it cost us three_months, for example, to know what was the total expenditure of the departments of the Generality..., what way to negotiate. And, look, we come to the conclusion that you don't negotiate. What you wanted is for us to approve the Generality's assumptions as you decided on 29 November, and this is not a negotiation. This, in the end, is that we accept the generality's assumptions as you had them planned. And so we already told him that we wouldn't do this, that we weren't in this situation. And, look, I'm the "most social assumptions of history..., once more, reload, second part... That's what we've seen. And we ended up with the most social assumptions of history with some social mobilizations this late because the assumptions burst all over the place. And I think we'll get through the same thing again. Because, of course, I don't know how long you're going to go on comparing it with the year 2010. It can be compared in absolute values, but it's that, look, my opinion is that... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, I'm telling you that you can't buy with 2010 year, among other things, if you don't take inflation into account. It's just that I think it's first in the economy, or, in this case, the economy advisor, because inflation has risen by 15_per_cent. Compared to inflation, these assumptions are 4,500_million under what we spent in 2010. If you want to compare without regard to inflation, then let's do it, but in any case, if we compare without regard to inflation, there are departments that are below, to begin with, the Health Department. And, look, at the end we're wearing these three months... And with concrete requests, which was the most important that we had – and then our group president, who came to this, will come in, in this case –; of the proposals we have made, of the proposals we have made, of the minimums, from Catalonia to Comú, the majority are not complete. And, above all, more than that, it's that I think these assumptions don't fit. I'll tell you why they don't. You include the 350_million input parties that were – I repeat, "that were – in the general assumptions of the State, that you have fallen on them. And they say to us: "Do not subordinate the debate. No, if it is that we have never subordinated the debate of assumptions, in this case, to that of the State, but you have. And the most obvious proof that they're subordinating them is that they include a game of assumptions that you dropped. Therefore, these 350 million euros are no longer there. As far as the generality is concerned, as far as we are concerned, you know that this $350 million will not be charged. We won't charge them, because we're on Mr. Rajoy's presuppositions, and they're not there now. And so when we get to September or October and they can't pay twice as much as you can, or they can't pay the drugstores or they can't pay... in this case, for example, they can't pay third-sector entities either, what will they say? "No, it's that we're missing the 350_million euros that we've put in the presupposition. Miri, it's that a premise is not to make political denunciation, it's to manage the reality of Catalans and Catalans. And, therefore, it is a bad idea – we have already said this Tuesday – to use the assumptions of the Generality as an element of denunciation of the state's shortcomings. If we already agree... Certainly, it is not just a question of lack of autonomous financing, but also. And the Law of Presupposition, I remember, is not just a question of Mr. Rajoy or Mrs. Montero, but it is a question of the PDECAT, which are its governing partners. Therefore, the Presuppositional Enabling Law, which sets a target of 0.1, is something that you and your governing partners, with whom they share the government, have set in motion. And, therefore, the quota we have today, the Law of Presuppositional Enabling, the rule of spending..., explain to your government companies why they approved it and why they detailed Catalonia's self-government. And, look, in taxation, one more time, fiscal pyrotechnics; another time more, fiscal symbolism. Because, listen, if in our estates we have made a proposal that generates a sum of 475_million euros. You make us a proposal of 83_million knowing that this year, as much as with all the measures you put on the side of the table, you said that they would collect 76_million euros. Look, I'm telling you, let's go to the law. We've already registered them, or we've already registered them as the bill. If you really want to talk about taxation, let's go here, because with €76_million we don't do anything to approve nor the eight-hundred_five measures that are missing in this case to get to the retail level, nor to get to complete exactly everything that should be paid for, for example, to finance schools in Bressol, nor to put more places of residence for large people, neither for housing policies, nor for the things that we have asked of them. So... or so, if you don't really want to do a tax reform and what you were coming to today, it was basically a situation where it's the fault that the assumptions don't come up, so, look, we, for fiscal symbolism, won't put ourselves there. And, besides, I also make proposals to him, because as we also believe that his not to the general assumptions of the State has, in this case, lost of entrances, I make two proposals to him. A new tram from three-cents_thousand euros to 30_per_cent, which is what you've been through if you've approved the state's general assumptions. And that, besides, you have also, in this case, charged the increase that we have charged the student to students of more than one hundred and sixty thousand euros, I propose that we boost the asset tax to the maximum type, to 3,75 that they have some autonomous communities, such as, for example, Extremadura. That is to say, if we go to the tax reform, we go in earnest, we go to recover the tickets that we have lost from its no to the assumptions and we really go to make a bump of 600 or 700 million euros in order to be able to actually make the social policies that we want. Because, if not, in the end, I come to the conclusion that you do not want assumptions; you came here to say who is to blame that you cannot approve the assumptions, but not to a discussion of assumptions. And we've already said this: this is not the whole question of assumptions. And, look, we... our group up to the conclusion that you're already doing well, that there's no presupposition. It's all right, there's no presupposition, because it's easier to complete the deficit target, because it's easier with presuppositional prorogation. And, besides, I also say: a presuppositional extension that allows you..., comparing with the numbers of 2017, but with departmental spending, the execution of 2018 is 1,000_million over 2017. And the closest we have to a presupposition of 2018 is the execution of 2018, and that's the numbers you've presented. But I say it already: to you in the end the one who interests you most..., if you have already told us: you are more interested in going back to the markets, getting out of the FLA, getting out of the fund of autonomous financing, so that, with a supposed independence, in this case, will finance, re-positioning the Generality to the markets. And we believe that this is not our main objective, but that our main objective is to dispose of resources for social policies, and that means a real tax reform, and not the fiscal pyrotechnic that you have us used to. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.291.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Mr Vidal Aragonese deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.292.0	Good afternoon. We thought that our decision was uncertain, that we would not go in or negotiate assumptions, that we would vote against those assumptions, but they saw what the vice president has moved us this late – certainly, now we would insist on this – we think the whole thing is going on. And we want to insist on this because most groups – and we think we should all be – have known these assumptions forty-four hours ago, not in depth, and some of us may have discovered them twenty-four, thirty-six hours ago. There was a time when we even thought there would be a big surprise, because a potential tax reform, a tax reform was announced, but what the Vice-President has translated into this House, therefore, is to set a position of strength and not want to have assumptions, and we would not be the ones who went to vote for them. What's going on with us, like the big announcement? – certainly, a great announcement that is absolutely poruc and that seeks a _second negotiation or simply that they do not vote for it. Successions and donations, and I'll be rectified by the vice president, because maybe I took some note wrongly: reduce the bonus from 1 to 2, which could mean on the low tram maybe four points, maybe you'll tell me that until twenty-five, for a base of three hundred thousand..., three million– sorry, I thought it was three hundred thousand, and I guess you said three thousand. This means, annually, 83,2_millions; not this year, from the following years. It's all you plant as estates and donations. Obviously, absolutely porcupine. IRPF. For more than one hundred and twenty thousand euros of inputs, apply the type of 25,5. Can you answer us if this affects 1_percent of the population? We can give him the data of what would have been a tax reform of the progressive and courageous IRPF, which was for more than sixty thousand, which affected only 4_per_cent. But who does it affect, Mr. Vice President, this amount of cent_twenty_th-thousand admissions? Can you tell us? That the amount, also the annual, which means annual..., is obviously only 16.3_million. It will probably only affect the 1_per_cent of the Catalan population. And the third question: documented legal acts. First we say: increment of 0.25_per_cent, and even the whole quantifies annually in 77_millions, but recognizes that it applies to mortgage loans. Look, we wouldn't be against this, but we don't want to put up with another question, which is that what would happen is that the bank would end up impacting it through certain financial products to those who are going to get the loan, and you know it. And, therefore, we find ourselves with an absolutely porous tax reform that you do not serve for what we need. And what we need is simple. Recognise that this does not reverse the details; in response to whether these assumptions will be used to eliminate the waiting lists, to end the public teaching barracks or to solve the problem of housing. Or, if not, they recognize in a clear and honest way that they do not have the capacity to control autonomous finances and that real control has the financial markets. And the last question, which is much simpler: presupposed to the size of the market, the sacrosanct Spanish Constitution and its Article 135 and a state of detailed autonomy. Look, Article 155 was to be enslaved; Article 135 is to be simple vassalls, and for us this is not freedom.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.293.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.294.0	Set_between: 3.5. I will not exhaust them, but not 2.5, President, thank you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's just that I got busted for a minute of the surgery. President, Vice President, we have a lot of doubts about the setting up of this debate that we are having here today. We did not have them in relation to the petitions made by the Ciutadan Group and the Podeman Group in relation to having a debate on the presentation of assumptions, as in the later plenary our group asked the Vice-President for an inquiry to discuss the presentation of assumptions and to be able to enter into certain subjects, but we are surprised that the same President of the Generality is asking for an appearance and at the same time giving him the role of the Vice-President. We thought that this was a strategy to try, therefore, to bring some other parliamentary groups to your side and to enable the handling of these assumptions. Surely... we thought less about the UPC, we thought more about the May Group, we thought maybe also about the Socialist Party Group. Now we see that no, that this simply responds to a government's own strategy; if I may, to a public report. Why, what are we talking about? We're talking about nothing. Because you have not approved the assumptions, there are no assumptions; there is an announcement, there is a press wheel, there are numbers, but there are no assumptions approved for the government. And, therefore, this is not a question of assumptions. In fact, these assumptions of what you have spoken to us today are like the republic: they do not exist. In fact, the presuppositions of the republic of what the president has told us do not exist. Awake: There is no one thing or the other. Counselor, I am not going to discuss the assumptions, because it is not a question of assumptions, as I said, but you see here and you say to us: "We come to ask your support for the handling of assumptions. Okay. "We will not approve the assumptions or present them if we do not guarantee their processing. Okay. Look what I'm saying to him: he has all our support to deal with the assumptions – he has all our support –; now, what is most important, he has the support of the Rules of Parliament, which is what allows you to deal with the assumptions, not the parliamentary groups. In order to deal with the assumptions, it would be as simple and unheard of as the government's approval. It's that simple. He's at his hands, not in parliamentary groups. The processing is guaranteed. Or are you asking for assurances that we approve of the assumptions, that there are two very different things? Not only is processing guaranteed, Mr. Vice-President, but it is his obligation, as the Economic Adviser, to tough the assumptions to the Government and, of the Government, to tough them to the Parliament. Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.295.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.296.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, well, let me start with one of those well-known sayings: "Guinean, when there can't be them, say they're green, say so. And today, one more time, we've been to this... to get out of the debate, we're doing the debate on the debate, huh? We're used to it, it's nothing new. You can spend time, as some of you have tried, denying the evidence, but that doesn't make it go away, does it? So, as much as we understand the forms and details and the minutes and the order of the interventions, etc., what we can't fail to see is that here in the front we have a certain contribution from the government, which is explicit, that they don't pretend to be the one that isn't, that they don't want to replace a processing, but they want, in any case, more quickly to find that it's worth trying, we're making it easier. What we're asking is that... exactly what we're proposing to them, what we're offering them, and what the government seems to me to be giving us with all clarity is the ability to contrast criteria, positions, criticisms. There is no closed product here, there is no yes or no obligation, we are not... precisely because it is not a processing in the formal sense. That you can have it, that you'll have it, right? If at least you accept this, let's say, the government's gift, huh? We can have an open debate, an open debate, a debate without compromises, a debate without limits, right? So hold it. They say what they seem to them, they criticize, they say why they like them and why they don't like them. And then we'll be on condition to decide how and when it's the best time to do the proper processing. Now, come here to make the show, the same show that the socialist government has made in Madrid, making a fiction of presentation of assumptions and processing, to end as they have ended, so it seems to me that..., that's what we won't do, precisely. Indeed, in part, because we respect this Parliament, because we have the general interest that we intend to serve. Here is a proposal to serve the general interest of the country. There are some figures, there are some concepts, there is a general orientation, there is a glue of very significant innovations, which seems to me that as a minimum they deserve attention and respect. If they want to disagree..., naturally, it would just be missing; but it seems to me that the one who doesn't have much sense is to disqualify the debate or simply try, in other words, to defend the position itself based on a few details, a few photos, a little concrete illustration. Here there is a general layout of country, a layout of which can be the presuppost 2019 of Catalonia, and it seems to me that it is what deserves attention and respect. Here there is a clear, rigorous explanation; there are limits, ambitions; there is transparency, and there is, indeed, provision for the real dialogue, not a pure parliamentary rhetoric. I didn't feel like coming here to do a process just because you're used to show off some people's electoral fevers, whether they're Spanish, Barcelona or the type they're going to be. So, what we're doing here today is offering a new, open, amp playing field, a real contrast-priority scener. And we also come to show that there is an open path ahead of us, a wide and transitable path to acquit the majority of Parliament that a presumption, indeed, demands. It's not an ultimatum, it's not a simple sort of white or black, whether or not it is. This presupposition says many things at once, this initial presupposition proposal. The most important, from my point of view... look, what's obvious is that the myth of the process is over. There's a government here, huh? There's a government with a strategy. There's a government with priorities. There is a government with a firm and definite and concrete compromise, which risks saying, "That's what we can say, "So far we can, "That's not yet, "That, with all clarity, is our possibility, "Extremely our demands respect the rights that we have consolidated in relation to the State, etc. But we say it with all of you and all of you, clearly, black over white, xifra by xifra, number by number. And I think this is a very good sign, because, indeed, we are sending a message to the country that there is a government here that wants to change, that wants to reform, that actually wants to achieve change objectives about our economic and social reality both for the ticket band and for the expense band. Here what we're doing is recovering the lost equity. What we're doing is forgetting the details. What we're doing is building collectible welfare. The most historic of social spending seems to me to be not a questionable mass. More than 2010, yes, but in this case, as the Vice-President well explained, he did not finance with difficulty but with efficiency, good governance and clear prioritization of concepts and strategies. And we add this new taxation, which we can discuss, effectively; we discuss it until the limit, we discuss it with the maximum pass and the maximum rigour, and we see what it gives if and what elements or changes can be introduced. But let us not disqualify it, please, because it seems to me that it is the first time, since a long time ago, that this Parliament is on condition of discussing, of listening to a proposal for tax reform with a very clear depth, with a clear ambition of change. The 350_million, by the way, are a consolidated right that we have to put into our presupposition, those that you give us the State. Don't do it, it would be reckless, because it would be as much as giving up a right as we do. It's the other way around: what we're supposed to... is precisely put the maximum clarity on this type of right, this type of debt that the State has in our favor. The new multi-year framework is a new concept, too, and it is a qualitatively important concept. It offers a more interesting _debate frame yet, because we're not just explaining what we want to do in our own months, but we're explaining what we're going to do and where we're going in the long term, for the next four years. And it seems to me that this is, at least, uplifting, and worth noting. As is the incorporation of this new system of social indicators and progress that Idescat has prepared, which is a methodological novelty, but not only, because it is a compromise, it is a self-requirement. And one last reflection: this assumption is a clear definition of the government's role in relation to the Catalan economy. Let's not get used to saying that; the government claims to be an economic agent. We are contributing to the overall economic recovery of the country: we are adding growth, we are getting an explicit increase in aggregate demand, domestic demand...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.297.0	Counselor, it's run out of time... – I'm sorry, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.298.0	...to our country. Now it's time to get social spending back with all clarity. It's time to improve living conditions, reduce the level of inequality. And that's what makes this assumption, this proposal. Let's discuss it, work it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.299.0	Congressman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.300.0	...let's win the right to turn it into formal approval. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.301.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.302.0	From here, President, to show the support for the appearance that the Vice President has made and around that which he has opened here. From Juntes to Catalunya, the import of assumptions is unquestionable, all councils and advisers have shown a predisposition to make assumptions of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. All right, all right,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.303.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now let's move on – now, then – to response interventions to the President's initial intervention, two minutes per parliamentary group. And in the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.304.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Today we are not dealing with a budget debate. I'm sorry to disappoint you, Mr. Torra. It seemed to me that you read something similar as if you were in a budget debate; in fact, you said 'we presented the budgets, I think on two occasions. We are not dealing with a budget debate, Mr Torra. I don't know if you know, huh? But... it's just that you haven't even approved the draft budgets. I know you may not realize what is approved, but neither you nor any of your advisers have approved any draft budgets. We are therefore not in a budget debate today. Today we are in an exercise of institutional degradation on your part. We have asked them to appear to explain why we are almost in March and you have not approved a draft budget. But today he wanted to make an appearance here, by obligation, Mr. Torra, and of course he has brought out the squire, the faithful squire, to whom he has to save the unfortunate interventions of Mr. Torra, who is Mr. Aragonès. And it's also that this is an appearance, and that's why we have ten_minutes to intervene; we don't have thirty to make a budget debate. And you will say: "Ah, you do not get into the budgets. Of course we won't get into the non-budgets. How are we going to get into something that you do not believe, a document that you have not approved? How do you have the defiance of coming here to ask for support for documentation that you have not wanted to approve internally? Why did they not want to approve it, Mr. Torra? You don't believe her? Is it as fake as your republic or as your declaration of independence? Or do they have internal problems? Are the general elections coming and they're there to see what they get, at the last minute, out of the sleeve? Why have they not approved the proposed budgets? Because, in an even normal debate, we would tell you why you did not register the draft budgets in Parliament before 10 October. Because there's one thing, Mr. Torra, that's called the Generalitat Finance Act. I already know that you laws... well, listen, it's a thing that can be left out of band and stuff, but there's a law that says that you have to register the budget before October 10th. They didn't. It's true that it's not the first time it's not done. Catalonia has a record, huh? We are capdavanters in many things. One of them is that we are the only autonomous community that has been in breach of the obligation to present budgets in form for nine years. We don't get into whether you approve or not – no, no –..., if you register them when you have to. Nine years. It's just that there's no autonomous community that manages as badly as you do. And you want a country? Learn to manage an autonomous community first. They don't even know how to approve a budget. This is not a draft budget; it has not been approved. It is a compilation document of headlines, some older than the teletext – because it goes that..., the "most social in history is older than the black thread", and others, therefore, simply numbers that you do not believe, I insist, because you have not approved them. But it is a lack of respect for Parliament. It is that you, when it seems that you can no longer degrade Parliament, are once again degraded even more. They close it when they want to go through the process. Do you remember: "Do you not have to judicialize politics? Well, if you have a sitting or if you don't have a sitting, there is a plenary sitting here or there are committees or there are no committees. That's what it's like to bring politics to justice, huh? Mr. Torra, come on, they're gonna give you a medal. But what Mr. Torrent does is incredible, too. It had a very easy precedent to overcome, which was Mrs Forcadell: to be better president of the chamber than Mrs Forcadell was quite easy. Well, no. And Mr. Torra, as well: being a better president than a man who ran away and left his comrades behind was easy. Well, no. This is a fictitious debate, for fictitious budgets, for a fictitious government. And what happens is that the problems of Catalans are very real. And we need real debates, real budgets and, of course, real governance. We can't get into the bottom of what doesn't exist. There is no draft budget. When you approve, you will come here to introduce it – you will pass a little rice, but good. But if we get into the background, we could talk about you guys stopping repeating lies. When you talk – not only today, but in statements in the press – about the recovery of 2010 matches... Man, Mr. Aragonès, that Mr. Torra doesn't know what inflation is, yet, but you... That Mr. Torra doesn't know how to account for investments in certain matches, okay, but you... It's that they're already very basic things, that I think they're not up to their level. And then what do you do? A very interesting thing, because they have mingled with Mr. Sánchez. Look, the idyll has only lasted nine months. In nine months you can do very interesting things, but it is that you have mimetized. Why? Because you have submitted a document – the one you did not want or approve of – that is made on a lie. Do you really believe...? Mr. Torra, do you really think that you are going to grow in Catalonia a 2.5 this year, which is the basis on which you have made the forecasts? Yeah? The Chamber of Commerce of Barcelona should not know any of this, Mr Torra should know more. Of course it is, of course. The Chamber of Commerce says a 2.1, but if Mr. Torra says it's a 2.5... come on, please, the Chamber of Commerce... these gentlemen will know, and these ladies. Then, they have no matches, some fellow has already said. You are making fake budgets, and of course one thing that is good for the Lords of Podemos and the Socialist Party, which is to inflate revenues – to inflate revenues. And if we were to discuss the substance of these budgets we would ask a question: will you go down taxes to those who earn 30,000, 32,000, 29,000_ euros a year in Catalonia, which is the social majority of Catalonia, which is the working majority, or will you continue to put the biggest axe in Spain in your pockets? Of course, you would. This year they have had the deference to put something in the budget lines of day care. Do you know how much you have put into this fake document? Twenty million euros. It takes a lot of defachation to ask us to approve some non-budgets that include for an entire year of day care the same thing that you put on TV3 in the first week that you ruled in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] You have to have a lot of defachation – a lot of defachation. Let nothing be lacking – let nothing be lacking. Well, for the barracks..., a plan to reduce barracks? No, no, Something to fulfill some of the things that have been approved here about university fees? No, no, Debt: what do you plan to do, Mr. Torra? Do you know how much debt the Generalitat of Catalonia owes? Do you know that? Seventy-seven thousand million euros. What do you plan to do? You're responsible..., it even scares me to say it and verbalize it, but you're responsible for 77,000_million_euros of Generalitat's debt. There are other autonomous communities that are already entering the markets. What are you guys gonna do? I've listened to Mr. Aragonès in some interviews saying that he's reducing his debt. Man, what... [[Funnel veils]] , exact: in proportion, because GDP is growing, but in absolute terms not. That's what Mr. Torra says, okay, but that's what you say, Mr. Aragonès... Then, ATLL: how much have you, Mr. Torra, foreseen for the compensation that we will surely have to pay everyone for your legal expenses? Are you planning something? Are you predicting something about VTCs, which I asked you this morning, but you didn't know much either? Now, that's right, the chiringuitos and the weeds don't touch each other, huh? The 155th committee's chiringuito with 112,000 euros for the president... that doesn't touch, huh? The Office for the Defence of Civil Rights and Politics, 81,000_euros..., that's not what it's about. And we have heard a news that I suppose it will be a lie– you come out here, please, Mr. Torra, and deny it –: won't it be true that you are going to consolidate a salary increase? It won't be true. The government that rules the least in history, the government that works the least in history, the government that closes the parliament the most in history, the government that is watching prisoners and fugitives all day long, is it going to have the defiance of raising wages? I hope not – I hope not – Mr. Torra. I hope you'll lower it, because the less you work, the less you earn your salary. In fact, you often prevent Members from doing their job. And a very basic question, Mr Torra: what are you going to do if the budgets are not approved? What are you going to do? Do you have any plans? Will you be waiting for what happens at the trial? Will you continue to watch the trial at home all day? Will you have to hear what the statements of the prisoners and the accused say to know what you are going to do, or what Mr. Puigdemont is going to tell you to do? Do you have a plan for something? Do you care anything about the reality of Catalans? These budgets have not been approved by the Government of the Generalitat. You don't have a draft budget to submit. What I was saying at the beginning is a very basic thing: we are facing a fictitious debate, a fictitious budget and a fictitious government. But the problems of Catalans are very real, and we need a real debate, a real budget and a real government. And I assure you that as long as you are occupying these armchairs we will not have any of the three things. And I hope you don't have the defachability to consolidate if you raise your salary – I hope. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.305.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr. Miquel Iceta has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.306.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Many honourable President of the Generality, before I enter the matter, I must say that, in this morning's proceedings, you have allowed yourself to question the dignity of my group. I ask you not to do this, but not for me, not for the members of the group, but for the more than six hundred thousand Catalans and Catalans who voted for us. [[Greetings.]] I think it is possible to disagree, and disagree hard, radically disagree, without losing'sel respect. And I think it's one of the contributions we'd have to make from the chamber. And, besides, I remind you that you are the highest institutional representative of the Generality, and that includes some obligations, which I'm sure are not always comfortable. And now, president: look, we asked you to come because you tell us the reason for which you did not submit the assumptions. And he's already told us. He says: "I do not present them because I do not have a majority. You told us that. Listen to me, you don't make me say it, but I'm telling you, if you don't have the majority to rule, you have to take an option, which is to call the elections. You're trying to reverse the burden of proof, as they do, certainly some who want to prove the innocence of the accused; no, no, no, it's the prosecution, in any case, the one who has to prove guilt. You, if you have a draft budget, if you have it, you have to take it to Parliament, and don't say, "We'll only carry it if you tell us you'll vote. I think it's a... – and I measure the words well – I think it's an act of political cowardice. Because, listen to me, if you are so convinced that you have come to a consensus of government that it leads you to have a draft of assumptions of the Generality for this year, your obligation is to approve it to the government and bring it here. They say they want us to look at them: so much so, but to look at it first they have to bring it here. And, truth be told, it's a government obligation. And if he doesn't approve, what happens? Home, there are two lives, which we have seen recently. One, to the Government of Spain: presents assumptions and is not allowed to proceed to processing, calls elections. President Puigdemont, Vice-President Junqueras : they presented a draft assumptions, they did not pull forward, and President Puigdemont decided to present a question of confidence, precisely to make manifest whether or not he had majority confidence in the chamber. But you literally said, "We don't have a majority. But if one doesn't have a majority, he can't rule. And, truth be told, this obligation is not a minor obligation. It is established in our Statute of autonomy, it is established in the Law of the President and the Government. The head of the opposition has also said this: it is in the Law of Public Finance of the Generalitat, before the 10th of October of each year. They can understand that it will arrive later, but it is that on 27th of February they said: "No, no; it will not arrive. If they don't wear it, they can't talk about project assumptions – if they don't approve it. And it's true that it has been said many times before, a virtual republic is a virtual government with virtual assumptions, fake assumptions. We don't like people using this terminology, but the only one who can stop us from using this terminology is you. With a shot of lead, he simply said: "I have gathered the Executive Council of the Generality, which approved this project and transferred it to Parliament for its debate and approval. But it looks like they can't do that. He said, "No, you, in any case, if you want me to go down, present a motion of censure. Look, let's not get into it: one thing is his obligation, and the other is one of the prerogatives or rights that the opposition has. You have an obligation to carry the assumptions. I have no obligation to file a motion of censure. On the other hand, my group just can't, huh? Among other things, you don't have twenty-i-seven deputies; you should be like at least twenty-i-seven deputies or two groups in the chamber. Therefore, it is not possible to confuse what is an institutional obligation with what is an institutional prerogative that has the opposition. You don't have a great deal of government. They're comfortable when they defend a cause, some ideas, but they're not comfortable when they rule, frankly. And we, it is true, find it very difficult to understand why it has renounced an increase of the Generality's entrances of some 1,400_million euros, because it has renounced public investments from the State to Catalonia of 2,200_million euros. We'd love to know how they think to make it up to you. Now, it won't be on virtual assumptions. And even less if it's renouncing a tax reform. Today the vice president seems to point out that maybe there would be elements to debate... we're not thrilled. But you sent a draft of measures to the Labour, Economic and Social Council of Catalonia, and there was no one there. So, us, when can we argue? I repeat again: when the government approves a project and enters the chamber. I do not deny the value of saying: "No, you must approve it even though we have not approved the States. All right. What do we need to put up this support? Home, to know how you intend to make up for the tickets to which we joyfully believe, and irresponsiblely, you have renounced, and also to know whether your government has renounced any unilateral and illegal drift. Because here we're not talking only about public accounts, we're talking about the stability of a government. And you're asking us to establish a government that wants to take us to the secret prison another time? We don't want to go back to 2017. We've had enough, all folds, not more than others. So let's give up that path. We do not want to go back to 6 and 7, we do not want to go back to decisions involving the intervention of our institutions. And until you guarantee us that they won't come back, you can't expect a parliamentary support from us. You have already said that you expected the support of the UPC, that I have not seen them very well disposed, and of the common ones, which I have not known how to see a very great carelessness. We were already excluded, until the groups of those who expected to support them have withdrawn them – then, perhaps, yes. But let's get back to the question. This isn't a total argument of assumptions, it's not. It can only be produced when you approve them to the government and bring them to Parliament. He says: "No, this is a transparency exercise. No, look, no, this is an escapism exercise, which is what this government is doing. He says: "As I do not guarantee that I will approve them, I will not send them, but I will teach them, we will send if anyone picks up. That's what they're doing. And, above all, they want us to be responsible... oh, it's that, poor... it's that if they take them and don't approve of them, like Pedro Sánchez did, like Carles Puigdemont did... the governments, in democracy, have obligations. You say to us: "It will be very expanding, it will be the most social... Look, if you exist, we could discuss it, and maybe you would have some arguments for it, and we might find some arguments against it, but we are not in a position to discuss a draft of assumptions that has not been approved for the government. He says: "No, it is we who are asking everyone's opinion now. You, well, tomorrow the opinion you want, and who wants to give it, so welcome. But here we are in a democracy. And it's said: "No, it's that some want to subordinate the institutions... Listen, the maximum subordinate of the institutions is the government that in accounts of carrying a presupposition to the chamber the penja to the web. [[Greetings.]] It's just that this can't be... We hoped that there would be certain receipts and certain expenditure projects, our economic spokesman told us. We would really like the government to face up to its commitment to finance one-third of the Bressol schools. We wanted the compromise that we have all acquired in our Parliament to lower university fees to be completed, but we can't find the funds. We are very concerned about the existence of more than five thousand empty beds in residences, which require an economic injection to be made available to the people who need them, but we do not see, in this text that they have stuck to the web, king of all this. The lists of Espera – it has been said – will, etcetera. Your virtual project, to say the least, doesn't convince us. Even so, it is working towards the promotion of industrial policies, which our country needs as much as the bread it eats. And, therefore, we don't see that clearly. And so why don't they present the assumptions? Is it because they don't have the majority? Argument, for us, insufficient. Is it that they don't play? Is it that maybe in tax matters things aren't so clear internally, in the execution council? Miri, we don't know. Now, if the reason is what you gave, if the reason is that you don't have a majority in this room, your obligation is to return the view to the citizen, and there is no other solution. And we could also say – I had prepared it for my intervention – that we would like it in some real assumptions, many things in which we can coincide at the level of statements. We would all like to promote a competitive, sustainable, environment-friendly economy that is able to finance the social expenditure we need, promote universities, make policies against gender-based violence, and help young people who want to return. In that, really, we can agree very much. But the discussion, which shows whether they really want to develop these policies, can only occur when we are before a government able to approve a draft law of assumptions and bring them to the chamber. The truth is that we ask them to comply with their obligations, to comply with the State, to comply with the Public Finance Law of Catalonia, to comply with the Law of the President and the Execution Council, to honour their responsibility, to respect the institutions, to govern: to govern respecting the legal framework and to govern thinking about the country's joint venture. And if you really don't see it in color to do it or you don't have the majority enough to do it, give the word to the citizenry, who will know how to make the decision that is the case. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.307.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.308.0	Yes, thank you, President. And good afternoon to all of you and all of you. President, after weeks of asking the government to bring to Parliament its proposal of assumptions, we have finally succeeded. You've been generating expectations, you've been smoking, but what you brought us here today is a proposition of assumptions that doesn't reverse the details, that you haven't even been approved by your government, and that, therefore, is neither social nor expansive, and I'll give you three examples. In the first place, we asked 3,500 places of public residence for dependent people, knowing that there are close to twenty-thousand people who are on a waiting list. What did they bring us? Zero places for public residences. So, as you see, we didn't ask for the moon, we just defended the right to a dignified life, and you failed our great people. For what he does to the Bressol schools, Catalonia would need 80_million euros just because you complicate the law. We demand EUR 45_million, but what we have found is that you are proposing EUR 20_million. Therefore, as you see, we did not ask for the moon, we defended equal opportunities, but you failed our children and our children. And, in the third place, masculinist rapes, a priority for any government, I say – I say. So while, according to the general assumptions of the State, we had a match that increased the resources to fight against male violence by EUR 220 million, what did we find with the suggestion of assumptions that you brought here? So the game is frozen. So, as you see, we didn't ask for the moon, what we were doing was defending the right to live in a feminist country where women don't live with us, but you have failed all the women in Catalonia. President, we understand the situation of political exceptionality that Catalonia is experiencing, it is undeniable, and, moreover, it knows that concern is shared. But fighting repression shouldn't stop us from working too to secure the social rights of Catalonia's citizens. And you're not complete with your responsibility and you're failing in Catalonia. You were invested as president again, and your government, all this time, could have shown that it was aspiring to rule for all of Catalonia, but it wasn't like that. What have we found? So we've found ourselves a government that doesn't rule, and at the most difficult moments that are going through Catalonia, that what it needs is a strong government, that we have a government that is in the arms of degradation up to the critical points of public service, and that has only reacted late and poorly, when the mobilizations were already on the street. A government that has abandoned assembly and citizenship. Because some assumptions, in short, are the most powerful instrument that has a government, and today, and all these months, what we're doing is losing the opportunity to leave behind a decade of austerity and detail. We are losing the opportunity to shield the rights and to draw the timing of a new Catalonia that begins to do justice and begins to give support to all people who have been patenting the crisis these years. But we haven't seen anything about it in the proposal they brought us. And we, after showing our willingness to negotiate social and expansional assumptions from the time of zero– because we know: from the second zero we said we were willing to negotiate these assumptions–, we had to publish and publicly announce our social measures of Catalonia in Comú We can because the government is decided to call us. It's just that if we didn't present our two measures, maybe we wouldn't even be here today, that's the sad reality. Because, from our perspective, it was not a parliamentary process more or to give support to the assumptions of a government because you completed the expedition, it was and is a country issue. But you have been running as a headline and never – we remain honest – have shown a real interest in approving a draft assumptions for Catalonia. We didn't ask for anything extraordinary, and you know it; it was simply to listen to the citizenry. But you've decided to look the other way. I insist, we did not ask for the moon, and you are failing in Catalonia. We demand an effort from the Generality to mobilize resources for habitating. Let's see, if we in Barcelona have been able to approve that 30 per cent of each of the nine constructions is destined to fit, why can't we do this for all of Catalonia? Why? Why do lobbyists and builders threaten compromised institutions like the Barcelona Assembly? This is the sign of our time. Today, the speech dispute that we have is a woman between the underprivileged and the privileged, a woman between the citizenry and the lobby. Another priority that we also presented: the stake for public, feminist and inclusive education. We were talking about financing in truth, and not with pieces – and saying in truth – the inclusive school; we were talking about recovering the teacher's labor rights; we were talking about recovering the generality's contributions to the schools; we were talking about ironing out policies of education; we were talking about doubling the investment in childhood policies, and we were also talking, as it could not be in any other way, about reducing university taxes by 30_per_cent. That's what we've approved so many times in this Parliament, so many times in this legislature and last legislature... And you, instead of trying to pull in and put in the necessary measures and resources, look back on the other side. If we want a Catalonia that has a future and remains able to innovate, we need a public school from the age of zero that does not secret, that continues to be able to social cohesion and that also helps to develop the talent of our children and our children. A society that aspires to be better is also a community of cures, and needs to worry about its great people. And that is why the only way forward that we will have will be with an authentic intergenerational pact that takes seriously the vulnerability of human life. And neither can we forget all the people who need guaranteed citizenship income. It's not a question of charity, it's a question of social justice. And the game you're proposing is so insufficient, so insufficient that it's not up there or what you were asking for when the law was being drafted. As you see, they've forgotten a lot of things in this proposal. But what they haven't forgotten all these weeks has continued to attack the only group of these rooms that really showed themselves willing to negotiate the assumptions. In the version of ''leftconvergence you prefer, you have spoken of not losing 'on questions that are not essential or have accused us of dedicating ourselves to small politics. So the effects of not doing what you call'small politics' can be summed up very briefly. Denominations: We have managed, without making small politics, that Catalonia leads the number of denominations of the whole State. Poor education: we have a middle of 18_per_cent, but it is that in the most vulnerable areas this poor education up to 40_per_cent. Educational investment: the educational investment in the public system..., we are at the level of Peru or Laos. Dependents– the other day the news came out –: eleven_ thousand people have died in a waiting list waiting for a place in a public residence. Passed collapsing to the hospital. More than a thousand young people have had to drop out of college. There are eleven years of different life expectancy between rich and poor areas of Catalonia. These are the fruits of not doing what you call contemptuously'small politics. In fact, in the words "small politics when a public dentist or a public funeral home has been offered since the Barcelona Assembly, and in fact they are dedicated to dropping it off". It seems that for you to defend the common good, the interests and needs of the 99_per_cent of the population..., it turns out that it is small politics. That's his country model, and that's why they won't find us. And they are surprised that these words of small politics, in addition, come from a person who considers himself a socialist, like the Republican Left candidate for the mayor of Barcelona, and that his silent parties, in addition. Where are their values? Where is freedom, equality and fraternity left, which are the ideals that men and women strive to build freer and fairer societies? Where'd they stay? Catalonia is a great town that always – always – is mobilized to defend its rights and freedoms, but all rights and all freedoms, because social and political rights are an indestructible whole for which to fight. We, from the very first moment on, also took care of what we were asking for, and, as I said before, we did not ask for the moon, we asked for things that were affordable, but we knew that if we were to increase social spending, we would see who the inputs were so that we could get this money to make social policies. And that's why we said: a relentless fight against tax fraud – the proposal made to us today by Mr Aragonès is insufficient – a progressive and green tax reform – is also insufficient, as my partner David Cid has already told us – and, thirdly, the approval of the general assumptions of the State – which you two weeks ago carried. Therefore, as I have already said, these assumptions for us were not more assumptions, but they were to be the first step towards a new social pact, but it was not possible. President, without more resources, without social measures of fall, without a vision of the new Catalonia that we need and want, without fraternity and without long look at the time of seeking allies to the State to make democratic politics, we cannot support these assumptions. And I'll tell you in a very easy way: we didn't ask for the moon, we defended and we defended a common country, and you failed it in Catalonia. So that's where they're left with their proposition of assumptions, which hasn't even approved their government...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.309.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.310.0	...because you don't even get it. There you go, President. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.311.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is now the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.312.0	President, we transferred to him that this was a dead legislature, we insisted that the government was dying, and you were replying to us a few months ago, in this very hemisphere, that the assumptions of the 2019 exercise would respond to the rights and needs of the majority. Unfortunately, for whom we know, unfortunately, they do not answer to the majority, but they simply answer to the interests of a minority, and they continue to feel that there has been a way of ruling in this country for the past forty years. You, President, have given us economic and fundamental macro-ades on GDP. We won't give on GDP, we'll explain on people, as seen by the people. People, ours, which is in a situation..., more than 1,600,000 people in material conditions of poverty; from 2007 until now, more than 115,000 mortgage executions; waiting lists to public health that do not improve; students in barracks and chronified barracks as a result of public education, and more than 20_percent of workers and workers with salaries less than a thousand_euro. If all this is transferred to the women, it's still much more virulent, much more violent. Certainly, the women are also the ones who have had to answer before the failure of the good part of the public services through which it is going to be their contribution to there where not above the Administration. We could also talk about other Catalans and Catalans, Catalan gods and Catalans with a total of EUR 23,000_million. We would like to see them, these Catalans and Catalans, who are only gods, feel solidarity with the assembly of the people. And it's about his politics. President, on the basis of the assumptions: 1.700_millions are already directly paying the bank – perhaps you say no, that it is 1.199_millions... This payment of the bank which means the exploitation of the working class, is transferred to the bank. It doesn't mean anything else, it doesn't mean anything more. Its assumptions will not be able to guarantee to leave the precariousness in which most of the public services are found. But, look, beyond the autonomous assumptions and obeying the policies of the troika, you could have done other policies, even with this limitation. They could have done an exercise to internationalize services to reduce costs, to give more services; to put the public sector as a driving force in the economy; a plan to reduce costs in relation to waiting lists or public teaching or against the poor, or a plan to combat patriarchal violence; a public bank, which we have asked of them throughout the legislature, also as an element to transform the economy and to pose itself to the service of the popular classes. And they don't do anything about it. The only thing that they present to us, which does not give us an alternative, is a tax reform, absolutely a tax reform, which does not serve us to give answers to the assembly of the popular classes. And look, we give them respectfully, too, we start to doubt. It is legitimate that today there have been no assumptions, it is his political option, but perhaps they are waiting for some Spanish elections to see if there is a double agreement: agreement between the Spanish Government and agreement between the Government of the Government of Catalonia to exchange investment for assumptions. Because, if not, let's start not hearing anything at all. We tell them that we have not come to this Parliament to make troika policies and to manage precariousness. For us it is kept more alive than ever the independence claim, because it can also mean an opportunity to improve the living conditions of the popular classes. For another band, assumptions like these, which could go beyond the limit imposed not only by state norms, but by the norms of the troika, would serve for that which is so important, to add more Catalans or more Catalans to the construction of the republic. But do we give them, with all kinds of respect, to those who honestly believe that it is now, at the present stage, to expand the social base: how will they expand the social base with assumptions that do not respond to the needs of the popular classes? And we also give them to those, who are sitting here before us, who believe that what is to be done is micro-breaks in relation to the Spanish State, that they are to take small steps to break with the Spanish State: what are you talking about, when we have absolutely binding standards in the State? Obedience to the State? , and while our people continue to run wild.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.313.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.314.0	Thank you very much, President. Today we are witnessing, once more, the harmful consequences of the separatist process in the quality of public policies in Catalonia, and also in the same quality of democracy in Catalonia. I think he's paying to hang on for a moment to analyze the gravity of what he said today. Because what has been said, which is absolutely unheard of, is that here it is only going to present a presumption if it is previously connected through extra-parliamentary mechanisms. It's the denial of parliamentary debate. It is a lack of respect, I insist, unedited to the legislative power, surrounded, moreover, by a cynicism that is sometimes absolutely unbearable. Mr. Torra has rightly told us that it was a formidable proposal. Whom shall we propose if there is no presupposition here? As much as I try to hide the figures – Mr Aragonès has tried very hard – you certainly haven't presented any assumptions. We have witnessed a virtual debate, an authentic simulation and, ultimately, an absolute lack of respect for this chamber, which is deteriorating every time more. And this allows me to put a first reflection on the table. His supposed disobedience in Madrid ends up being a disobedience to the Catalan Parliament and the Catalan institutions, which are degraded by those who claim to be the most esteemed. It has been commented here: Article 32 of the Finance Law clearly marks October 10th as the deadline to present the draft law of assumptions. It is no coincidence that from the year 2012, the beginning of the process, you systematically incomplete this requirement. Installed as they are in a melancholy and utterly ineffective sentimentalism, they paralyze politics in Catalonia. Make sure they can and want to hurt Madrid, but in reality they only hurt Catalonia. It is an absolutely nihilistic and self-destructive process: in Madrid they only make pesigoles, I can assure them; in change, here they destroy absolutely everything. The consequences are very hard, I'll just focus on two. Administrations will have more tickets for the year 2019 than in 2017 or 2018. It was a good time – good time – to lower fiscal pressure to Catalans. And they can't go on with the finance excuse. The current funding model was presented – and I will insist on the times you need – in 2009, and it was presented with these textual words: that it should have been in force for twenty-five years. You did it, Mr. Vice President, your party, Republican Left. Certainly, I have reviewed that you were already a member of the Republican Left Executive Committee; as a result, the current funding model you also approved – you also approved it. Therefore, I do not refer to the financing model again, because they are excuses of bad payer. As a result, it is extraordinarily difficult: this eternal presuppositional extension prevents the reversal of certain social details that must have been assumed in times of economic crisis. There is no autonomous Spanish community that sees a paralyzed appearance. Another thing in which we have a memory: paralysis; in this we are leaders. I insist – and this is an idea that I want to make very clear – that pays for its disobedience is not Madrid, there are thousands of Catalans who could see their social policies better or pay less taxes, at a time that could be perfectly done. The presuppositional debate measures perfectly the salvation of a government, its majorities and the plan of government. Today, it has become clear – and this must be acknowledged that the President has explicitly said so – that they have neither a solid majority nor a government plan. "Governments tend to resign if their assumptions are not approved, it is a democratic mandate of self-requirement. It is not a phrase of mine; it was pronounced, on August 3rd, Mr Quim Torra in a rare ramp of common sense. Will you honor your own phrase? Because, if you have to honor your own phrase in this infrequent common sense, you only have two options: either to present a motion of confidence, or immediately to present the call for elections, because it is obvious that you have neither a government plan nor a parliamentary majority to pull forward. There is an option, which is the presentation of a motion of censure, which we would be delighted to gather from life. You have the option to do so, if you consider it opportune. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.315.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.316.0	Thank you, President. Before I enter the question, I would like, Mrs. Arrimadas, to say that – whether you listen to me or not, whatever it takes – I am ashamed of your attitude today. What's going on is that's not the first time, huh? Look, you shame me democratically. Their attitude towards the courts and our representatives in these courts is an expression of cruelty and explicit inhumanity. [[Greetings.]] You've got us used to it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.317.0	Congressman, congressman, congressman, congressman, demand that language be adjusted, as we have given in the meetings we have had with parliamentary groups. I demand it for everyone, be who I am who has the use of the word at that time. Go on, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.318.0	In any case, we are unfortunately accustomed to this attitude, and that is why we ask you to change, directly and explicitly, this attitude, or to respect for the presumption of innocence, or that it is because you know it, because you know it and have shared it with your duties and time in this same chamber, that all of them are democrats, are citizens who have always acted in the name of their conviction and respect for the general interest of their country. Because all of them are free men and women, members of the government and/or deputies and deputies who, while they were free, always respected this whole chamber, and you the first, as opposed. What you didn't do, they did it for many years. It is the least we can ask of him: that he has a minimum reciprocity in this attitude, the one you have lost, a little more, the opportunity to show. So let's talk about the premise and the appearance. It seems to me that the first one we have to say is that, to see, we are in a debate of appearances that is called for by the various opposition groups as well, huh? And then, when we appear and the government explains itself in relation to this appearance, because it adds to it its own petition and adds to it a sufficient, powerful, clear, and concrete explanation, which responds to their petitions for appearance in accordance with the premise and direction we want to give it, then there is a big scandal because it turns out that it wasn't what they wanted. What they did not want was precisely this: to listen to a president and a vice president who explain themselves, who concretely, who take risks, who say 'yes' and even here. And that's what seems to bother you. Actually, we're not in a presuppositional process yet, we're responding to some comparisons. And we are responding to our own explicit willingness to compare. And it seems to me that it is the least they should, like the least, recognize. Look, what this government is doing is hard at most its level of responsibility, capacity, so to speak, the formulation of proposals in presupposed terms at most, depending on the resources and legal capacities we have today, with rigour and ambition. What we're doing today is starting a debate; it's a debate that's no longer just to extend the list of things..., we can all broaden the list, and it's very easy to say everything that's not yet there or everything we want even more. All right, all right. But I think the debate is beginning to be a priority now: where to add, where to reduce, what is left, what is missing, etc. I appreciate that from the Group of Catalonia in Comú there are questions in this order, because it seems to me that, at least, we are in a land of debate possible, a land of real dialogue, and that it is not the same as, simply, the disqualification of the debate that we have also felt. But let me say some more things, huh? I'm still collapsing this open possibility. We don't know where we should be like the country and the institution, or much less, and the president said so at his first intervention. We are managing, like the Catalan public administration, 13_percent of the country's GDP. But if we compare it in homogeneous terms with the same competitive range as the rest of the autonomous communities, it turns out we're at 10_per_cent, huh? , instead of 12,4_per_cent of the community average. And that's 5,324 million euros less. Or if we compare it..., of course, this is forbidden, compare it to the Basque Country, God save us! Then we would be at a distance, with the amount available to the Basque Country of 13,2_percent of GDP, at 7,037_million euros of distance. So, when we discuss concreteness, ambition, even here or there, maybe we take these questions into account. In this country, you look at vertical discrimination in the financing model, discrimination between the central administration and the rest of the autonomous communities, it is equal to or more difficult than the problems of distribution or quality of the distribution of the model among the autonomous communities. We are witnessing in this country an explicit economic and political re-centralisation, of course, of the Spanish State. Do you know how you've changed the thing from 2010 to now, until 2017, both inclusive? The central administration has gone from managing..., it had 30 and now it has almost 38_percent of this responsibility for spending, and it has increased its weight by 59,2_per_percent. Autonomous communities have increased from 69,2_per_cent to 62,2 and have increased in total volume by 13_per_cent. Well, that's already an explicit indicator. This is when it comes to the autonomous communities that have the skills to cope with the hardest and hardest consequences, say, sensitive, in terms of social quality, in terms of the welfare of the community, when they face the consequences of the imposition of austerity and of the limits of the deficit, as we have been able to feel. It is absolutely unacceptable, in terms of country conception, in terms of state conception. We're paying for all this consequence of this coming from the explicit state. And, look, we're talking about Madrid and its presupposition, because it's gone, too. There, the government party has sorted out the election path, huh? – the president of the Socialist Group reminded us of this. If you can say – we would say in cycling language – a ‘frightening' – a cycling language, you can also say a ‘runaway', so that you don't have to face the real tria that was presented to you. The PSOE could have decided to maintain consistency with the majority of the parliament that allowed it to win the motion of censure, but it sorted out: it preferred to break the dialog with Catalonia and surrender before the triple alliance of the national right, the most reactionary right in Europe. And that's what stopped us from actually entering the Spanish presuppositionary debate. We can't, we don't want to, we never want to bechant presumptuous parties for renouncing the demand for freedom and democracy. And this is the tria that the Spanish State, the Spanish Government, was working on. The sudden interruption of the dialog, including before it could all just start, ended all expectation of agreement in that presuppositional processing. This electoral cycle has, therefore, overtaken the will to agree with the forces which together represented this plural and diverse Spain, which is said to be possible, but which, every time more, seems condemned to oblivion, from the explicit rebuff of this national right that it mana, and mana to incredible limits. In any case, I believe that we can also refer, say, not only to the forms and causes of why the socialist government proceeded with the press and then called for elections, we can refer to the content of that press, and then we will see how far there is an explicit waiver of the defence of fundamental rights, of the defense of the general interest, also of the conjunct of the Spanish citizens, but also of the Catalonians. The explicit failure of the theoretically compromised reversal game in Catalonia in the appropriate proportion, through the additional arrangement of the Statute, which is incomplete a further time. For example, the R4 – designed to sort out examples and illustrations –: how many euros did the Spanish budget provide for the R4, Europe's most insecure rolling stock? Zero, huh? It seems that this is purely superficial and unnecessary. And so we could make a long enough list, for sure – now is not the time. But let me make, lastly, a reference to the intervention of Mrs Albiach, in relation to the more local questions, to the question of Barcelona. This assumption, which we present today, including parties that if they do not approve, will actually have a negative consequence for the city – this yes, eh? –: up to EUR 200_million. If you want, we can... I suppose we'll have a chance to comment on it, to make it concrete and to comment on what happens with the 100_million euros added to the Metropolity Transport Authority, which allows..., is the contribution that must allow the freezing of public transport rates that the assembly proposes. Is that what we don't care about? Do we have to liquidate this public transport tariff freeze? I don't think we're talking about the state either, but now we're talking about our side and the assembly, and we're actually on condition that we actually move forward in this history. Miri, I don't think we need to turn this debate into an electoral debate in Barcelona, but yes, actually, one thing is the electoral fever, which is explicit in the case of the Barcelona Assembly's governing team..., and if we analyze in detail each of the concepts you have mentioned, we can prove it. I'll do it, in faith. But we will also make us feel positive, in the sense of working to have better funeral services, of having better health care services, of having a correct decision on the location of health teams, cultural, etc., of having all the elements that are today on the table and that are beginning with strictly correspondents or coherent with this electoral fever. So they do it. But we do the real debate, the negotiation, the dialogue on this proposal that the government is making today. Do it for Catalonia. Fem-ho for Barcelona...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.319.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.320.0	Make it to the limit. We do it with all the demands, with all our best capacity and, indeed...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.321.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.322.0	...we will be on condition of presenting the processing of assumptions that all of us want and you too. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.323.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.324.0	President, President, Vice President, Councillors, Deputies and Deputies... First, President Torra, because I have made clear the position of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, which is the same as I am convinced that it shares the Government and explicitly the Junts Councillors for Catalonia and you yourself, it is obvious and well known that we want assumptions; we want assumptions from the Generality of Catalonia. This is public and notoriety. Together for Catalonia I want assumptions. That I've made myself clear since the first moment. But to pass assumptions requires a majority that approves these assumptions. And we don't have to forget that last year we had half a year in which Catalonia ruled 155 – and that's evidence –, and the other half of the year the majority that supports the government cannot count with five votes, the result of repression, with five votes that they can't vote. And that's a fact. And that's a reality. And before this reality..., it is obvious that this alters the majority parliaments; as we have been denouncing since the first day our Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia: that repression alters the majority parliaments here in Parliament. And I looked at how it's this way that even if I came back with the CUP, and the CUP came back, which we already see is a little impossible, at these times the assumptions could not be approved, because there's a repression, they're violating some political rights of some deputies, and then there's not the majority to be able to pull them forward. And what's the reality? That we want some assumptions from the Government of the Government of Catalonia, because they are the one that guarantees the state of welfare. In contrast to the assumptions of the Spanish State, which marks some reversal parties that are never materialized, the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia defend and mark the state of welfare in Catalonia. That's why we want more than ever to throw them away. But now we will prove the reality of the parliamentary arc. Let's get our faces and masks. Which parliamentary groups are willing to vote on the assumptions? Which groups? Is the Ciutadans Group prepared to vote on the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia? I already answer them: no; they are not prepared, the Ciutadans Group, to approve the assumptions. Do you hear they're not willing to approve the assumptions? No, no, Because you've given up all responsibility since the first day of this legislature. You've ignored their functions. You have resigned to defend your voters. They have not gone to the meetings of the President of the Generality. Yes, yes, they can laugh, but it is very difficult that the main opposition group does not want to go to the meetings of the President of the Generalitat, which summons them in an institutional form. You've resigned, you've given up defending your voters. You're just talking about shoal, cricket, that if... well, the chiringuite, the fugitive, all that they have used to, looking for cricket, and... they just know that, they've come to do this. And if it should go to Amer, if it should go to Valls and if it should go to Waterloo. [[Greetings.]] But, look, do you know what you find? Do you know what they find? And I can make clear examples – very clear. That here the only fugitives are you, the deputies and deputies of Ciutadans, who have fled their responsibilities. And what did they find in the other song? The open door, as there is the open door of the Palau of the Generality for when they will go to see President Torra. [[Greetings.]] And what did they find in Waterloo, too? The open door, to be able to speak and assume their responsibility as the main opposition group, which they have not done and what they have resigned from all this time. And why did you take advantage of the open door? Take advantage of the open door for which the Ciutadans Group has already used us – as Mr. Albert Rivera did at the time and now as Mr. Arrimadas – : the open door to escape quickly to Madrid, to use Catalonia as a trampoline, as an electoral platform, for what really interests you, which is to go to Madrid to see if you can get a minister's wallet. That's why they take advantage of the open door, and that's why, quickly, they run away. In fact, quickly, they are the fugitives of responsibility. Miri, we don't cheat – we don't cheat. In the morning... and Mrs. Romero gave it to me now; she was talking about responsibility, trust and courage. Mrs. Romero was talking about bravery. I like that Mrs Romero, from the PSC, spoke of bravery. The group of commons say to them: « It is that the PSC is the branch of the PSOE. This seems to me to have been given by President Pujol all his life and he has won many elections in this way. But the reality is that the PSC sorted with whom it wanted to be; it sorted, in dissolving the Parliament of Catalonia; it sorted, in applying 155; it sorted, in ceasing a government; it sorted that this government was not out of the way; it sorted, in supporting a government that had a prosecutor's office that sent the previous government to prison or exile. This was the PSC tria. And the question is: will the PSC – as the commons say, which are the branch of the PSOE – act differently from what the PSOE has done with its premise in Madrid, rejecting the independence vote? The answer is obvious: the PSC will not give support to a premise of an independentist government; the same way it rejects the votes of the independenceists precisely for which Mrs Romero gave, for bravery, because they did not have courage against her own, against Felipe González, against Alfonso Guerra, against the historic PSOE of the eighty years... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.325.0	One moment, one moment, Congressman. Mrs. Romero, you don't have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.326.0	...to be able to claim that your chairman of the parliamentary group was defending, that your chairman was defending, that he was a rapporteur, because the first one he said was Mr Iceta. And, in order not to have the courage to defend a rapporteur for a sincere and honest dialogue on Catalonia's right of self-determination, you preferred not to have assumptions. Does that make your position different from your position here? Well, here we do lack doses of courage and courage, and we have noticed that in these issues, so as not to face their internal conflicts. Mr. Iceta spoke of the highest subordination of institutions. The most subordination we have seen from the institutions was when you gave support to the 155th Senate, and in this sense voted for the dissolution of Parliament and the Government. [[Greetings.]] And finally, to the common man, we've seen that the real reason why you don't want to give support to the premise, and it's good that they explain it, is that elections are coming. The common people in the morning say: "No, it is the PSC that is the branch of the PSOE. It's just that the common ones here are Mrs. Ada Colau's branch. And Mrs. Ada Colau does not want to approve of the assumptions of the Catalonian Government of an independent government, because she is thinking of her election of the Barcelona Assembly. And it's legitimate. But that's legitimate and they don't want it hard in the long run, they don't put up with coherent, sensible, courageous proposals for more social policies, changes in taxation. [[Greetings.]] There are no excuses for a bad payer. They don't stick behind this. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.327.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.328.0	They don't choke. Because, listen, you, the lords of the commons, and the lords of the commons – the companions of the commons – are not very exemplary in these public assumptions. Why, of course, how many public assumptions did the Barcelona Assembly approve during the last parliamentary term? Head-head. Changes in assumptions [[remorse of the voice]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.329.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.330.0	...of the government of Mr. Trias. That's what happened: changes in Mr. Trias's government assumptions. They did not have the courage to face any debate of assumptions at the Barcelona Assembly. This is reality – this is reality. [[Widow's remorse.]] I listened to them very carefully, I asked them...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.331.0	Wait a minute, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.332.0	...that they do, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.333.0	Wait a minute, Congressman. Mr. Iron and Mr. Cid, has the word Mr. Batet. Are they? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] Can I get your attention? [[Pause.]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.334.0	And it is clear that responsibility makes the government act as it does, giving face, coming here and comparing, as did President Torra and as did Vice President Aragonès, as they did, looking for real agreements so that they could bring forward assumptions. And the evidence makes the groups that have to support these assumptions not want for electoral interests. We know that together for Catalonia we do want the assumptions, and that we will fight because this is the way it is, that we are available to the dialog and to the agreement, because the assumptions of the dialog... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes – yes, yes... We are willing to do what is necessary to be able to face it. That's what our advisors did, and that's what the government does, and that's the will we have. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.335.0	Thank you, Congressman. A while ago, you spoke to the... [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.336.0	He's asking for the word for contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.337.0	We'll do it in the end, anyway. I'm now answering to the president. Then they know they have another turn of action, huh? Therefore, they will have the opportunity to say what they want in the Faristol. President, when you say so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.338.0	Yes, thank you, President. They ask for a match and then they complain that we do it. Instead of debate, we have the debate on the debate. The truth is, it turns out that I've asked all of you to do a constructive debate, because I can't imagine how late it would have been if I hadn't asked them. Look, first of all, we're a coalition government, we're a team. And so, logically, this appearance of us has been raised, so... since the vice president has coordinated all the work on the premise, it seemed normal to us, elementary, that both the vice president and I could expose them to what this debate was. Therefore, all this formal question on which this debate has ended, the truth is that, at least for someone who, as Mr.Iceta says, has little political experience, so I haven't really just heard it out of hand. Mrs. Upstairs, look, we've already gotten used to your repeated minorities, it's already something that... I could tell you that we won't even find you missing, huh? But I would ask you, as I believe Councillor Maragall has done, that these fewer people I address to the members of the chamber, no problem, but I do not speak to this whole thing either of President Forcadell or of President Puigdemont. I'm not talking to this whole thing, because they're not there. And that's what they're asking for. In change, try to ask you to focus the debate with responsibility, transparency and dialogue. I understand that they are three concepts that are absolutely incompatible with the city of Ciutadan and, therefore, we cannot have any controversy here. Mr. Iceta in the title of political cowardice, political cowards, right? At these times, Mr. Iceta, bearing some responsibility for government in this country has risks, has high risks. I can tell you everything, to us, but we never have political cowards that we are taking responsibility for governing this country at these times – not political cowards. [[Greetings.]] And I would like to insist that these are the presuppositions of rigor. It won't happen to us what happened in 2010, when one_of_each_three euros that was spent did not have tax coverage at the back. These are the presuppositions of rigor. And on responsibility or irresponsibility, I would like to recall what Mrs.Alícia Romero, on June 8, 2016, during the debate on the draft law of assumptions, in this hemisphere, literally gave to Vice President Junqueras. If you're not like this, you'll fix me already. So, Mrs Romero: "In any case, Mr Junqueras, your responsibility is to present assumptions today, and your irresponsibility – irresponsibility – is to present them without being guaranteed approval. This seems to us to be a very important irresponsibility. He'll tell me exactly what he wants to say, exactly, because he can't be irresponsible and responsible now. We, precisely for an exercise of responsibility and precisely for the situation in this country, have preferred to bring this debate about whether there was a possibility of open, transparent and responsible dialogue with the other groups in the chamber, so that we could, precisely, move forward this way, because we do not believe that just now some elections are convincing in this country, from the point of view of the way, in the situation in which Catalonia finds itself. It is for a matter of responsibility, precisely, that we have brought this debate. It was a question of knowing this: if, before the elections, we were all ready to overcome them, to seek consensus, to find a way before the difficult, political situation that saw the country. And unfortunately we add that no, that in full electoral accounts, again, much more the electoral interests of the parties. To the group of commons: I honestly think that many of the things that you propose are included in the assumption; it is possible that not in the degree of intensity that you ask us, but there are. We have included more housing aids, recover imports for schools in Bressol, we plan to reduce university taxes, 300_millions for guaranteed income, etc. We're recovering the levels of 2009, and it's not easy. And we've decided to address it as many areas as possible. The Vice-President has made a reasonable and reasonable presentation of, at last, the offer of tax and fiscal measures that we propose to them. But I can hardly see that maybe it's not worth more than we insist on. I'm taking myself, so – and I'm sad to say – a no to the dial. But know that for our band the proposition of assumptions will always be in the table. After the elections, I understand that it will be a time when we may be able to speak again. There will always be, this proposal for dialogue. But as you normally talk to us about the shame pots every time you come to the gallery, I would also like to talk to you about the pride pots. I think this country also deserves this point of self-esteem, don't you? And, for example, knowing that Catalonia is the European region that attracts the most resources related to the innovation of the peppers – for example. Or, as I said, the year 2019 with a twilight rate lower than the 10_per_cent barrier. What Catalonia is the territory with the most people occupied by the State. Or that we have the first port contribute of the Spanish port system: the port of Barcelona. And with 0.1_percent of the world's population, Catalonia produces 1.3_percent of scientific articles. Or that three Catalan universities are among the 50 best young universities in the world. What Catalonia is an international referent in organ transplantation. Or that early school dropout is in a 17_per_cent year 2018, and in a decade we have managed, among all, to download it 15.2 points: 2008 was 32.9_per_cent. Or that in exports, for example, we have reached maximum historical levels and we have struck the historical record for eight years as a result, or also the expense of tourists who make in Catalonia. I think it's good that we're also talking about the privilege pots or the pots that make us proud of our country too. At the CUP: I'm sorry to be in complete agreement with what you have expressed. It is obvious that you and we are defending a different model of country, but we thought that the objective we pursue could overcome some of the obstacles that ideologically separate us. It's a big deal. Since the first day I have always said that this was a project for the seventy independent MPs. And he'll be there, this project of assumptions, in case you ever want to come back. And to Mr Fernández: you talk about disrespect to Parliament, about the degradation of Parliament – you. It's just that it's you, you tank it with 155, and you're threatening to lock it back in with 155. It is that, frankly, measure these expressions, because if you think that there is a lack of respect for Parliament, the first one to do is to tell your party colleagues in Madrid, therefore, that they do not threaten more to reapply a 155 to Catalonia. He's the first to do it. Why would the 155 application be supposed to be? Locking up the Parliament? Eliminate the Government of Catalonia? And you think the Catalan parliamentarians will accept it? Do you think the Government of Catalonia will accept it? You, when you govern the State, have not made a pass to help Catalonia; the other way around. Where are the millions of dollars of rain, President Rajoy's promises to drum and silverware? , the 4,200_millions in infrastructure, transport and housing to Catalonia by 2020 that had fallen from the sky? And he didn't do it. And they made the Mediterranean Corridor pass through Madrid. And they'll put him through wherever he is before we have the Mediterranean Corridor that we need. And, finally, yes, I have no doubt that you would support any motion of censure that is raised in this Parliament, and I assume that above all any motion of censure that you present any group of the Article 155 coalition. To all groups: we will continue to rule; we will continue to rule in a particularly complicated situation for Catalonia. We will always continue to offer the dialog to continue returning to the table to negotiate the assumptions; how we will always be available to you at any table to continue talking about the future of Catalonia and its legitimate right to self-determination. And, therefore, I regret that the short play, that electoral preventions do not allow us to present the assumptions as our interest would have been. Yes, Catalunya is worth these assumptions. And I would like to thank the vice president's and all the councillors for presenting the best assumptions that I sincerely believe in these conditions that can be presented to the citizenry. Now, let's not hang on. And so, we'll start working on the presuppositional prorogation. That's what we'll do, but keeping, as I said, as we always do, here and Waterloo, the open doors. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.339.0	Thank you, President. Now, then, as stipulated in Rule 172 of the Rules of Procedure, the parliamentary groups have a new turn, in this case of five minutes per parliamentary group, two and a half, obviously, for the subgroup. It began, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the lady Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.340.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Torra, is that the answer you have given to the groups? Really? Of all the time you had, unlimited, is that the answer you gave us to the groups? Really? Or do you plan to go out again? Because you can go out again. I say it in case you want, I sit down and wait for you to come out again and answer us. Have you heard anything I have said to you? No wonder you close Parliament when you can. No wonder you need to, if you're going to talk, please get Mr. Aragonès out back, see if he can do anything. No wonder you would like to make that party table – which the Socialist Party, as always, there with the floater, helped you – so that you do not see the debates in which you are able to participate, Mr Torra. No wonder you want to make a table of parties I don't know where, opaque, so that Catalans don't see the kind of parliamentary debates that you submit to the Chamber, to the Parliament of Catalonia. I've asked him a lot of unanswered questions. I asked you what you're based on to believe there's going to be a growth forecast of 2.5. I think I would have paid for hearing you talk about growth forecasts, Mr Torra, trying to rebut what the Barcelona Chamber of Commerce says. I asked you what you are going to do with the debt, Mr Torra, to reduce the debt not only in percentage terms because GDP is growing but also in absolute terms. I've asked you about barracks, if you have any plans to reduce them. I asked you about taxes, if you are going to lower tax pressure to middle classes, to lower classes in Catalonia, which is the social majority. I asked him about the salaries. Mr. Torra, don't run away. Are you going to consolidate salary increases in the Government of the Less Working Generalitat? Can you answer that, Mr. Torra? You can go out again, if you like, huh? I asked you about the budget line you are taking, which does not exist. How are they gonna cover it up when that money doesn't come in? I asked him about the places of residence, about the chiringuitos. You were talking about repression. The gentleman who is charging EUR 112,000 to the head of the 155's impact committee and who comes here to talk about repression, comes to him at the end of the month a repression by the current account that, come on, that has not been seen throughout history. The first reprisals in the world that are being provided in the country that is supposedly persecuting them. You have not spoken of waiting lists, you have not spoken of any of the questions we have asked you. No wonder – no wonder – that you close Parliament, Mr Torra. No wonder you have so little respect for this camera. He has not explained why they have not been approved internally. Are you sure it's because you don't want to get approved here? What are you saying, that all the other governments of the democratic world that internally approve your project and bring it to the chambers and sometimes approve them or sometimes not, as we have had the recent case in the Spanish Government, are all irresponsible? Does everyone do it wrong but you? Is it not that you are wrong? I mean, I'm asking. Aren't you the ones who don't work with democratic rules? What will you do if budgets are not approved? Are you going to continue to rule...? , well, "governing, will you continue to charge without doing anything? Maybe he'll charge more, because he hasn't answered me. If you don't answer me, danger. Because if I'd come out here to say no... but since you haven't answered me, you still suspect that you're thinking of consolidating all the pay increases. It would be very serious – it would be very serious – Mr Torra. No wonder – no wonder – that you want to close this Parliament – no wonder. And since you were talking about contempt, I suppose you will have heard the rest of the parliamentary speeches. And then, when Mr. Maragall was calling us inhuman and we don't have humanity... look, and he says with his head, right, Mr. Maragall? You reaffirm that, don't you? We don't have humanity, do we? Do You Reaffirm It? Hey? Isn't that right, he's saying it again? That, for a nationalist like Torra, it has to be like a fine rain, that has to be like a fresh air, that doesn't have to be any contempt. In the forty seconds that I have left I will remind you that calling "inhumans –"inhumans –", denying humanity to political opponents is very typical of nationalism and that is what has generated the blackest pages of recent history in Europe. The European Union... [[Greetings.]] The European Union was created to rid us of the ideology that you represent. That is why you do not let or enter the European Parliament. [[applause]] and call them xenophobes, racists and supremacists. But just as in Europe we have overcome nationalism at other times, we will do it again from Europe.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.341.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.342.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.343.0	There is the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr. Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.344.0	Thank you, President. Most honourable President of the Generality, you are right: the courage to devote itself to politics is obligatory. If, moreover, they have responsibilities of government, more. Now, the courage in politics, as in other human activities, is demonstrated above all with facts and not with words. And when I was talking to him about political cowardice, I meant that if it was true what you said that he wasn't carrying the assumptions to the chamber because he didn't have a majority, so that's not what he's going to do. Now, I don't give him courage anymore, I ask him to honor his responsibility as the president of the government, which is to bring the assumptions to the chamber. Listen, if you want us to look at them, you have to take them to Parliament. This is not an open forum, a civic forum, they constitute, social and multidisciplinary, cross-cutting and multifaceted, this is the Parliament of Catalonia, established for the Statute of Catalonia. So, man, that sounds logical. You're trying to get something that I hope doesn't come up with, I honestly say, is to reverse the logic of things. So, the responsibility of governments is opposition. The responsibility for presenting the assumptions to Parliament is opposition. And then what are you doing? What is his role in the institutional structure of the Generality? And, look, one might say that bringing some assumptions to Parliament without trying to negotiate them is previously fearsome, and that's true. It is opportune, but – I believe so too – it is fearsome. Now, what I can't do is take it to the extreme to say, "It's that if I don't have a guarantee that they'll get away with it, I don't carry it anymore, because this brutally unbalances the balance between Parliament and Government, between a political system that has separation of powers. And I don't know if you've thought that if you don't bring them here, maybe you don't see that you don't have enough majority to rule. But, listen, we've all seen this, this has been credited with this appearance. You yourself, sometimes, believe – and I say it from respect –..., your own speech brings it. You, two minutes ago, have said from this rostrum that it is a project for the seventy independent MPs. He said so. It's that we'll find it in the minutes, in the transcript. So, how do you want to find us here, if you don't see us anymore, if you've already said you're doing a project for the seventy independent MPs? [[Greetings.]] You... your world is independent and coalition 155, and to seek the support of other groups is already the Albert Batet. [[Give me the applause.]] That's his alliance policy. Jo, who still had some kind of doubt that the company, ladies and gentlemen of the commons, and the company of the commons, can come up with some kind of support..., it's true that they make it a little rare, huh? because even disequilibrating his parliamentary group internally is not the best way. But, finally, he thought: "As they are so responsible and so compromised with social policy, they may convince them. But, of course, from certain speeches it is impossible. So, if this is the political report, I think it's failed, it's wrong. And the question that from my point of view is quite inescapable..., because you say: "With the situation that the country sees, we don't agree with an election. Well, that can be said by any government, and they're always right. Now, if a man doesn't have a majority, he can't continue to rule, and he has to give the view to the citizenry. And that's proof at various times. Indeed, with an investiture that you have made, I would say brilliantly from the point of view that you have made it, not everyone has made it. Now, if it turns out that you can't pass assumptions, if it turns out that you don't want to present a question of trust because you have to lose it, it's clear that you don't have a parliamentary support that you can govern. I, listen'm, if I say: "No, I will try to excavate it, I will try to seek it out of truth. But no, because you present even a whole premise thinking only of seventy independent MPs. So it's a big contradiction, President. I don't think today's debate has been a failed debate. We, at least, wanted to know why he doesn't bring the supposition to the chamber. You know that, because you don't have a majority. It is now up to you to take the conclusion to what this evidence brings, which your own words have pointed out and which interventions from all groups have put into evidence this late. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.345.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.346.0	Yes, thank you, President. President, I'll be very brief, because the truth is that I've already told him everything I have to say in the matter of assumptions and, moreover, we see that you haven't answered anything we've raised. So I'll be very short. Here's your assumption proposal, because it's not social, it's not expansive, it doesn't reverse the detail, and besides, it's not even approved of by you to your government. With their suggestion of assumptions they failed our great people, they failed our children and our children and, moreover, they failed all the women. And I assure you, I assure you, this is not election, this is country. And with his proposal for assumptions, they're not at the height of Catalonia or its people. They've shown us, once more, that they're a government that doesn't rule, and that when it's up and it's done, it's late and it's done badly. And today's presupposition proposal has proven it again. So what I would do would be self-criticism: why don't you have the necessary supports to pull this assumption forward? Beyond the alteration of the majority out of the ballot box – beyond that, with all due respect –... but why have they been unable to get us through this parliamentary chamber? Why? I would self-criticise his short look and his lack of country project, because the truth is that you went without a whirlwind and you don't know where you're going. And it has already been said before – and I finish –: we will not ask for extraordinary things, we will not ask for the moon. We defended you, and we defended and defended a common country. But today, one more time, like all these months we're in the legislature, they've failed Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.347.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of the Deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.348.0	President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.349.0	Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.350.0	I tried. Now, thank you. To intervene from the escó. Maybe if I downloaded it, it was a lot faster. In any case, the President of the General has given us an answer to what we did not ask. We were pleased that you answered yes or yes to the one we asked. We will, yes, give answers to the three questions that you have raised. The first of these: that this was a project for seventy Members. So look, Mr President, we have not been ourselves, nor has it been our responsibility, that today, in the House, there are no seventy independent votes. We have maintained a firm position because there have always been seventy independent votes. Second question, related to this. The project of seventy MPs and independent MPs was accompanied by another idea, which was of restitution to the Constitution. And it wasn't the CUP that gave up restitution – we were here on the 30th generation; we were here in other expressions that meant restitution – nor will it give up the Catalan Constitution at the present stage. So, we're not the ones that we're apart from. And you say, with certainty, that we have ideological differences. Important: they'll always be there. And for us this means two questions: the first, that we are an autonomous organization that is socialist, that it is revolutionary, that it is anti-capitalist and that we will not give up. But not only for a class question, but also for a construction question of the republic. The process of country that we have for the construction of the republic will come from the hands of those policies that are absolutely disruptive, from those policies that give response to the popular classes in their conjunction. And the assumptions, which are not formally presented today, but were expressed in this Parliament, are an expression of all the contrary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.351.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.352.0	Thank you, President. Honourable President and Vice President, Councillors..., Two fundamental things from your answer. First of all: you again signify repeatedly, as in the responsibility of the groups of 155, the closure of the Parliament. Miri, first of all, 155 is the responsibility of the former government and the former president, who was unable to call elections when they had to call elections. Secondly: Parliament is closed when Parliament is dissolved because there is a call for elections. And that happens with 155 and without 155. But, in the third place, starting with the month of generation, which was the Parliament, those who were held closed were you; first, proposing impossible presidents, and then proposing impossible advisors. And until June, they weren't able to articulate a government that you can start running the Parliament. Even with this, then, the fruit of your internal discussions, it was you who suspended Parliament's plenary sessions. Then, you have been the ones who, some days for a supposed vague, some other days because they have to follow the judgment, and some other days for incompetence, repeatedly suspend commissions from this Parliament. Therefore, I did not attribute to others the responsibilities of their parliamentary groups, such as the Parliament's "lock-in" between comets, or the Parliament's lack of activity. And in the last place, I think that from your words in the last intervention we have discovered why you wanted to bring us here with this false argument of assumptions: to renounce the presentation of assumptions. And that surprises us a lot – that surprises us a lot – because when a government is unable to present some assumptions – and there have already been other spokespersons – it has two outputs – two; not the one not to present assumptions –: one, or to resign and call elections immediately; two, or submit to a question of confidence. You can't come here to Parliament to take responsibility for the lack of assumptions to opposition groups. Their responsibility, the responsibility of their government, is to present assumptions. And if they're not overtaken, they fold and call elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.353.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.354.0	Yes, thank you, President. See, it seems to me that what I'm going to do is send them to all of you the very long list of governments that haven't sent any assumptions and continued to rule, huh? , and that they have used the technique of presupposition prorogation in all sorts of situations, in all kinds of chambers, with all kinds of majority and minority. Because it seems to me that here, finally, there is a certain phariseeism in his general attitude about this debate: there is a denial of what is one of the practices and democratic habits. Here we've done better, because it's obvious that we're on condition to manage an extension, and it's obvious that we're on condition to rule by decree, to hear 'us, as President Sanchez will somehow do, supposedly, according to the vagina things – or would, if you didn't call elections. So here we are, let's say, in conditions of absolute democratic parliamentary tradition. What you don't want is to enter the content, because what you know is that the content you have in front of you is an actual content of the presuppositional offer that is at its bottom, and that is at its bottom..., of all of you. And actually, what we're doing today is opening up a possibility, a clear window of opportunity for all of us. They can collect it and reject it. I still want to trust that the window of opportunity remains open, that we have lives, paths, opportunities and contents to get into every detail; obviously, without giving up maintaining the balance, without giving up the rigour we have to demand in relation to the basic magnitudes of the assumption: to the reduction of the deficit, to the success that represents the reduction of the deficit that we present; to the success that represents the increase in the weight of the debt that we are presenting; to the success that we can increase the assumption in a 7,4_per_cent respect 2017, so that the growth of the economy is of 2 and a half percent; to the success that it represents that the Government is an economic agent of first importance in the economic recovery of the country. Let's just say that, all this, which we're talking about clearly, is that we're... that you're rejecting the hand that the government has offered you today. I hope not everyone. I hope we have a chance that this mother is maintaining and finding interlocution, I find someone else with whom to effectively share the debate and without compromise, or without last resort, without conditions. Let's do it here, let's do it in Barcelona, freely, honestly, responsibly... Don't worry, Mr. Cid, I'm seriously taking Barcelona's presupposition. I demand that you take seriously this premise and that of Barcelona. And it seems to me that we are obliged to do so, to discuss both ends at the end. And that's what we'll do when we're in Barcelona, that we don't have it. There's no presupposition yet. They don't give us lessons in suspense. A gathering that has not yet, even so alone, done more than present a press wheel, and today they complain that we are still here discussing it in their parliament. Home, please. Madame Arrimadas, to end. Look, nationalism is what you do every day and again; what Mr. Rivera does; what he does... I'll send him the times he mentions. [[remorse of the voice]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.355.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.356.0	... the word "Spanish in your speeches, the times when you need the Spanish flag systematically. They only know how to talk about it. It's the only idea they have in mind, the idea of Spanish nationalism, that they use it precisely for..., already from its origin. If I remember perfectly how his political history began: they started it against this country, they started it against social reality, against educational reality, against the linguistic reality of Catalonia. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.357.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.358.0	And they hold on to it and add a little more to it every day. So if we now add to its nationalism the agreement with Vox, explicit, then I don't talk about Europe. Don't talk to me about Europe, because then I'll tell you clearly what's going on in Europe: that this is the nationalism that is destroying Europe. The alliance with matches like Vox is what is destroying the European Union at these times. We can discuss what you mean by inhumanity, we'll discuss it, eh? "Inhumanity is to wish for his comrades who remain in prison forever. This is inhumanity, and it seems to me that I am saying it clearly. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.359.0	There is the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.360.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillor, Councillors, Members, Members, it is confirmed that the parliamentary opposition groups do not want to take responsibility and give recollection to the assumptions; that the debate, as Mr Maragall rightly said, is a debate of the Pharisees, who want to see that it is one thing and the reality is that it is another. For what he does to the PSC, Mr. Iceta said there was no majority. And it's true, Mr. Iceta, they're missing... there are five deputies who don't have their rights and who can't count their votes. And the majority here will be vulnerable to the Parliament of Catalonia. And the majority that made possible the investiture of President Torra, this majority that made possible an investiture of President Torra, now could not make it possible to approve some assumptions of the Parliament, because the Spanish State, with its complicity, with the complicity of the Socialist Party and the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol, has validated that the political rights of President Puigdemont, of Josep Rull, of Councillor Turull, of the Lord..., the vice president of the parliamentary group, of the Jordi Sánchez, that the Lord Comín cannot vote; this is the violation of rights. And here's where you don't remember the democracy and basic political defenses of a democratic state like we defend here in Catalonia. Mr. Rodriguez, I have to tell you that I have disappeared from your intervention, because you have consumed a real fact: that it is you who decides when there will be elections here and when there will be no elections, which is the People's Party. "It was that elections were to be called and that he didn't call them, so that's why we applied 155 because the president didn't..., he had to call elections. You? Who convenes the elections of the Parliament of Catalonia, as the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia marks, is the President of the Generality, it is not you – it is not you. And you, to be able to do so, have agreed all of you to apply 155. And that's going to cost them all their lives, the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the Citizens. Because Ciutadans, at times, is a game that, yes, strike, attack and blaspheme President Torra..., in it are the champions. There must have been this trampoline in Madrid that Mrs. Arrimadas used. That's right, huh? This is where the champions are. And I have to tell you that, listen, it's really very worrying about the use of language that you use here in the Parliament of Catalonia, Mrs. Arrimadas, as they have converted it. This was not normal in the Parliament of Catalonia. You, who are the ones who deal with Vox, few lessons can give us. Miri, attack President Torra, but in change – in change –, when the founder of his party, Mr Arcadi Sword, makes some shameful statements..., yes, Mr Arcadi Sword founded Ciutadans. He makes some shameful statements that even the Dincat, which is the Catalan federation of intellectual disability, last a lawsuit against Arcadi Sword for hate crime, the fruit of his words and his offensive writings about people who have Down syndrome. In this, you defend your founder..., in this we don't feel them – we don't feel them. This is the double measuring rod that you have, that Dincat presents a hate suit against Arcadi Sword and you make it look like nothing else, and use any language insulting here in the Parliament of Catalonia. They won't find us here, with this country they won't find us, we won't fall for his trap. We will keep the door open, and you, meanwhile, to take away your responsibility from the voters who voted for you, Mrs. Arrimadas, runs away and goes to Madrid to see if they give you a portfolio of ministries. This is the trampoline and the way Mr. Albert Rivera did it, and now we see that it's the trampoline that you want to apply. That the citizens of Catalonia take note, of which is the paper of Ciutadans. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.361.0	Thank you, Congressman. Yes, Mr. Iceta, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.362.0	For direct allusions of Mr. Batet. Miri, briefly...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.363.0	One moment, one moment, Mr. Iceta. I think they've all gone along with everyone. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I don't know exactly which one you're referring to. Anyway...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.364.0	Mr Miri, who has held the Socialists responsible for judicial decisions, and who has held the Socialists responsible for certain Members not having a right to vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.365.0	Mr. Iceta, they've all gone along with everyone. You also spoke to other Members. [[Widow's remorse.]] I don't think that's...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.366.0	Well, his bias is obvious, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.367.0	All right. Keep going. Mrs. Arrimadas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.368.0	On a point of order, Mr Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.369.0	Say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.370.0	I would like to know what your criterion is when you withdraw the floor. Because the other day, in a control session, I told Mr Torra "don't be nervous, you interrupted me, you took time away from a control session, and today I have seen Mr Maragall address my group and my voters as inhumane and you, for you have done absolutely nothing. So I would like to know what criterion you have to withdraw the floor from Members of this House. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.371.0	Madame Arrimadas, you're not right. As you've seen, I stopped the congressman and told him not to use expressions of this type. Later, the second expression was not exactly like the first one, which seemed to me to be crossing the limits of what we had granted, Mrs. Arrimadas. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, it's already, Mrs. Arrimadas, we won't get into a debate. I'm responding to my... no, ma'am Arrimadas, no. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Why ask me the word, Mrs. Arrimadas?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.372.0	Question of order, Mr Torrent, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.373.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.374.0	I would like to know why I withdraw not only the word but time for intervention, when I simply said not to get nervous.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.375.0	Mrs. Arrimadas, no, we're not going into a debate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.376.0	I would like to know what the Presidency's criterion is to know what statements can be made or cannot be made in the Catalan Chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.377.0	Madame Arrimadas, I've already commented to you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.378.0	No, he didn't mention anything to me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.379.0	...I've already explained it for what it does to the case, today. I intervened when it seemed to me that I had to intervene in the case of Mr Maragall. I told him that he would speak, in any case, to you who had the use of the word, and in this case he continued with the deputy Maragall. So...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.380.0	But, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.381.0	No, listen, I'm not going into a debate. Madame Arrimadas, you don't have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.382.0	...he didn't answer me because... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.383.0	Keep going. The motion which was originally planned at this point, at the new point, the motion following the question to the Government about the "papers of Salamanca...", I think there has been a consensus with the parliamentary groups because it is possible to see tomorrow morning, at the late morning, is to say, at one in the middle. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the occult negotiations between the President of the Government of Spain and the President of the Government of Spain]] [[302-00065/12]] Therefore, let us now proceed directly to the point of the order of the day, which is the motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the occult negotiations between the President of the Generality and the President of the Government of Spain ; presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.384.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon. Well, these days, as I was preparing this motion, I realized to what extent we have come to this Parliament, or to what extent those who have not understood that it is here, in this chamber, where we are all represented – all of us. So much so that a motion must be tabled to remind them that this is where the issues concerning the Catalans must be discussed, not in parallel structures and not in invented bodies, which, however pompous you give them, cannot supplant the functions of Parliament. Someone imagines, for example, a mayor saying: "Hey, look, you know what? , that from now on, instead of voting in plenary, we are going to make the assembly of elected; I meet here at my house with my friends and there we decide things. Can anyone imagine this? It's just that we'd all be shocked. Well, that's exactly what's going on here: the dial table, the party table, the election assembly. Infinity of parallel structures that are being created to empty this Parliament of content, not to have to respect its rules and to silence the opposition. I mean, you shut down Parliament every time you think it is and nothing happens here. They interpret the Rules of Procedure to their liking, as we saw here this afternoon with the President's appearance; as has happened a few minutes ago here, we do not know when they cut the microphone, when they do, on what criteria. You do this here, as if it were your courtship Parliament, and here absolutely nothing happens. Do they not see that this is the only way to degrade this institution? I mean, so far you've been very lucky with the government that's touched you. Yes, yes, with the Government of Spain that they have had; lately with a president, like Mr Sánchez, who has preferred not to know the truth of what is happening in Catalonia and has tried to convince us that there is normality here. But how is it going to be normal, if a motion is required to recognize the equality of all citizens before the law? a motion to demand that judicial independence be respected, that the work of judges be respected, and that they be protected. Today, the Justice Counsellor said she doesn't like some actions. He referred to these acts that we have seen, vandalistic, of the CoRs throwing excrement at the doors of judicial headquarters. I have sincerely missed a strong condemnation of these attacks, because they are intolerable and because it is also their responsibility as a counselor to protect those people and those public servants who work in the Catalan courts. Really, today with this motion you will have the opportunity, if you really want to condemn these attacks, to do so. We have come to a point where we must remember that the primary function of the institutions is to address the real problems of the people. I wonder: the people who are watching this debate at home, what should they think when they see that here we have to remember that it is our duty to seek solutions to the problems of everyday life, so that we do not have to wait months to take a medical test, to not have minors sleeping on the floors of the police stations, to face the lack of housing, the lack of opportunities for young people. Problems affecting all citizens, regardless of the ideology that each has. I mean, what should these same citizens think when they hear the President of the Generalitat say that these are minor issues? Because you talk a lot about doing politics, but I wonder: what is it for you to do politics? Twenty-one points of infamy? What should these same citizens think when they read that document and see that there is not a single point or one that they think of? So are we going to solve the fracture that you have created, the social fracture, saying that the police are oppressive, that justice is Francoist, saying that we live practically in a country that is a dictatorship? Do you really think that helps? Do you think it helps to have a mayor who gets his chest out when he attacks a councilman? Do you think it helps to be proud when the separatist radicals come out to wipe the soil that we tread lightly? Does anyone really think that helps? That is, if you really at some point thought of all Catalans you would withdraw those twenty-one shameful demands that exclude and obviate more than half of the population. If you really understood the reality of Catalan society you would understand that this document is an insult and a humiliation to millions of Catalans. It's that you're already invalidated to talk about political solutions, because you don't even see half of Catalonia. Today I propose something that perhaps seems revolutionary to some, but that is that it is basic in democracy: accept the plurality of Catalonia; stop scorning the majority of non-separatist Catalans and do not speak on behalf of all Catalonia. I mean, it's the only starting point in democracy and it's the opposite of what you propose with that road map to the abyss. And as long as you don't understand that and continue in your bubble you can already talk about dialogue, that the only one who is going to buy it from you is Mr Sánchez, the others don't, because it is that dialogue to impose your road map is not dialogue, it is blackmail; dialogue to see if you break the Constitution there, touch or time, it is not dialogue, it is blackmail. And don't hesitate that we will always be next to solutions and opportunities, but we will never – never – give in to their blackmail, so with Citizens don't count. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.385.0	To present the papers presented has the word, in the first place, the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez. [[Pause.]] Mr. Santi Rodriguez, when do you want to, huh? [[Pause.]] Listen, we can wait a little longer than we can agree, but not forever, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.386.0	[[The speaker began to speak without using the microphone, a word for which the first words had not been recorded.]] ...group and sometimes we get lost of who carries everything. Well, the document of the twenty-one points is not surprising from the point of view of propaganda and is not surprising from the point of view of victimism and the narrative that the independence parties have always wanted to impose. It is part of the alleged claims, of the grievances on which they base their speech, the basis of their account, and what is most worrying, the basis of their inaction and inactivity in this Parliament and thus also justify the accommodation with which members of the Government of the Generalitat are absent on a permanent basis. But what surprised, and a lot, and implied a turning point, I think, to our recent democratic history is that the Spanish Government, for the first time, gave up its functions. The Government of Spain, for the first time, allowed independence propaganda to enter the institutions of the State, thus weakening the foundations of our democracy. Because the one who must defend, because the one who must respect the frameworks of our democratic coexistence, which are the consensus that we have given ourselves in the constitutional pact, accepted the surrender of that document, accepted and endorsed that document. Because if President Sánchez had not made it his own, if the Socialist Party had not wanted that document to be a valid document, then the negotiation of the budgets with the independenceists would have stopped. What would have happened if the Government of Torra had not acted with disloyalty and had leaked that there was a mediator requirement in the negotiation? That the government of Sanchez had perpetuated the infamy of accepting... independence propaganda entering the institutions. That is why we need to demand that constitutional pact, that pact of equal rights, that pact of freedom of all Spaniards, of equality of all Spaniards, regardless of where we are going. Let us do it here, in this parliamentary chamber, always remembering what to those who want to forget about it, but also do what..., those governments who intend to make their own the independence discourse so as to follow one more day in Moncloa. That is why the Sánchez government had to call elections, because we caught them: we caught them ruling, we caught them accepting the proposals of the independenceists, and Spanish society gave him the democratic answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.387.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.388.0	Well, good afternoon, thank you very much. Again, a new citizen's youth who did not go beyond what Mrs Roldán said she was going to go, because that did not even equal the citizens before the law, nor did she respect the institutions, nor did she respect the sovereignty of Parliament: it went from more confrontation, more tension, more manipulation, more vision on the side and more desire to confront one time and another. This time we thought we were going to be builders and purposes, and we made statements. We thought that by making papers we might try to get to some position or writing that we could share and lie down, or as we said at least to talk about how you see it and how we see it, but we didn't get any answers, they didn't tell us: neither a trick, nor a message from WhatsApp, re. They don't want to talk about what we can have in common and we can work together, because they don't want to, because they actually want to keep fighting, fighting and fighting alone against the rest – less against the People's Party and Vox, that's also true. Look, in the phrase we presented, from point 1, we simply proposed to take the text that the Statute of Autonomy says as defining what the Parliament of Catalonia is. No, no, They didn't come back. We also respected the role of the General Courts and the equality of citizenship before the law. We proposed to them to take those parts that they do is to seek tension and generate conflict. But, of course, if we had this, we had no sense of it, nor were they interested in defending the role of the General Courts and the equality of citizenship before the law. The best way to respect the roles of institutions is not to use them as a trigger between citizens and citizens, between political parties. This is not the best way to respect the institutions or the sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia. And that, as my fellow Member would say, is the first of political relations and political action. The judiciary. So yes, indeed – we agree, obviously – it is one of the foundations of democracy, and it must develop its functions independently, and it must guarantee the equality of all citizens before the law. But we also know that it is a judicial power – above all the dome of the judiciary – clearly ideologicalized. For example, I clearly respond to heteropatriarchal principles, and we have seen it in feelings such as that of La Manada or that of Juana Rivas. So no, we don't think we're going to listen and respect all the feelings, because many times these feelings, even though they come from justice, are clearly unfair. Or like the taxes on the bank, because justice, above all the judicial dome, is also..., to the interests of the great economic powers and also obeys political interests, as we also saw with the whatsapps that escaped from a senator of the People's Party referring to the court that is judging the people prosecuted for the independence process. So no: we cannot agree with the judicialization of politics, we cannot agree with the politicization of justice. The local security forces of the State: play a role in ensuring public safety and security. Isha showed all the support, all the respect. But I can't say it's all right either. It cannot be said that the charges of '1 October are valid, that the charges that have been made against vagrancy committees in general waves and in demonstrations are valid, that the charges that were made during the 15-M are valid, that the ull of the Ester Quintana and of the Spanish Roger are valid. No, they're not, they're not. Neither the security forces of the State nor the autonomics nor the premises. We repeat ourselves in the defense of the dialect, of the political fate of the conflict, and ask them once more, at the risk of another time falling into an empty bag, which I cease to confront, which I cease to provoke, which I cease to speak and attempt to generate social fragmentation and apocalypse. The majority of Catalan society in Catalonia, but also the majority of Spanish society, is in favour of a dialog and a political exit. Only you and your Vox members and Mr. Married are not in favour of this. We have had doubts in the last few moments, because they have heard us say more than once, that effectively the government of Torra-Aragones is a government that does not govern, but it is not a matter of loyalty or fraud, it is a matter of bad governance: it has nothing to do with a democratic fraud when a government fails to govern. When a government rules poorly, therefore, it does not approve of assumptions, as we see it. But that has nothing to do with democratic fraud, or with democratic complacency. So, as much as we have tried – we have tried to be able to work and build together a motion on the equality of people before justice, on the separation of powers and on the things that are really at the base of the right state – it has not been possible. That's it. Maybe we'll keep trying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.389.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is the return, now, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, of Mr Ferran Pedret. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.390.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Counsellor, Members, Members: we, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance, have the perception that the motion that is presented, following the inquiry on the hidden negotiations between the Government of Spain and the Government of the Government of Catalonia, presents some problems of congruence between what it announces in the title and what it tells, eh? Finally, the congruence between the content of the inquiry and the content of the motion. But as it's not up to us to admit to trial and qualify the initiations, so we need to participate in the debate that's going on today. Maybe the only point where there's actually a connection to what the title announces and what it's said at the length of the inquiry is the sixth point, huh? A point in which he insinuates, but did not just say, to what the title says, and which he had said with all roundness the Ciutadans spokesman in this debate. Look, I think it would be good for us to agree on the substance of the question, because it respects the concrete content of the motion, as I say, we do not share the literality or the way of expressing some of the questions that you pose, but this will not be an obstacle to us being able to support it, because they make a series of observations on the role of the institutions, on the role of the Parliament – which is irreplaceable, according to the State, in its representative function of Catalonian citizenship, and meaning that it is irreplaceable in its functions – and thus follows the rest of the points, making a series of observations on how the institutions are to function, on the respect of the institutions, that in their functions they do not seem to be fully shared. It's not that much with the sixth point. But in any case, I think we'd better get to the bottom of this. I mean, there are political forces here that claim the support of the citizenry and get it: they got you 1,100,000 votes; with what political project? I'm asking. Because you called for a sense of shared identities, a sense of Spanish identity in Catalonia, and you called for a reaction against a secession process that, in fact, there were a lot of people in Catalonia who were against it. But to do what, then, of this support? Because the truth is that we have not seen any proposal on the table, no common project for the city and citizen assembly of Catalonia and the municipality of Espanya that can be illustrative, that can build a majority that is enough for, either to close the support to the current institutional framework, or to reform it into what is needed because it continues to count on a broad consensus. And they've demonized the political dialogue. Here we just see another example in the words of the People's Party spokesman, huh? Certainly, very concerned always about the formal equality between citizens and citizens – Article 14 of the Constitution – but then, when it comes to providing material conditions because this equality is real and effective and to remove the causes of inequalities – what we could say about Article 9.2 of the Constitution – here, as your most recent expression would say in a famous press conference, here already, the thing is going in another way. But, in any case, we've felt like demonizing the dialog: it's a betrayal, it's a humiliation... The fact that some who don't think like us plant what they seem to have, that they put on the table their poses, the simple fact of having rejected it, is already a betrayal of Spain. By the way, how little conceptual distance is there between what some botiflers and traitors tell us and what others tell us about vendettas, huh? What a little conceptual gap, huh? What symmetries, nationalisms, one thing and another. And we're still about to see the person who tells us how we get out of a situation of polarization, or institutional blockade, of deep social and political conflict, without talking to those who think differently and who so much need to ask us, in papers, postulates that we can't share. What were we supposed to do? We had to do it – if 'nsha said, no? – an absolute break from any negotiation, a backsliding jump? We should do what it forbids, by the way, the Law of Procedure administered in the registers, which is not covered by the document, right? Do as I don't understand, don't touch it because I'm a traitor. No, listen, it's just that when we talk to you, too, it's about your layouts and papers that we can't share in absolute. And you have made assumptions that are overly unconstitutional, such as the claim to apply a minimum of 155 permanent, and of a permanent suspension of Catalonia's autonomy, which is that there is neither complete nor well read article 155 of the Constitution...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.391.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.392.0	...or the conjunction of the Constitution. So, what do we have to do?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.393.0	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.394.0	Don't we have to talk to you, either? We need to talk to everyone, get out of the situation we're in. With everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.395.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.396.0	Each and every one of their landings. I'm done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.397.0	Time's up. Thank you. [[Some applause.]] On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the word, now, Mrs Marta Vilalta's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.398.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon to everyone. Miri, in a sincere way: what more sad paper Ciutadans, what paper, not only sad, but irresponsible, Ciutadans, and what paper perillos – yes, also, perillos – Ciutadans. Trist, irresponsible and dangerous when they criminalize the dialog, when they pursue the negotiation, when they attack the word, when they want to condemn the action of dialogue. What are they doing here, then? Why are they a political party, if they get the dialog, if they condemn the word? What are you doing, what are you guys doing? What is the conception of the policy that you have? We know this: the policy of a matchmaker, of photographs, of posters, of natural provocation, of bringing us to court, of a complaint against a complaint. But you don't see it? It's a sad, irresponsible, dangerous position. We saw, for example, a few days ago when they called a demonstration in Madrid from the hand of Vox, from the hand of the fetish, from the hand of the ultrathreat, asking "no to the dial". They can anger them, and they can hate them, the stomach, instead of the brain and responsibility. What don't you see, that more than 80 percent of Catalonia's defence citizenry is in favour of a political solution, a democratic solution, and that means a dialogue and negotiated solution? And not only the majority of Catalonia's citizens, but also the majority of Spain's citizens. A few days ago, two newspapers published that most Spaniards bet for the dialect to face the Catalan conflict. According to these two studies, both in The Journal of Catalonia and in La Vanguardia, more than 52_percent of the Spanish population said that it is in favor of the dialog. And then they present to us this young man, who cannot be taken for granted, who only wants to build his criminalizing narrative of political rivals. And they say, to the young man: in democracy, the institution that represents Catalans is the Parliament. All right. So, tell me why they've been pursuing this Parliament's policy and bringing it to court. Why, as accomplices of 155, did they carry the democratic legitimacy of this Parliament and have placed the policy in the Supreme Court, as these days are seen? Why did they do this if Parliament is the sovereign seat of the people of Catalonia? [[Greetings.]] And they're talking to us, in this young man, about more fears. That we are all equal before the law – effectively – and that we all have to assume that the courts and tribunals must perform their functions independently and freely and comply with their pronouncements. And even more so, they show their respect for those who are under pressure and coercion. Very well, if it wasn't, dear, that you pass without shame a bus saying "No to the pardons, and pointing out already as guilty President Puigdemont, Vice President Junqueras. Where is the presumption of innocence left in this case? Do we have respect for the courts in this case? They're already being judged. You already judge people before there's a trial, and even more so, it's not a fair trial. That's how I hate it. Or when its leader, Albert Rivera, published to Twitter the photographs of the new professors of the Palau Institute to debate the class. You're indecent. What about your respect for the state of law, in that case? Aren't there pressure and coercion, what I did with this tweet, publishing the care of these teachers? And it is also in this motion where they refer to the Declaration of Human Rights, the Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Convention on Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, standards that effectively proclaim equality before the law and that no one will be excluded from belonging to an ethnic minority, a national minority or their political opinions. And it's hard for us not to see discrimination on the grounds of ideology when the Jordis, when the Carme or when the prisoners and the political prisoners carry some of the five hundred days in pre-trial detention – with very little evidence, for sure, as these days are seen in court – while the fascists who assaulted the Centre Blanquerna in Madrid, with a firm sense and with explicit violence, because they saw it all, continue to be free not to cause irreparable damage to them and their families, and hold the bar to say that justice is the same for everyone. In any case, thanks for giving us the ABC of human rights at the international level, because we are precisely the rights to which we refer when we defend ourselves and when we denounce the rights that are being violated in Catalonia. But we are glad that the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, ratified by the Spanish State in 1977, has legal obligations towards a series of civil and political rights, such as the right to self-determination, so you say this international pact. First, "All peoples have right to self-determination. Look, yours is a position, as I gave it to the beginning, every time sadder, every time more irresponsible, and not just sadder and irresponsible, but every time more dangerous. We will always continue to defend and work for democracy, for institutions, for phonenal rights and, yes, for dialogue and negotiation, it is clear that yes, because if there has ever been an empty fall, as Oriol Junqueras said this very week, it was that of the Spanish State, which did not want to negotiate and listen...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.399.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.400.0	...I finish, President, the clam of much of Catalonia's citadel. We work for everyone's rights...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.401.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.402.0	...also for your rights. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.403.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is the return, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Mr Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.404.0	Okay. Members of Parliament, President of Parliament, Councillors, Vice-President, good evening or good evening. After a new demagogic festival, therefore, I will try to speak clearly, because before the demagogic it is time to speak clearly. "You have to travel, you have to see the world, you don't have to talk. This was said in Capri in one of his most celebrated monologues. So, lords of Ciutadans, they have traveled, they have seen the world, and their journey to the heart of Europe, to Waterloo, has been a success. Welcome back from Belgium, where the courts have said that President Puigdemont and the councillors in exile are free people. Thanks for recognizing exile, thanks for recognizing the authorities, the moral and symbolic power of President Puigdemont and his government. They did very well, thank you very much. [[Greetings.]] Now there is not Mrs. Arrimadas, Mr. Carrizosa also, perhaps they are already on their way to Madrid, but in any case, thanks, Mrs. Arrimadas, to help explain to the world that Catalonia has a president in exile. Thank you very much. And thank you also for your infinite consistency. Find out where they're doing the same thing: they like the mess, the cocoa, the shit and the haystack. And bad manners. Consistency is to exhibit the same in this young lady who defended Congresswoman Roldán than in the week-end releases to Amer and Waterloo. You, in Parliament and wherever you go, exhibit incapacity for dialogue, allergy to speak and to listen. If politics is to speak, propose, reason and parliament, and you, Mrs Roldán, do not know how to speak, nor reason, nor listen, well – well – well – what are you doing here? What do they do? Can you explain? You're a monologue. You need– or Mrs. Arrimadas, or Mrs. Roldán, in the same cast – a platter, and the Parliament is not a platter. You're marketing and you're angry people. Solvency and speech, intellectualism, is the same, as you yourself or as Mrs. Arrimadas recognized an advisor of hers in a television report 15 days ago. The truth is the same – it's the same. The important thing is the appearance, because you are the sign of each dimension, with Dina 4, the mock signs and four repeated phrases. But above all, and that all this Parliament has made clear, Citizens is an infinite allergy to the truth and to face the policy of truth. Do they know what politics is? Talk. Talking is politics. Even talk about how to talk, Mr. Pedret, sometimes do that, talk about how we talk. It's a first gesture, it's recognizing the opponent. But you do it for and go down when you see an open door. Their cowardice is superlative; they are, effectively, as Congressman Batet said, a fugitive from responsibility. They have seen these days their deputy spokesman, Ms. Melissa Rodriguez, eating the world – which is brave – saying that President Puigdemont would not be able to open the door to the House of the Republic, because Mrs. Arrimadas had to tell her what was in her face? Nothing, they have done, nothing: the ridiculous, as always. They spend all day doing the milames, and at the time of truth in Ciutadans makes it through a narrow open door – an open door: an open door makes them because it invites them to dialogue. Don't you want some hot? Two cups of courage and politics. You went to Waterloo and found an open door, and you freaked out. Madame Arrimadas – or explain it to Madame Arrimadas, that there is no... Yes, yes, they were horrified. Open doors don't move. Open doors don't have to do it, not pateixin. I finish – I finish. You need tools and police to shut up when you don't like them; it's sad enough. In the sixties, the police, the greys, suppressed the will of freedom on the street, and now the greys of politics, who are you, who are the citizens, want to suppress those we want to dialogue with since this Parliament. That's the object of his young man. You, lords of Ciutadans, are the greys of politics in the 21st century. They didn't have enough to hit the 1st of October that they want to silence what we want to talk about. That was it, that was the purpose of his young lady, an absolute shame in a parliament where our work must be to speak, reason and agree, or prove it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.405.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the exams, has the new word the deputy Lorraine Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.406.0	Yes, thank you. Well, I was asking Mr Pujol what we are doing here, citizens' deputies. For I am going to tell you, I understand that you do not know: we come to work, not as you do, to close Parliament and close the committees so that we cannot do our job. That's what we came here to do. [[Greetings.]] And lessons of cowardice... what do you want me to tell you, man! Mr. Puigdemont, who left his companions hanging here, escaped from justice: that is to be a coward – that is to be a coward. [[Greetings.]] You talk to me about cowardice – you talk to me about cowardice. Do you know what it's like to be a citizen councillor in some town here in Catalonia that literally breaks your face? [[Greetings.]] Its partners – its partners – breast-feeding. Mrs. Vilalta, the mayor of Torroella de Montgrí, taking out that assault on a councilman. Look, I am going to focus a little on the amendments, because if not... we accept the amendments of the People's Party, which are in line with the motion we have tabled, which contribute to improving the text. With regard to the amendments tabled by Catalonia in Comú Puem, what do you want me to say to you? Look, the first point... you legitimizing the separatist chiringuites again. I mean, it's that you have a little, a little occasion, you already show that you are the crutch of separatism. Of course I do, man. They also modify... oh, yeah, one that's really good, huh? The way forward: in point 3 they question the way forward by the judiciary. You've come here to talk about your independence. This is very funny: you who participated in the pastry of the distribution of the General Council of the Judiciary come here to talk about judicial independence. [[Greetings.]] Man, please... it's just, really... I have really tried to propose a principle of solution with this motion, which is whether or not to rectify, by abandoning that plan of yours, which is that it leads nowhere, which has brought us nothing good. But you are still committed to denying reality, as if nothing was happening here. Look, today – today – a couple of constitutionalist party dolls have appeared on a bridge in Lleida. That's what's going on here, those are the chrissans – those are the chrissans. Yeah. And to vote against this motion today is to move away from any solution. You yourselves. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.407.0	We've been calling for a vote. [[Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]] Yeah. Mr. Pedret. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Come on, come on, come on, come on, Yes, say so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.408.0	President, I asked him to vote separately from paragraphs 6 and 9, which we can vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.409.0	Thank you. Any more petitions? Don't you? [[Pause.]] All right. So we'll vote first points 6 and 9, together, and then the rest of the vote. Let's start voting points 6 and 9. The vote begins. Points 6 and 9 were rejected by 38 votes to 64, with 17 abstentions. Let's move on, now, to vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 55 votes in favour, 64 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into budgetary policy]] [[302-00066/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the order of the day, which is the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on budgetary policy, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. It has the word, to defend it, the deputy Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.410.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, counsel, will allow me to begin this intervention by apologizing for the fact that we had a moment ago, in the previous motion, that it was the fruit, precisely, of this motion that we are now debating, in the sense that it was asked to be able to convey the debate of this motion tomorrow, simply to rearrange the hours of the plenary, because we are a little late, and we have considered that, since it was a motion that went from the assumptions and until the debate that we had this late with regard to the assumptions, we seemed to be cohering that we could keep the debate of this motion – the debate and the vote on this motion – at this late session of the parliamentary group, and still have the debate on this subject over the next day. She's a young woman, like the goddess, who's related to the assumptions, we think she may be a corollary not wanted, casually, to the debate that was held this late, the result of the inquiry that – also on the assumptions – we're going to formulate to the vice president in the past Ple, that I've already lost count, but you have to do about three weeks, right? We are altering the schedule of plenary sessions, so you have to do about three weeks that we were going to hold that inquiry in relation to the opportunity to present the assumptions, when they had already passed – now more – four months from the date that the Catalan Public Finance Act establishes as the date to present the assumptions to Parliament, which is October 10. It was a strange situation, which motivated that inquiry, because we saw that neither the government was debating and approving the assumptions and sending them to Parliament..., and for another band we felt inputs that those groups that at some point had been negotiating with the government were no longer negotiating with the government, and so we were in a situation of unknowing how we could end up. And we said: "A government materializes its program with a premise, sets priorities and allocates resources. I believe that today we have seen still, in a clearer and fresher way – surely with the inquiry it has left something to be seen – today it has seen itself in a much clearer way than what happens is that the government does not want to present the assumptions. The government, moreover, in the words of its president, has said that it does not have a majority parliament to approve certain assumptions, but I believe that the fact that it does not have a majority parliament to approve certain assumptions does not mean that the government has to give up presenting the assumptions. And I think the result of this circumstance was that we saw two numbers this week: that of the diluns, presenting false assumptions, because the government had not approved them, and publishing them on the department's website as if the government had approved these assumptions, which did not approve them, and today making a false argument of assumptions. It was intended to make a presuppositional debate as if it were a total debate, but it was not, because the presuppositions, as we said at the late session, did not exist, basically because the government did not approve them. Therefore, today we present a young man who is certainly of the shortest you have ever seen, but surely also the one who in less space has the most common feeling, that is to say to the Government: "Listen to me, present the assumptions. The first version, which we presented after the inquiry, gave a reasonable term of time to the Government, is to say: "Listen to me, present the assumptions during the month of March, so that you have enough room to prepare for what you cannot have prepared. The Ciutadans Group presented a statement to us: 'Escolti'm, it should not be the whole month of March, that they present it to March media. And it seemed good to us, it didn't mean to give up so much time either. But, of course, as a result of the fact that we have seen that the government already has the assumptions, the only thing that it does not have is the will to approve them, we have negotiated this message that Ciutadans presented to us, saying: « Listen to me, the next time the government meets, that it approves the assumptions and sent them to Parliament. And why is that? So one thing that was very simple and that was a moment ago was the spokesman of another group: to be able to speak, to reason and to agree, or not, but at least to try. What? Not in that which only interests the half of Catalonia, but in that which interests and affects the conjunction of the Catalan society. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.411.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. It has the word now, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Maialen Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.412.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to you all. We can look for the budgets, but we're not going to find them. We only have one announcement of a project. And it's nothing new in Catalonia that we get to the month of March without having budgets. It is precisely today that we are responding to a motion by the PP calling for the budgets to be presented before the end of the first quarter of this year, and indeed, as Mr Rodríguez has said, we have made an amendment to be tabled at the plenary session next week, here in the parliamentary seat, and before the various groups, and not at the press conference as a start of an electoral campaign towards the generals. We are on February 27 this year, 2019, and as you know the budgets would have to have been presented, according to article 32 of the Law on Public Finance of Catalonia, before October 10 last year. And by now they should be more than approved. But, of course, we already know that all that is to comply with the laws and to abide by the rules comes great to you. However, to write Mr. Torra's twenty-one demands and try to find someone to tell us about them, they did find time, yes. Budgets have never been presented in time and form in recent years. They have focused their efforts on other issues that have nothing to do with the priorities and needs of Catalans, and indeed with their occurrences in virtual republics, which do not solve problems, but rather the opposite, generate them. No wonder I didn't give them time to work on them and fit them into the normative period. Of course, with so much flight from committees, closures of parliaments, blockades of 21-D, 21-F, etc., the budget, economic, etc. items to solve the health, education or social improvements of the Catalan population have remained in a drawer. The only thing that is demonstrated once again is the weakness of the government to present them firmly, a government focused on its imaginary republic of Petete, rather than solving the real and street problems of the Catalan population. Perhaps now they rush to present the, as they could count on the support of Podemos, presented in different fascicles with different acronyms. You referred to this, Mr Aragonès, in your speech of 7 February, in which you mentioned that you would have to work the majorities to move forward and not take them to Parliament if you did not have the necessary support. In this sense, a nuance: do not take them to Parliament should be because, as you constantly block it in your image and likeness and do not come, so do not bring them. They degrade you in such a way that you prefer to start your electoral campaign using other channels of communication, such as a press conference in which you present a powerpoint. How did you plan to approve them? With a media exposure in public opinion? Do you believe that Parliament is like a manipulative TV3 to which you can direct according to your desires? Budgets are the main tool for governments to develop their economic policy. Extended budgets show a total lack of political will to solve the daily problems of the Catalans, a lack of credibility, of internal coherence of the governing parties; ultimately, the total weakness of the current executive. The Government must work to create political and economic stability, to generate certainty, and not vice versa. It must reduce risks. And what do you do? Quite the opposite. The business and investor activity flees from the convulsions that you generate with your permanent blockades, deviation of preferences and the hitherto non-existent budgetary policy. Funding from the public and private sectors is being increased. With their independentist drift they have already managed that since 2017 4,895 companies have left, that foreign investment has been in free fall for more than a year and a half, that the Catalan debt exceeds 77,000_million_de_euro. We are the most indebted autonomous community. It's what's known as the so-called junk bonus. However, they have not stopped opening chiringuitos and embassies throughout the corners, generating hundreds of non-existent posts and fingering. These are the preferences of a decadent and ruinous government. You prefer to support strikes, press the CDRs, generate crispness, uncertainty, volatility in the markets. It is difficult to explain how a government like yours, which must ensure compliance with the laws and generate the maximum economic and social wealth for its people, is able to destroy it with such intensity and bring it into the most absolute of misery, while its leaders, like Mr. Torra, who I see is not, shield their salaries and privileges for life, by royal decree. We have seen the presentation, which at the moment is that, a presentation, a mere presentation of media and electoral propaganda, in which, both negotiating with Mr Sánchez, in the end they have become infected and present us with fake budgets. It is time to really see the budgets recorded in Parliament, so that – this time yes – we can discuss them in Parliament without the need for rapporteurs and with complete transparency. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.413.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to fix its position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC Units for Progress, the deputy Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.414.0	Thank you, Vice President. Well, good afternoon, everybody again. It's like coffee, isn't it? The debate we had at the first hour? Because this question that later became the very reason that I ask the government is that we take a few hours to ask all the groups that are in Parliament and that we are in opposition, and therefore we do not comply with the majority, that it is that they present assumptions that they have previously approved in the execution council. It is, I believe, the least that must be asked of a government, a government that must be responsible, that must respond to its obligations. And so, so, what's on him is, after doing his job in the government, presenting who are his priorities and who are the resources he wants to devote to each of them. That's simple enough, they've done all the governments, they've done all the governments of the autonomous communities, of the states. I mean, it's no exception. The exceptionality and the unexpected is what you have done this time, that it is only teaching assumptions in the execution council, presenting them to the media, not registering them in Parliament, not approving them, and therefore not opening what would be the natural way of assumptions because they can be discussed, they can be written and, therefore, the groups can say what it seems to them – if they seem good, unfortunately – we have ideas on issues that we think they can change... This is not what they have allowed us to do – and what this motion is just about, therefore, is that they present them already. I think it's late that we gave them a lot of arguments because they do it, not just for courage, but also for responsibility. I said, I think Mr. Torra, and I had a sentence that I had told Vice President Junqueras two years ago. I, as I am right, keep all the interventions, and I have it printed to my sco, this intervention of 2017. And I told Vice President Junqueras: "His obligation and responsibility is to present assumptions, and his irresponsibility is not to approve them not seeking this parliamentary majority. If it does not have the majority of Parliament it must be consistent and coherent. And, as the chairman of my group gave it, so, you, either present a motion of confidence or call for elections. At that time, the Vice President and President Puigdemont decided to make this motion of confidence, which allowed them a few more months to, yes, approve some assumptions in 2017. So you do the same, you just have to do what your company did two years ago. And this will show courage, I think it will, but also responsibility. That's why I told him what I told Vice President Junqueras at the time. It has to be coherent, in politics, it has to be consistent. If I don't have the majority, what do we expect? That the inquests give us better...? Because, in the end... it's hard for me, now you're here alone, Mr. Aragonès, you've left him alone. At the end of the debate this no assumptions have also left him enough sun. That's to say, I don't know if this government really believes that you've gone to the web. I know it's hard, because surely you've spent a lot of hours there, but it doesn't seem like it's a massive proposal from the government, which isn't there now, but there wasn't, either, at the end of the debate that we made at the President's appearance. And, therefore, that also makes us think. If you really believe your assumptions, trust yourself, so introduce them and debate them here, we present papers in the proceedings, as has always happened, and at the risk that they can approve them or not; this – you know – is the game of democracy. And then there are consequences. This is what I was saying to Vice President Junqueras and what I was saying to Vice President Junqueras and what I was saying to you today; I told President Torra and we were also telling you, Vice President, if you don't decide, so that's what you're going to do soon, and so we can say that at least this debate has served because you realize that it's best to present assumptions. And if no decision is to be made, but I do not think that this Parliament can continue without a majority that gives support to a government in the most important law that presents a government to Parliament, which is that of assumptions. I don't think they can pull much more. And, therefore, I would ask you that in this sense you were responsible and brave to do what you have the obligation and responsibility to do. Because, if not, some of us will misunderstand what the real reasons are for which you neither present the assumptions nor call elections or a motion of confidence. And, therefore, I think the best thing is that the reasonable doubts that we may have faded away and you do what it's up to them to do, that it's to rule, that it's to present assumptions and it's to try to look for majorities. And if they don't, then be consistent, as was President Puigdemont. And I mean, I never would have said that so many times, I would call for the consistency of President Puigdemont, but I think that at that time it was coherent, and I think that, listen to me, when things are done, they will also have to be recognized. Therefore, Vice-President Aragonès, responsibility and courage to present these assumptions, which are that they are neither registered nor approved by his Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.415.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, also to fix his position, has the word deputy David Cid, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.416.0	Well, they say politics is fast. I think that this debate would certainly now hold the whole sense of the world, but for what we have seen this late I don't know if you have any sense, among other things because the same president has said that they don't intend to present the assumptions, and that here peace and then glory, huh? In any case, we will give support to the youth, because we seem well and believe that it is what it should be: we should be able to have a debate on the assumptions of the Generality, which, as we have said several times, is the new year that we start with the presuppositional prorogation, and I am very afraid that this year we will break the memory and make two years of the presuppositional prorogation. I say it as a recommendation, too, from..., I don't take it badly, I say it in confidence, too: I think it's better that we start negotiating the assumptions of 2020, because, as you negotiate no turtle, maybe if we start negotiating now the 2020s we end up agreeing, we can present them on October 10 and finish approving them before. So, I already invite you, already..., as today you have killed the assumptions, in this case of 2019, so let's start working in the 2020s, and maybe next to a turtle we'll just get to discuss them. And I even say it in confidence – I don't know if it's better to introduce them or not to introduce them, because – I insist – I think they're assumptions that don't hold up. Because I'm insisting on giving him 350_million euros from the state's parties. Of course, as my friend says, it can't be mass and respite. That is to say, it cannot be said that the State repeatedly fails to complete the parties that include the assumptions of the State – which is true and I share, for example we have seen in Rodalies – and then to say: "No, but we have a 350_million game of assumptions, which is not so alone in the assumptions of the State, but we will secure it. No, look, no. Either you go ahead, or one thing or the other. And what I'm worried about – I insist – is that you're making some numbers, in this case of assumptions of the year 2019, with 350_million that we don't have, and when the end of the year comes I want to know what's going to happen. You will want to complete the deficit target, you will again close the fixture to complete – in this case – the deficit target of 0.1, and I think that at the end of the year we will have problems paying double the workings, paying the pharmacies or paying the entities of the third sector. And if not, as this remains in the record, then in September or October we will find each other and discuss whether this can or cannot happen. And then I also think that what happened today... that it was a species of desperate movement, that's to say, isn't it? In the last minute. Why do people hear me, roll up like when Barça's lost, huh? , and as the Barça de Cruyff posed the Alexanko, the third center and put it forward center and pilot to the pot, and at the last minute – at the last minute – passed three tax proposals from the bar [[remorse of the voice]] to see if glue – to see if glue. So, miri, no cola – no cola – because in the end... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.417.0	Order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.418.0	... in the end the debates have to be rigorously – they have to be rigorously – and in the end if you want to discuss taxation« in the series we have held for three months..., in order to be able to discuss taxation« in the series. You haven't moved, and now, in the last minute, try to see if we can put a proposal from the table that's all right – all right – this proposal includes 70_million euros, which we don't have the capacity to..., from most of our proposals; 70_million euros – you said this year 2019, because, of course, we're in a fever, the theoretical assumption would be in March or April, with luck. Anyway, right? The tax year... we can't go back to recap. So, we wouldn't have all the resources we need to be able to put in the way of many of the measures that we have demanded of you, would we? For example, I do today: you have to reduce taxes by 30_percent, housing policies, in this case too– for example, right? – Fight against gender violence, bressol schools... Many things, therefore, that we do believe are a priority for Catalonia and that you did not want to address because you needed to make a real tax reform. And then we also said, if you legitimately..., and we agree, and I agree: we must not subject the question of the assumptions of Catalonia to that of the State. But it is true that we have given up more tickets, and this, these tickets, made it easier for more resources to make social policies in Catalonia. So we have to make up for this, and we have also made more tax proposals in this sense, huh? We have proposed to you a new tram, in this case, from the IRPF to 30_per_cent, and we have also proposed to you the asset tax, for those people who have a wealth of more than 10_million euros, that we support it to the maximum type. So, come on, we're where we were, and we've already said to him, "Unfortunately, this year we didn't agree, by 2019." We're starting work by 2020, maybe we can come to terms. But I do think I should give my face, because Mr Maragall..., I know it's hard that it's not there now, but I want to say to him: when the assumptions have not been approved in Barcelona, that they have been approved three years, there has been a confidence motion, and we have passed the confidence motion for three years and the assumptions have been approved. It's obvious, because they're in parallel, but there's been a moment of trust at the Barcelona Assembly, which here, you... as you said before, they're falling for assumptions, it's nothing, here peace and then glory, and another year we'll find each other. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.419.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Then it's the turn of the Republican Group, and Congressman Lluís Saved has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.420.0	Thank you, Vice President. Well, in any case, we've already had the opportunity to debate and discuss a lot of assumptions, and what is the position of the Government has already been very clear and very explicit in the interventions we have made on the part of the President and the Vice-President of the Government. But in any case, as I have not had the opportunity to participate in the previous debates and many of the things that have been raised, so you have remained with that feeling of greed to be able to pick it up and say yours, I will try to recover some of the things that have been raised and make some additional reflection on what has already been done by the Vice-President and by the person who has made a spokesman for the Republican Parliamentary Group, in this concrete case by Ernest Maragall. In any case, a first consideration, which is very basic: dealing with assumptions is a government power, it's not an obligation – it's a power and it's not an obligation. He mentioned it before Ernest. Infinity of governments around the world extend the assumptions. And what is truly transcendent is that the government works and that the country continues to work. The assumptions in themselves are not the end, they are a tool: they are a tool for the government to pull forward its sectoral policies, and to accompany the development and economic growth of a country. And at the end of the debate is substance..., the speech debate ends up feeling, in a good measure, if the Government is managing with assumptions or prorogate, and it seems to me that the answer is very – very – obvious and very explicit – the liquidation of 2017 assumptions, the liquidation of 2018 assumptions–, and it is very explicit in the fact that the Government of Catalonia at this time has the possibility to exit the FLA and adhere to much more flexible mechanisms, and the Government of Catalonia can do so because it completes and has made an extraordinary management of the economic character and the character of the assumptions complementing the objectives of the deficit, diminishing substantially the government's detente of the Generality, achieving the objective of paying to the supply, and the creation of the gross output, which is not accompanied by the government itself. So what is really substantial is that the country is moving forward, that the government is strictly managing its resources. And in any case, I also recover some of the things that have been said. Mr Cid was commenting on this very moment: the Barcelona Assembly, which is substantial, is not if it has a law, in this case in the area of financing, which allows it to make motions of censure. What is substantial is that the Barcelona Assembly Government has only been able to generate a majority for a year, in 2016, with the support of the PSC and with the support of the Republican Esquerra; 2017 and 2018 has not been able to constitute a majority in the Assembly enough to be able to approve the assumptions, and we are in the extension phase, at the level of the Barcelona Assembly. So, listen, we're getting used to these situation of prorogations because this ends up being the result of a fraction of the political map, and so it's worth it that we're following..., and that we're dealing with it with a certain rigour, because some of those who are now criticizing and demonizing you are probably patenting it at the Barcelona Assembly. And we'll see, from here to a few months, as some of the right hand side will also be joining Andalusia in these folds. In any case, a consideration also about the inheritance tax, because it is referred to in a repeated way – the famous 900_million euros of the inheritance tax. It seems to me that the leaders of the PSC, the leaders of the Initiative – forgive, of the commons – have skipped a part of the story, and if you want to get more from the Government Agreement of February 9, 2010; Government Castells, with the support of the Republican Left and Initiative, on – I read the headlines: « The inheritance tax disappears for 94_percent of the taxpayers, 2010; « 99_percent of the inheritances between spouses and 97_percent of the inheritances between couples and children are exempt. And I can go on. This meant that the Castells Government reduced the estate tax from 900_million to 400_million. Therefore, the proposal that at this time the Vice-President of the Government has been left with from the table improves in a substantial way to the one that the tripartite left at that time, and..., in the same way that it seems to me that it is also very important the proposal that came from the table of improvement of the progressivity in the IRPF. It seems to me that it is a shame that we do not take advantage of these opportunities to make a fiscal system more progressive and fairer. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.421.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. And finally it is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Juntes for Catalonia, and has the word of Congresswoman Teresa Pallarès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.422.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, look, it will be fictitious or not, as Mrs Arrimadas has said, that she does not have the pleasure to listen to my intervention, but all the groups have discussed the forms, Vice President, but they have all entered into the background of the content that you and the President have raised here today in this chamber. One day, therefore, to speak of assumptions, of fact – I agree – the most important law that is dealt with in a parliament and that determines the action of government, obviously, but also the position and proposals or not proposals of those who are at the opposition or those that can be valued or not if they support it. Look, while I was preparing my exhibition, I was imbued with the images of this trial in the democracy that we are witnessing, and I couldn't help but think of it as our own in the seny and the rage. As much as I didn't want to, I did the work of the Catalan philosopher Josep Ferrater Mora, of the year 44, who talks about the forms of Catalan life and explains the four traits that define us: continuity, measure, irony and seny. As I see reflected by our companies and companies that are these days declaring before this farce of judgment that we are witnessing – as I see reflected. [[Greetings.]] Firm in their arguments, dignity and that point of conviction and impenetrable that brought them to this situation for all of us and for the compliment of the democratic mandate emerged from the October 1 polls. I only see dignity and compromise. The opposition between the concepts of seny and rauxa was popularized two years later at the work of Jaume Vicens Vives, and at present some scholars of Ramon Llull's work already recollect that this great figure of Catalan letters already had this same dichotomy, between the rationalism of his work Ars magna and the abandon that he made of the rich to come out to run the world with a franciscan skill. I would like to say that they are not only fond of the same coin, but also the expression of a tarann which is attributed to Catalans. But we're talking about seny. When we talk about yourself, we also talk about the need to have these assumptions. And our group has also expressed it clearly, because its approval means the increase of social spending and the betterment of public services, the benefit of people, of all the citizens of Catalonia. In many of the speeches we have been able to listen to this late, there is a reality: everyone wants to make proposals, but there is the reality that all these petitions are probably able to take over if we can manage our own resources someday. But that's our country model. We're talking about self-determination and we're talking about the republic on this line. And surely that's what doesn't fit into many of these parliamentary groups, and some of our companies are precisely ahead of this trial to get these ideas for the future. Let's talk about seny also when we talk about the Catalan economy. That some of us are discussing the data, but, escorted'm, the GDP is pointing to an increase of 2.5, over the Spanish medium, which is in a 2.2, and of the '1.3 of the euro area. We also note, and have come out these days, that the GDP per capita of Catalonia, which plays a good part in the investments of every city and citizen, exceeds by a 10_per_cent the European average. Listen, these data are from Eurostat, or else I don't think I can put them in doubt. Something this government must have done, too, in this. Let's keep talking about yourself with the preliminary draft assumptions, which we have seen today. And I will not be there, obviously, because we are talking about public services of quality, prosperity, redistribution and social cohesion, democracy, stronger institutions. The proposal that..., responds to the Government's will to an inclusive, innovative and sustainable country model. A country of rights and opportunities for everyone; this is probably where we do not agree with some groups of this parliamentary arc. And let's go to the rauxa– the rauxa–, which requires them to focus on it as a vision of compromises. And I lead to all the parliamentary groups that are brave and decided. We all need to make good use of this sign and this line to add effort and pull the most important law out of this chamber. We, Mr. Rodriguez, will abstain, because we consider that we have done our dues. We obviously agree with the proposal, but we call on the seny and the uprising in the name of the well-being of all Catalans and Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.423.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, to pronounce on the papers, the deputy of the group proposing Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.424.0	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Pallarès, do not go to Waterloo to say so, I repeat this late: the republic does not exist. And the presuppositions neither – the presuppositions neither. Therefore, he cannot speak to us of the Lord who speaks to us of the Republic; one thing is the Lord and another is the Republic. And we all want to discuss the assumptions, and you have expressed it. So the best way to discuss the assumptions is for the government to approve and take them to this Parliament. And in this sense, with regard to Mr. Cid's intervention, it is certain – it is certain – that this late we have already debated, and a lot, of assumptions, and surely the debate of this young man is additional, it is surging. But what was important is precisely the vote, that Parliament is to ask the government to complete its obligations and to present the premise. And, therefore, we will see whether this government, which presumes so much democracy, which has so much democracy in its mouth, complements what Parliament is running, approves the assumptions and allows us to present ideas, that we can debate, that we can visualize the differences and finally we can decide whether these assumptions are the ones that Catalans need or not. And if not, the government must take the measures I consider appropriate. But a government that can't approve of assumptions has the outputs it has. And the government knows them, because the president of the generality has already expressed them on some occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-02-27-2501.425.0	Thank you, Congressman. Let us now proceed to the vote. We called for a vote. [[Long break.]] Let's go to the vote, then, from the young man, who has a single point. The vote begins. The motion following the question to the Government on budgetary policy was adopted by 61 votes in favour, against and 58 abstentions. We'll suspend the session until tomorrow morning.
