ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.1.0	Well, good morning, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Asking the Government about school segregation]] [[300-00134/12]] The next item is the question to the Government on school segregation, an question submitted by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose it has the word of Congressman Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.2.0	Well, good morning. We do not only have a social reality that turns against the co-education of classes, origins and diversity, but our governments and our institutions have positioned themselves at the side of power to consolidate social segregation through concerts and free choice of centre. And you should not tell the world that yes, that rich and poor are the same, that people migrate and not migrate are the same, and that the interclass and intercultural school, the co-education of classes and origins is the only possible model for principles and values in our education. "It's a long time ago, when it's time to take the institutional, material and symbolic step of suppressing concerts in private schools and free choice of center. Faced with the slogan of power, we want governments and institutions that treat everyone alike, that embrace from the public school the heterogeneous and diverse reality of our society and that, before the segregation and you will win, make it our motto, that of the normal people, that it is inclusive and we will win all. The paragraph is not mine, it's from Cecilia Bayo, published in Nuvol magazine. Well, this admonition, which already indicates enough the orientation of this first part of the inquiry, tells him that the main purpose of this controversy or debate is to focus on the responsibilities and contributions to the school system in the reproduction of social segregation processes in our home, and in its reversal. That is to say, as our educational policies should combat school segregation, so as to contribute to the struggle against social segregation. This is the basic question we want to raise, counselor. And more generally, against the system of reproduction of social inequalities. Said in another way, whether our school contributes sufficiently or not to its role of reversing the reproduction of social inequality. The model of society, from our point of view, on which his Government's policies are based, including the educational ones, assume the systemic social inequalities, as inevitable, as an indefusible part of reality. The reproduction of inequality, both globally and locally, is a prerequisite for the development of capitalist society, and the public policies of its government aspire to regulate it, certainly, but not to reverse them in their totality. These public policies assume the role of controlling and managing inequalities at a sustainable and affordable level, in the framework of a modern and liberal society. What we now say is advanced, with levels of social conflict that are not disruptive, and with the guarantee of reproduction of the working hand that, at every moment, claims the market. And under the conditions of qualification and obedience in which this requires them at every moment. School segregation forms part of this system of reproduction of inequality, as well as job insecurity, inequality between men and women, the housing market and urban gentrification, to pose only a few cases. And inequalities in health care, for example, to speak of another field as at least as important as education. And to offer gentrification, counselor: does your government have a planning, an anticipation to rebalance and compensate, from the school system, the processes of social gentrification and accelerated increase of inequalities that the market of housing is generating to our cities? We don't think so, and it's a central problem. In this sense, our hypothesis, counselor, is that the Catalan education system, currently not only continues to generate processes of school segregation, but, consequently, contributes and participates in processes of reproduction of social inequalities. And I'll give you some examples, and some thoughts that are coming. When it comes to school segregation, the educational community is used to looking at the concerted school. They are publicly funded centres, but managed by foundations or companies and schools in one_third– one_third– of students in Catalonia. Most of them charge monthly installments, and this is a deterrent to many families, who cannot pay the fees they charge. This is a reason that, in part, explains why the concerted schools only assume a 15-percent of students with more social difficulties. Menys de la mitat – menys de la mitat – of whom they would touch if the distribution was balanced between schools. In the last few years – this is yours – your department has dropped the request to seventy-three concerted centres, of which fifty-eight were religious, so that they do not complete the minimum enrolment of students with special social or educational needs. Even so, it also means that the special complexity schools, with the specific programs and resources they are now subject to, are a model that certainly contributes to improving the school outcomes of some students and their empowerment from compulsory education, but it has not proved – years on the contrary – yet that it guarantees equity in access to post-compulsory education. And, above all, what I can say is that they reproduce social segregation for their tendency to homogenize the precarious social profiles of the student, in certain centers. On the other hand, all available studies indicate that the school results in the territories where these centres are located are frankly inferior, compared to the other territories with the most benevolent population. The current policy of autonomy of centres, beyond some innovative and quality pedagogical experiences, includes that our educational system has five scales: centres of special complexity; common public centres; innovative public centres, with special requirements for involvement and co-responsibility of families at the level of quotas and participation; concerted centres, and private centres; distribution, the school population, clearly following a social class pattern. In this context, the families, above all those who enjoy more degrees of freedom for their class, act competing and buying opportunities of social ascent, of social promotion for their children, in a real market of regular education. And that's the problem, counselor. The conversion of the Catalan education model into a regular education market. School segregation, social segregation and reproduction of social inequalities are perfectly guaranteed in the shields that the system needs to function reasonably. Despite the debate on equity in terms of results, the reproduction machine of the unequal society and of classes runs perfectly. Policies related to the Bressol school, out-of-school, sports and cultural activities, as well as school teachers, also have an effort and access differential, between families, depending on their economic situation and social capacities, which also help to reproduce, in the school environment, the inequalities existing in society. The syndic's report shows the increase in school segregation in Catalonia. To reverse the situation, he says: 48_per_cent, almost half of the students of foreign origin in primary school, and 39 in secondary school would have to be accepted in interclass schools, which would gain in diversity and improve the results thanks to the effect of diversity. Reversing segregation in the education system and reducing abandonment by increasing post-compulsory titles are two objectives that interact and complement each other. At the same time, they raise the general level of skills and recover the pool of talents that is lost due to the system's unfairness, distributing educational opportunities among groups and social classes with more equality. School planning should be used, for example, to provide for an increase in secondary education and to ensure that sufficient public places are available to distribute the education in schools with cultural, social and economic diversity, instead of grouping them in homogeneous centres. Unfortunately, we think that the current planning is deepening the social borders at our home. In this context, the right to elect a centre on the part of families systematically reproduces social segregation, mediating endemic and structural processes of school segregation. We consider that, above the freedom of choice of the centre, the right to an equal and equitable education. Our conclusion, Counselor, is, therefore, that the Catalan education system is not a model that prioritizes the fight against the reproduction of social inequalities, but that, by mediating school segregation, participates in the machinery of this reproduction with the mission not to reverse it, but to regulate it, in functional terms, to the requirements of the market and of the social order. And at the other extreme, at the other extreme of the education system..., counselor, has his political government to fight the main ghettos – the most sealed and hermetic ghettos we have in our education system, such as the Pedralbes area, in Barcelona, where the elite schools and who secrete by sex are absolutely locked in themselves – so that the students of these ghettos, are barging with students from other social classes and cultures? We understand that no, which also demonstrates the inadequacy of his policies in this sense. And in view of this problem, counselor, is your department reverting to segregation, putting the cool to the growth of the concertation and, in change, increasing in proportion to the public places? They don't think so. Miri, closure of groups of P3 publics versus overdose of groups of P3 privates, 2019-2020: concerted, increase forty-four; public, down fifteen. Infringement of public groups and overdose of private and concerted groups at first ESO, period 19-20: concerted, increase fifty-nine; public, down one-hundred-two. Therefore, it seems to me that the data are very illustrative of the problem I am raising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, the education advisor, Mr. Josep Bargalló. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.4.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen... Mr. Deputy Carles Riera, I could tell you that we agree on a good part of the diagnosis. We will certainly use different terminology, but we agree on a good part of the diagnosis and, finally, we do not have the same data. But this, in fact, has nothing to do with the diagnosis itself, nor does it have anything to do with the policies that can be done. It is true that the education system responds to the consequences of social reality where it is inserted, and it is also true that the education system is not the tool, but it is one of the tools to reverse the inequalities and injustices of the social system where it is inserted. From this to the day "the struggle against segregation, "the work for equity, "the work for reversal, as we say. There are elements that are obvious; it is to say, we cannot do that in according to five territories public centers or concerted centers have according to what type of alumni, because in that territory there is not that type of alumni. But we can't allow centers that are in a territory that has a certain type of alumni, not acullin, to be public or to be concerted. For the fight against segregation, we have at these times..., which is the department's will, as it could not otherwise be, because it is the educational community's will, but it is the will of a large majority of society– of a large majority of society–..., we have various elements. There are two that are very important, and there are two that are very important that, moreover, we are at this time opening them up, and just yesterday, in a call for the knowledge of this inquiry, we met with the entities that conform to the Marc Unitari of the Education Community and put two urgent elements on the table, because they are two elements that we have to hold to the gene that we see, that are two decrees: the new decree of admission of students and the new decree of educational concerts. We need the results of reality, the results of the diagnoses and the results of the commitments; commitments established, for example, in the Covenant against Segregation proposed for the syndicate, which signed a large majority of the educational community and who did not sign it is to the MUCE; therefore... with whom we also met yesterday. These new decrees, that we need the gene that sees, for one song, because the process of pre-registration of the own course – gener, fever – will be initiated, and for the other, because a first period of review of educational concerts that end the year you see in one part is opened. And we need to put in the table some key elements that modify aspects of the current student admission and distribution criteria, and some other key criteria that clarify the reasons for which a concert is given, and also the reasons for which a concert can be recreated. Because sometimes the key is not the cause for which it is a woman, sometimes the key is if certain failures, legally, allow us to retract it. In this sense, it is obvious, for example, that we cannot fail to accept the concept of free center choice. Yes, it is obvious that we cannot accept that the concept of free choice of center is a first, one-of-a-kind concept, or that it is a concept that is not based on educational project choice criteria, but that it has become the choice of "with whom I study my child or with whom I study my daughter. The choice of centre is that, not with whom, and it is certain that the current dynamic, to a very good extent, prioritizes with whom and not with whom. That's why we rely heavily on these two decrees: the new Pupil Admission Decree and the new Educational Concerts Decree. And we also trust in the concertation of decrees, in the concertation with the educational community, with the majority possible of the educational community and with all interested agents; also with parliamentary groups. I told the MUCE entities yesterday and I also told other agents that the parliamentary groups were also at a stage after the first concertation with the community. In this sense, I would now take advantage of the time that is left, in any case, to leave some topics also in the table. The centres that have chosen for innovation – which is for the better, which is for renewal, which is for transformation, for many different things that we say in innovation and which we sometimes put in the same bag – there is the topic that are centers that are located in certainly socioeconomic areas or centers that have students come from second families. That's absolutely fake. I did an exercise, which I can't explain, because... – you will hear me – I did an exercise, which is, on the basis of the external tests carried out in the centers, to prove whether those centers that they obtain, in these external tests the data from which they are neither nor can ever be public for obvious reasons..., but to do an exercise to see if in the hundred centers of Catalonia that they achieve higher results there were centers of maximum public complexity and there were centers located in socioeconomically disadvantaged areas of some barrels of some cities in our country. I can assure you that yes, there were private centres located in highly-favorable areas that did not appear in this, let's say, the cost of the centres with better results and there were public centres located in areas of maximum complexity that did appear there. It is obvious that there is a correlation of academic results and family situation, there is; but it is neither complete nor expelled. And I can't give an example of this: "It's that only schools and schools of... don't innovate. So the past year, the past year, the Marià Fortuny School, of Reus, which is a school located in an immigration bar, where most of the students come from immigration in the first or second generation and from immigration in North Africa, is a center of the few centres in Catalonia that participate in the Alliances Magnet program, of the Bofill Foundation, from the College of Architects, and it is a center that won the first prize of the innovative educational projects of the Mobile Congress. And it is an example that innovation is also a tool of struggle against segregation, that work for better education is also a tool. But you can say to me: "This can be the case. You're right, aren't you? We're always talking about this. I insist, the two phone tools that we have right now on the table are these two decree projects and a third one, which is planning, obviously, which is planning, and therefore be aware of the demographic change. For planning I remind you that this week the Government approved the law allowing the change of ownership of educational centres, based on realities of need for schooling and also on realities of movements in the ecosystem, which, if you want, we will talk about in the second round. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer is the return, again, of the deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.6.0	Counselor, that innovation is a fundamental tool for better education, in this we fully agree. In which we disagree is in the innovation model. That is to say, you are not experimenting with innovation processes, with a systematic follow-up, etc., from here on you are absolutely generalizing to all the centers in this process of innovation, but what is generated from the decree of autonomy of centers and directions is a market free of innovative processes, with a logical free market, effectively, clearly, from which what we are generating is an increase in the risks of segregation, depending on which center ended up, therefore, the students, depending on the existence of these innovative experiences, of one type or another, around them. If not, this is the perception that we have. That is to say, we are tending, as I initially said, to a teaching market, to a certain liberalisation of the teaching labour market, from the decree of autonomy of centres and addresses, which I believe is very much in the line of certain councils and advices that you arrive at the international level of certain lobbyists who are acting here in our country under the title of innovation and modernisation, etc. Vagina count, huh? For whom they are allowed to advise in this sense. Because, look, the reproductive spiral of school segregation is very clear: the conditions of schooling determine the social composition of the centers, but this composition also determines the conditions of schooling, and so on. And what the Pact against Segregation sets out and what you set out to me with the decrees of agreement and registration, the only thing you will do is to try to introduce an element of regulation and of matter into the door of entry, but without having the ability to intervene neither fully nor powerfully, in order to reverse this machinery of school segregation and, therefore, its consequence in terms of social segregation. This is our hypothesis, that is, that in a problem of magnitude 10 you will always intervene under the reminder of the return of the problem. This is our visit. Well, on the other hand, according to the available studies, we observe that school segregation is lower in those municipalities without a concerted school or in those where district or zone unifications force the concerted to govern, it seems not, by strictly public criteria. And, on the other hand, we also know that when the students of the most affluent families learn in an educational environment or with a significant percentage of students with a lower socioeconomic profile, the changes for them are imperceptible from a point of view of school income; on the contrary, they develop more culturally and as far as social skills are concerned. Meanwhile, immigrant students or students with a delicate socioeconomic situation go to schools where segregation is low and, when this happens, note a very important improvement in terms of school income, results, etc. Therefore, it seems to us that the proposal that we are putting forward and that we are going to put it in motion fits with what is a good prospect of the better education, which means, basically, to invest up to the 6_per_cent foreseen by the LEC, from the first infancy to the upper secondary level, with universal and free coverage, establishing us longitudinal mechanisms of follow-up and support of success in educational transitions until obtaining post-compulsory qualifications, with a zero to three free offer and an increase in the offer of public and free vocational training, and the downgrading of diplomas, obviously. To ensure that students of low social and economic origin can develop in conditions of equality across the entire education cycle and sun the same levels of knowledge, skills, opportunities and social promotion as the rest of the school population. In this sense, the tendency should not be the proliferation of elitist ghettos or ghettos of another complexity, but the distribution of all the school population, of all, in educational centers that enclose all the diversity in its reality and complexity, without the private centers or families being able to intervene to destroy this homogeneous and equal distribution of the population. And all this, counselor, requires disconcerting the education system, ensuring equality in resources and in the quality of educational centres throughout the territory; social heterogeneity of pupils; positive discrimination in those most disadvantaged communities and territories, through a unified and universal education system of high quality for everyone. This is the only way– the only way–, and all the positive international experiences in this sense prove it to us, so that the school system recovers its key role in the social ascent, which it had dyed and ceased to have; and it has not failed to have it by chance: it has ceased to have it for the details and for a model that we consider to be contrary to the positive path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. It's the councilman's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.8.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... certainly, the proposal that the table has put up for both decrees is a proposal that they intend to regulate but that at once wants to reverse, huh? And this will be..., it is obviously the difficulty of agreement and consensus, but it is the need: regular to reverse – regular to reverse. Second place. Encany, we have brought in experiences that we want to continue these areas from these decrees, but we have already made some experiences in some municipalities; in Barcelona city, for example. In Barcelona city, from the Barcelona Education Consortium, and with an agreement between the department and the assembly, we have already taken a step towards the balanced distribution of students with educational needs to the public and to the concerted, which has modified pre-registrations, has modified numbers of pre-registrations, and at the same time we have, also, made an option for reserve of places, so that it is known as "registration out of term". That's what we did in Barcelona, and it gave some good results, and we did it in other municipalities. And that's what we want, let's say, regular from the decree. This is an item we need to regulate, because it's a reverse element. In this very sense, it is certain that some innovation practices, based exclusively on piloting – therefore, on very concrete elements – may not help this element of reversal or may not help the fight for equity. Our commitment to innovation or renewal, which we prefer to say 'for the better, is based on: it has to reach all centres, it does not have to be a practice only of some centres, it has to reach all centres from the reality of each centre and from the willingness of the management team of each centre, of the class of teachers of each centre, of the community of each centre. There is no single innovation model, there is no single innovation, there is no innovation dictated from the outside: there are practices of better dozen different, than we, as system guarantors, what we have to do is evaluate – evaluate – not reproduce. And in this sense reality, as always, is advanced: there is a lot of better practice networks, a lot of networks. That some of them are more known than others? It's a marketing issue, but we won't be participating in this marketing. Some of them are more familiar than others? Sure. Either it's a marketing theme or it's a theme that some people are more suited to big cities. One of the best areas in the country is rural school, for years of experience, for results and even for community work. It's the best. Is there any less left in the press? Yes, but it has all the support of the department – it has all the support of the department. And there are some practices that in some urban areas would also be just as positive as they know them. But, I insist, the department's obligation is regular; regulate admission, regulate concerts. And the department's will is to reverse the situations of injustice and do so on the basis of consent. And, I insist, the two decrees are a tool, they'll be a measure, we're not talking to the community anymore, we'll talk to the parliamentary groups at their own time. We know that they will be controversial, because we know that according to which decisions do not please everyone, but in education we have already after decisions that please everyone surely do not help to reverse. Therefore, we are prepared for the debate and, as you said at the beginning, also for the controversy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on financial and budgetary policy]] [[300-00139/12]] The next item is the question to the Government on fiscal and budgetary policy presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The honourable Member Adriana Delgado explains the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.10.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. MPs, MPs, Councillors, Vice Presidents, well, on the 17th of May we knew that the Generalitat de Catalunya had completed for the first time since the approval of the law all objectives of fiscal stability: deficit, debt and expenditure rule. At the time of assessing this fact we cannot abstract from the injustice of the Law of Presupposition and Financial Sustainability; some deficit and debt reduction targets loaded on the autonomous communities, a rule of spending that excessively limits the capacity of public administrations to respond to citizens' demands in times of crisis. Nevertheless, despite the manifest injustice, the Generality has fulfilled all its obligations. In 2018, the State marked the Generality with a deficit target of 0.4_per_cent, a maximum debt of 34.1_per_cent and a spending rule that allowed a maximum increase of 2.4_per_cent. The Generalitat has closed 2018 with a deficit of 0.4_per_cent, a deficit of 34_per_cent and an increase of the expenditure of '1.6_per_cent, closing a complicated year that was marked for the application of 155 during the first half of the year, which also ended up resulting in the impossibility of approving the assumptions for 2018. Nevertheless, they are not objectives that are automatically complemented, but that they have been complemented thanks to the rigour in the management of finances by the Economics Council under the leadership of Esquerra. The data are obvious: in 2015 the Generalitat had a deficit of 2.84_per_cent and in three years it was reduced by 85.9, until the 0,4 that commented on the 2018 tank. A good management that went beyond the deficit: the period of payment of suppliers has also been reduced to thirty-four days; thirteen days if we maintain the calculation criteria of the pre-April 2018 methodology. As I said, although we congratulate ourselves on the good management, we cannot fail to recall the injustice of the distribution in the objectives of the deficit. At the beginning of 2018 the limit for autonomous communities was around 0.3, while for the State it was '1.2_per_cent. Minister Calvino managed to relax the deficit targets on the part of the European Union, but she continued with the unjust distribution of Minister Montoro: while the State was relaxed by the target of 2.2 of GDP up to 2.7, to the communities only from 0.3 to 0.4; a distribution, let me remind you, which has a clearly political purpose, with the sole objective of re-centralising. Let us remember that Catalonia and other autonomous communities have competence over the roughness of the welfare state: sanitation, social services and education. These skills represent 80_per_cent practically of the unfunded expenditure of the autonomous communities. If it were on the basis of public expenditure, it would be more realistic for the Central Administration to assume 58_percent of flexibility with respect to the deficit target and the communities, 31_percent. However, as only the State has decision-making capacity here, it has stuck to itself 89_percent of the margin respecting the deficit target and leaving the gears to the communities. The margin offered by the European institutions to the Government of the State to make the deficit more flexible is, we repeat, being used to refocus. This asymmetry does not have to alienate us if we take into account the design of the decision process of the deficit, debt and expenditure targets. The Council of Ministers approves it for a three-year period for the State, the autonomous communities and local authorities, i.e., the vertical distribution of the objects. Then, for the purpose assigned to the set of communities, the Fiscal and Finance Policy Council approves the horizontal distribution of the set of objectives. As always, in the most decentralized country in the world, the State decides and the rest feels it. Therefore, we are not surprised that, despite the vertical imbalance that we find in the financing system, it is that the central administration is more well financed than the autonomous, even though they have the bulk of the expenditure, the restructuring has mainly fallen on the communities and municipalities. The hardest part is that, despite this arbitrariness, the State still feels unable to order its own finances. The debt of the public administrations of the State reached a maximum of €1.2 billion, representing 98.50_percent of GDP. If he finally manages to close the 2018 exercise with a deficit of 2.48_per_cent of GDP, he will only decompose the financial burden that represents the effect of the rescue of the M-15 radial motorways. While the Generality resumes its year, the State increases it; while the Generality completes the deficit without traps, the State has to make up the disastrous fruits of Pharaohic investments in the Autonomous Community of Madrid. Unlike the Catalan Government, the State Administration has not completed either the deficit objective or the expenditure rule. How can those who impose extraordinary control measures and unjust objectives on us be those who do not complete their own clearly more permissive objectives? We see how the state's arbitrariness against everything you do smells of independence is in all and every area, in the area of finance the first, no matter how much it affects people's well-being. This arbitrariness has been multiplied by the mechanisms that Montoro created at the time to guarantee credit to the autonomous communities, the famous FLA, the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, to which the Generality has had no other option but to embrace and which it takes into account for the money of which it is not available because of an opaque, ineffective, insolidary and unjust financing system. In 2018 the costs of debt to Catalonia of the FLA were approximately 0.84_per_cent. One of the consequences of the good financial management of the Generality is that the compliment of the deficit objective enables the Catalan Government to exit the FLA and join the Financial Facility compartment, which, despite having similar costs, leaves more room for autonomy. Montoro did everything he could to paralyze the generality's finances. It did not only take advantage of the deficit to re-centralise and the FLA to gain interest, but also that 2015 adopted a series of additional control measures aimed at intervening the finances of the Generalitat, among others requiring monthly reports on the expenditure of the Generalitat, as well as know; completely arbitrary supervision measures which have not been applied to any other community; political control measures introduced for the People's Party and which have continued with the Socialist Party; measures which, according to the good economic management of the Catalan Government, should be withdrawn immediately, but in the accounts of a PSOE we find a continuous PSOE, both in the political control of the Generalitat and in the repression. It is for this reason, Vice-President, that we ask ourselves whether, given that it has been shown that we are not only managing well, but also that we are completing some unjust objectives that are imposed on us, the time has not come for the Socialist Government to eliminate some controls that were imposed on us for purely political reasons, all of which are the causes of economic management that today have proved to be completely false. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the Vice President and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.12.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Councillors, MPs, MPs, MPs, certainly the year 2018 the Generalitat de Catalunya completed with the three objectives of presuppositional stabilization. Before going into the matter, I would like to reflect on how the mechanisms for fixing these objectives work and the importance they ultimately have for the decisions taken by this Parliament. In this Parliament and in today's plenary there will be subsequent motions for appeals and discussions of bills that inevitably affect the need to provide us with resources or to decide on the resources that are allocated to public policies. What is the margin of manoeuvre we have to allocate these resources? So normally an administration has the ability to make tax changes if it has enough autonomy – in our case I want to remember that the margin is extremely small, because the bulk of our entries come from the transfers of the financing model, on which we have no decision-making capacity – so act on the entries and act on the expenses. The crisis of public finances in the European Union has led to the great recession, and that, above all, it held a high point during the year 2012, bringing to the establishment of a full set of threshold determinations in the budgetary sphere of public administrations. The legal articulation of this structure, of this charassa, in the Spanish State is the Organic Law of Presupposition and Financial Sustainability, which establishes, in a very clear way, that it is the Ministry of Hisenda that sets the objectives of the remaining administration, also its own, and, therefore, that determines the margin of manoeuvre of the joints, Government of the Generality and the rest of autonomous governments, in order, in the end, to be able to carry out the public policies that legitimately determine their parliaments. And the conclusion is clear, see what has happened, is that the State has set some objectives that have served, before the European Union, to complement, at the cost – at the cost – of limiting the decision-making capacity of the assemblies and the autonomous communities. And that's it; it's not an interpretation, it's not an opinion, it's reality. And then we can go over the dice. Because it is the..., the approval of the objectives of deficit and debt is brought to an end in the Fiscal and Finance Policy Council on the proposal of the Ministry of Finance; a fiscal and financial policy council that has nothing to do with the federal, that has nothing to discuss and in which the autonomous communities attend, have right to say, but the right to vote, when the majority of the votes is of the Ministry of Finance, is therefore a right to a symbolic vote, of political value, but not of decision-making value. And, as the Member explained, targets are set for a three-year period for all public administrations. In the framework of autonomous communities, it is done in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and at the global level thereafter, they are subsequently approved by the Council of Ministers. During all these years in this Parliament there has been a lot of discussion about the deficit objective. Certainly, the year 2010 we came to a deficit that after all the revisions the defined deficit was 4.40_percent of the gross domestic product, about 9,000_million euros. Continuing in these levels of deficiency is unsustainable. How, then, does this make it back to a certain level of disability? So, obviously, the way it was we were discussing it. And how it was decided unilaterally for the State, limiting extraordinarily the ability to spend. Therefore, the deficits that have been imposed are deficits..., the deficits or also the debt target – and then we'll talk about the expenditure rule – are absolutely unfair. Despite this, because we are aware that this is the mark that exists, the Generality has completed. And it completes and the State does not complete. We complete some unjust presuppositional goals, because we don't have any more scope to do so, and complement, and that, therefore, has some effects; the State, which decides these goals, also its own, systemically incomplete. Therefore, in the year 2018 we completed not only the deficit, which we already did the year 2017, but the goal of debt and the rule of expenditure. This is in the wake of a Generality Finance Ordering process that began in the year 2015, deepening with great vigor with the entry into the Economics Department of Vice President Junqueras, and where there have been very positive effects. Now that it is a moment of the constitution of municipal governments, the debt pending to the threefold of the Generalitat with the joints of the country has passed, from the end of 2015 to the end of 2018, from 622_million euros to 50_million euros. And, in fact, as the honourable Member said, the Catalonian Government did so as well as completing the presuppositional targets for the year 2018. It is expected that we would have to make a deficit of 0.4 – complim –, a debt target equivalent to 34_percent of GDP, 34.1 – this is 34 –, and a rule of spending with a maximum increase topall of 2.4, and we are at '1,6. So, there's a good management, there's an orderly account, and now it's time to make the decisions. But I would like to explain clearly that it is the State that is not fulfilling its objectives at these times: neither the deficit objective nor the expenditure rule. In fact, with the data we have from the year 2018, the State had as its objective at the joint of the Central Deficit Administration a 1.8_per_cent; go to 2.76. Shot at the level of the Central Administration, let's say, of the same Government, of the General Administration of the State, which was to complete a 0.7 and went to the 1.35, almost doubled it. And then they're the ones who give us lessons. Or, those who systematically fail to complete the objects that are marked – they themselves are marked with an objective, they fail to complete it – they are the ones who want to monitor us. You're paradoxical. We, who do not decide our objectives, who decide them for us, even for all our purposes, are maintained a discriminatory supervision for the city of Catalonia, because at these times Catalonia is the only government that is under a duty of information that violates autonomy, that violates what is contained in the Statute of Autonomy, and it is done simply for a political issue, because the governments of the State do not support that the independenceists win the elections. And as they don't support it, they use the General Administration of the State to impose information obligations. And someone had to look at it, this intervention of mine, with unbelief, but it's the use and abuse of public power with ideological objectives. And that's happening in the Spanish State. In fact, social security also surpassed its objectives. And how is it presented Spanish – in its moment Guindos, today Calvino ; in its moment Montoro, today Montero – before the European Union said « have we completed the objectives? So at the expense of the joints. The municipalities have made a surplus of 0.52_percent of GDP; the autonomous communities, which have a deficit target of 0.4, have not made a deficit target of 0.23. Therefore, the State has gained margin. And this margin does it at the expense of the administration closest to the city. Therefore, when in this Parliament we talk many times about the need to support joint ventures, what we should do is to return to joint ventures, demand that the State return to joint ventures, and that it stop completing before the European Union at the expense of joint ventures and not making political decisions. And the same goes for autonomous communities. Therefore, we, with the political authority to have completed some objectives, must demand and this Parliament must demand that they withdraw these obligations of information, that they are due to ideological discrimination of the members forming the Government of the Government of Catalonia, because it is said and repeated publicly that if there is a non-independence government in Catalonia there would be no such control, despite the fact that we are complicating, despite the fact that we are complicating their unjust and complicating objectives more than they are, because they are systemic incomplicators. So, you need to rethink this. And to rethink in global terms the current scheme of compliments of fiscal stability: a Europe obsessed only with fiscal stability, without taking into account other elements, condemns all administrations to be able only to make austerity-based policies. And austerity must be overcome. And we must overcome it with decisions at European level, but also with decisions at State level, which I hope then to have the opportunity to share in the reply of the Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.13.0	Thank you, Vice President. I'm now sending the return to the deputy for the reply. When you're ready, Mrs. Delgado.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.14.0	Thank you, President. Well, the vice president commented on this context of economic and political difficulties and obstacles, but, despite this, the financial rigour, first of all, of Vice president Junqueras and, after Vice president Aragones and his teams not only guaranteed the presuppositional goals we comment on, but also our welfare state. Rigor in finance is basic in order to guarantee our financial sovereignty: thanks to the completion of these objectives, we can have more financial sovereignty and have the capacity to go out to the market by 2020. The Esquerra bet to increase inputs and consolidate expenditure, increasing it when possible, has yielded important fruits. Examples of this compromise have not existed: in the past legislature, the approval of citizenship income, the first right won after the economic crisis. Although it's not unfolding as fast as we want and as it could unfold if we have approved assumptions, we can't need the advent that it supposes. In this legislature, he continued to work to secure the demands of the citizenry: without going any further, last November he unblocked a wave of meths thanks in part to the reversal of 100_million euros that would allow to contract two hundred more meths of family. There is no doubt that the handling of assumptions that reverse current spending has helped to meet these demands, but the government has not stopped, despite the blocking of some parliamentary groups, which often seem more concerned about their electoral expectations than to find effective solutions to meet citizens' demands. We hope that now that all the elections scheduled in the calendar have passed, this block has ended all of a sudden. It is the rigour in managing the finances of the Generalitat that allows us to maintain the expense and increase it if necessary. For example, the compliments of the presuppositional stabilization objectives will facilitate the return of the extra payment of the employees, a demand that has been widely claimed in this Parliament, despite the fact that some political parties that here require us to make these money as soon as possible, do not use their power in Madrid to modify the conditions that prevent us from doing so until we complete these objectives. It may be recalled that the additional provision 41 of the Law of General Presumptions of the State for 2018 required the return of remuneration to public employees to the compliment, precisely, of the rule of expenditure. We have had many requests to return this extra pay and very little support to change this law. Another example: the Council of Government of May 14 approved the charge of twenty-seven school buildings for a value of 104.7 million euros, the main part, works of nine constructions that will allow to withdraw more than a hundred modules. In the band of these new constructions and thirty-seven actions that are already driving the Department of Education, it is also working to secure arrangements and agreements with twenty joints for the construction of new equipment. And speaking of joint ventures, which the vice president commented on on this first round, I would like to speak again of the reduction of the generality's debt with joint ventures. The vice president commented on the xifra of the past 622_millions, at 50_millions– in four years– today, a reduction of almost 92_per_cent. An effort to reduce the debt with the local world that has benefited from the total practice of the municipalities of Catalonia. I give some examples: the year 2015 the Generalitat owed to the Barcelona Assembly 86_million euros, which have decreased by 99,3_per_cent, to 570,000_euros. In summary, the Government is dedicated to solving the problems of the citizens. In a difficult context, it has cleaned up the finances of the Generality, and now, Vice President, we are sure that it has the will to ensure that the revenues of economic recovery have an impact on all Catalans and Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.15.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To do the next and later reply, it's the vice president's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.16.0	Thank you very much, President. MP, certainly, the management of the later years allows us today, in a world of parliamentary paradoxes of presuppositional instability, to ensure that it does not need Minister Batet to send us a request saying that we cannot make 40_per_cent of the 2013 extra pay; it does not need to be done, because we have completed the objectives. She doesn't; we do. Therefore, this request to be made, this shadow of doubt that there was, after a demand to the Government, to the Councillor Puignero, to myself, by Members of the party of Mrs. Batet, in this chamber, who demanded that we return it, and at the moment we approve it, Mrs. Batet sends us the request because she says that we do not comply, so it turns out that we comply. That's an embolism. What an embolism that demonstrates the absurdity of the model of application of this political necessity of presuppositional stabilization, which, obviously, we share, but which must be managed much better, because the State is incomplete, and can still decide to make offers of public occupation. So why can the State fail to do this, and Catalonia, despite its completion, has all the difficulties? So for a matter of sobriety. And that's not an ideological question of independence, yes or no, but it's just that if we want to have the instruments to do the right thing, we can be at the service of our fellow citizens with all the resources that they have, or even if we don't do the right thing, we can't do it because of lack of political sovereignty. And this is the debate – this is the debate. And, obviously, it is necessary to transform the current model of the system of compliments of the presuppositional estabilité, because when an incomplete economic community has to present an economic plan to finance and becomes supervised for the Ministry of Hisenda; when the Ministry of Hisenda incompleteix, it does not give accounts to anyone. So, I mean, here's something that doesn't work. Not so alone in the European Union, because as it fills the whole of Spain at the expense of the gatherings, so, obviously, let's tell them to get away with it. Therefore, changes that should be made: at European level, we need to move forward, and with the new European Commission, with the new European Parliament, we need to move towards overcoming the stabilisation and growth pact, and we need to move forward with a pact for prosperity, which I believe is not only important but also a monetary policy based on the content of the prices, but we need also to incorporate fully-fledged objectives. That it is not only important to have a budgetary policy based on the budgetary balance, but also on the dynamizing effect of the economy of public expenditure and public investment. It is necessary to reform, at the state level, the systems for the discussion of the presuppositional targets. They must be discussed and agreed among all; they must be agreed, not imposed. And if the State is incomplete, it has to pass accounts, the same way that we do when we do not complete the objectives that they mark for us. In the third place, it may change the rule of expenditure. He didn't feel it... "Theoretically, the rule of spending means: "Listen to me, in times of fat cows you don't stretch the arm more than the manic, because when they come, don't you? You'll find that you'll have made a lot of current spending commitments. But this, in these moments, the strict application of this principle as it has configured to the State makes the joints forced to make it over and, therefore, has no sense when there are pending investments in the municipalities. And, therefore, some expenditure and investment are excluded from the cost of the expenditure rule, and I think that this is absolutely basic and important. And then, finally, I believe that, even for those who want Catalonia to continue to be a part of the Spanish State, the mechanisms of discussion must change. Because a tax policy council will finance, where, as much as it achieves the votes of all the autonomous communities, only raising the hand of the ministry, so the debate and debate have ended..., actually, that's, it's not a mechanism, let's say, federal, or almost federal, it's a mechanism of, go, a minister and, therefore, it gives an audience to the economic leaders of the autonomous communities. Therefore, all this is necessary that can be transformed, because we have to recover the investment capacity of the Generality, and this is the element, the phonetic struggle of the own months and of the next year and of the own assumptions. We have increased the current expenditure, we have reached the current expenditure ahead of the crisis, but we have either regained the investment capacity or this country will lose competitiveness, and public servers and the city council will lose quality public services due to lack of investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.17.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the deployment of optical fiber]] [[302-000101/12]] Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day, which is the Movement following the Government's inquiry into the deployment of optical fiber. Before, for this reason, let me 'learn that, according to Rule 95 of the Rules, the deputy María del Camino Fernández Riol, with a motion of hospitalization, has delegated her vote during the day of today to the deputy Lorraine Roldán, spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. Let us now turn to the motion, which was presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. To expose it, Mr. Marc Solsona has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.18.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Vice-President, Members, Members, well, this young man is fruit, as a result of the inquiry we made in the last plenary, in which we talked about the planning of the deployment of the optical fiber network to the country. And, basically, we did it by arguing not only that it was a good technical solution, but that it served, basically, for three things: one, to improve competitiveness in the same country, so that everyone could compete in equal conditions; two, a struggle against depopulation – also important – and three, it is a bet for territorial balance and social cohesion. This schedule of deployment of this optical fiber network is already agreed, talked to the different members. The network has also been looked at as it is to be deployed, which are the objectives, not only at the level of small municipalities, but also mediums, capitals of the region..., and also the connection with industrial polygons. And, therefore, the one who claims this young man..., is a very technical one, a lot to see and say: "I look at the firmness and determination of the department at the time of completing with the deployment, as contemplated by the National Pact for a digital society, in which the objectives 2020 and 2023 are fixed to give full coverage to the whole country. That is why we have not been able to accept some of the points they wanted..., with good will and possibly serious parliamentary acceptance, but let us say it, at the level of government it would not be possible to accept them, such as that of Catalonia in Comú Pode, in which the modification of this calendar, therefore, we cannot guarantee it and, therefore, we cannot accept it in this sense. On the other hand, we have been able to accept and deal with the three issues of the Socialists and Units Group for Progress, with which we complement and improve our youth, and also incorporate a new point, which is: "Provide the necessary mechanisms to ensure that all the municipalities of Catalonia can access state and European Union aid in relation to the public wifi network. Therefore, it is absolutely speaking the same language, the same codes, so there would be no more history here. On the other hand, we have not been able to accept – and I have commented on it to the Deputy of Ciutadans – their views, basically, because they also want to make a connection at the level of some assumptions, at the level of also, perhaps, question the name of the same national pact. In any case, the will..., as it is very technical, is to try to make sure that without it, without more history, we also try to find the consensus that it is a young person with a good proposal, that it is already deployed, that it is already agreed, that we have cohesion and territorial agreement at the level of the country, that it has been found that it is a demand that is very necessary, that it fights the issue of territorial imbalance, depopulation and, therefore, also the struggle to try to be competitive from anywhere in our country. So let's try looking for models so we can do what we say the other day, huh? If we really want to govern or hear differently the country's new models of governance, it is very important that we are ensnared in a way that allows us to hear new ways of doing politics and of doing new social policies also through technology and, therefore, through the technological ensnarement of our country. As we believe in truth, I think this young man continues the question we asked the other day and that, therefore, we put her to the vote and hope that she can, therefore, step out of this chamber on today's day. So, thank you very much and it's already here. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.19.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, has the word in first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs.Alícia Romero. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.20.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor, deputies, deputies. We have made, the Socialist Group, a couple of items that have been accepted and, therefore, I thank the Member of Parliament Marc Solsona, and also the Department and the Government, therefore, the acceptance of our items. That's a very important topic, huh? Mr Solsona spoke with great caution, with great discretion, but the issue of the connection of the municipalities and the Catalan people is very important, not only because of economic issues, which is very often what we are talking about, but also because of educational issues, because of the digital divide that exists between populations in the most populous areas of Catalonia and, therefore, because there is an incidence. I was lucky enough to participate in some of the work of the Covenant for the Society of Knowledge, which, precisely Mr. Puignero, Councillor Puignero, in other responsibilities, therefore, led, and this was a topic in which we, from the Socialist Group and Unites for Progress, have had a lot of influence. It seems to me very relevant that a country that wants to be cosmopolitan, captavant not only with technologies, right? , but also, therefore, with start-ups, with the attraction of investments, have intelligent infrastructures available and, therefore, to us it seems that all the proposals that can be made in this line are always few. In some of the aspects that are raised, therefore, it is true that it marks the one that already established the Pact for the digital society, that it was that year 2020 there was a presence of all the capitals of the region and that 2023, to the municipality of fifty inhabitants. Clearly, that's almost all of Catalonia, isn't it? I mean, at these times, so, we only have 141 connected municipalities, that's to say, we have a lot of work to do and there's a little time left, Counselor Puignero, because we're in mid-2019, 2020_is to go to all the communities and then we're to follow almost every municipality in Catalonia. I think the government, therefore, must work bravely; we know that they are meeting with municipalities, with parliaments, but we must speed up and put the little to the accelerator so that this compromise of that pact is a reality. It's very important – we've made a statement and we've said so, haven't we? – that this cable, this optical fiber, is not only present or present in the municipality in general, but also in the areas of economic and educational activity. It seems to us very important that our schools have the optical fiber, that these children and young people can already form through the network, through the Internet without paper – if there is no fiber it is impossible for this to happen – and we have to get it especially in those municipalities where it costs more than it arrives, right? It's like, in the Pyrenees, in the areas of the Ebre..., in the most unpopulated surroundings. Therefore, it is important to do an important job if we want to generate this equal opportunity throughout the Catalan territory. Therefore, I greatly appreciate the acceptance of this theme, education is very important to us. And, then, it is true that we have also put a very close link, also, to a reflection that we often do and that our deputy Ordeig does, that is to guarantee optical fiber to the most vulnerable areas of the population; more vulnerable and more unpopulated, the two things, because you have to see, if we don't have well connected municipalities and territories that allow people to stay in those municipalities to develop an economic activity, so probably people have to leave. Therefore, we are depopulating areas of the territory that it is necessary to add population and, therefore, to coordinate and balance more the territory of Catalonia for sustainability, for mobility and for many elements that seem important to us. Therefore, if we want Catalonia, then it is a territory populated, cohesive, with equal opportunities from north to south and east to west, among other things, that optical fiber reaches these surroundings. They've accepted this, and we want to thank them, because we think they're finishing up, so a little more of this young man they're doing. We will vote in favour of all points, and above all we ask the councilman to work bravely. Yes, he says to me: « Calerons. Well, listen, I explained to Vice President Aragonès that he has to come here to make a tax reform that allows him to collect more tickets and dedicate them, for example, to the connection of optical fiber, that he has to allow us to move forward. And – I say many times – a country that is said and wants to be cosmopolitan, open, modern, captivating Europe in so many aspects as, for example, what we are dealing with today..., therefore, courage, ambition and if resources are to be prioritized..., and we do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.21.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.22.0	Thank you very much. Well, I think all the interventions will be planned, because it is also true that there has been work done by the council, by a council that, moreover, on the part of digital policies, does not even have a consolidated assumption, because it has not presupposed on the table, but that, even so, well, we have seen that we have met, that we have reached agreement with the parliaments, with local administrations, and I believe that it is also good to recognize it. We start from a very concrete perspective. The 2014 generation of the European Commission presented a communication that said "For a European industrial renaissance, and this communication, let's face it, had a very clear objective. The first is to reverse the dismantling of European industry, which had been progressive and sustained since the 1980s and which already raises problems of the viability of the welfare states and the viability of the same model of services of the European Union and assume that the industrial pes to the European Union on gross domestic product had to be of about 20_per_cent. At that moment Arthur Mas came out and said: « In Catalonia of 20_per_cent no, if we are at 18, in Catalonia of 25, because in Catalonia Europeans never get us any; in 25. We were at 18, we were at 18 per cent, we lost industrial fabric and we lost important industries in our country. And I said this in my last intervention on business policy: an economy that grows 2.8_per_cent but increases the poverty rate to 24_per_cent is a malaise economy and unable to translate productive growth and economic growth into welfare. And I think that this has a lot to do with the progressive dismantling of our industrial fabric and, therefore, it is necessary to bet to create infrastructures that allow an intelligent reindustrialisation of our country and, therefore, it is necessary to bet on infrastructures that allow the product jump that our country needs and the technological challenges that our industry has. And I have to do it, plus, assuming we can't repeat the industrialization we lived in the 20th century. And we cannot repeat it especially on three axes: we cannot re-industrialize on rural depopulation, first because it has not been able to do so and because we need to fix rural populations, and this means that we need to connect the rural world and this connection to technological infrastructures generate productive opportunities to fix people in the territory. We have to assume that this intelligent reindustrialisation has to be done on an energy transition project – and I think we also have a lot of difficulties here – we will not complete... We have declared the climate alert on an agenda of commitments that prevents us from fulfilling the energy transition targets of 2020 and 2030 and, therefore, I believe that more than declaring a climate alert, what is to be declared is a public bet to take on European commitments in the energy transition area. And it has to be an intelligent industrialisation and, for that reason, there are intelligent infrastructures in the territory. And we must also take a bet because the creation of value added to Catalonia brings research, development and innovation, and in these indexes we are down: in innovation we have gone from competing with France and Germany 15 years ago to competing with the European periphery; we have lost a 13_percent of our gross domestic product in search, development and innovation in two years. I believe that there is also a reflection here, because it is these three axes that have to structure a bet to create a web of intelligent infrastructures in the territory, with two fundamental objectives: to create and rethink public services in the territory, taking advantage of this intelligent structure– and in this we agree with the hope and with the objectives of its department–, and that these intelligent services that we create in the territory serve as the basis of a new product fabric, especially in the rural world. And a new product texture is not an economy of services with modern anglicisms– let's say, smart cities, hubs, etc.–, but it is the need to rethink, from this bet that fire and we share, also the product texture, especially of the rural world. And, therefore, three elements – and with this I finish – that we highlight the work that you are doing, but the objectives that we believe are ahead: that we also take over the deployment in the small municipalities and in the municipalities of optical fiber, municipalities that today have connections to the Internet and connections to the network that are precarious, no longer for optical fiber standards, but for the previous standards, and therefore here the General will assume the compromise. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out]] – with this I am finished – and that this extension is accompanied by an effort to think of us productive projects to the territory that benefit this network and that stimulate the local world...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.23.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.24.0	... and also to rethink – and with this I am finished – the public services of the country and how to transform them to improve the equality of opportunities.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.25.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.26.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.27.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Alfonso Sánchez has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.28.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, Members, Members, well, this motion comes to say what has already been communicated from the council: that they want to deploy fiber optics in the municipalities of more than fifty inhabitants. And we agree; but we already know that this is one of the first projects you want to do to reach your happy Arcadia, your digital republic, your particular Matrix. And the councillor has always said, "The republic will be digital or not; you know it yourself. What I'm surprised is that in this motion there is not a name, the name of the creator of all this: Xarxa Oberta. Ink rivers have been written on the Xarxa Oberta, and all of a sudden it is a plan to deploy fiber optics. Have we missed something? Will they change his name, as they do with all that fails? Why are they hiding now? It is possible that our parliamentary questions in the Digital Policy Committee have brought about some change, which is no longer clear as to the actual purpose of Xarxa Oberta. The questions we asked were aimed at knowing the use by citizens of fiber optics, which the Xarxa Oberta is installing in Catalonia with the taxes of all Catalans and which is only offered to suppliers. I mean, citizens pay for their installation through their taxes, even if they don't use it, and then they pay again for having the service if they want it. That is why our amendments are in this direction; we want transparency. Of which, by the way, none has been accepted. Our group has tabled two amendments to ensure transparency and to know, to be sure, that the millions that are costing us this plan are really justified. And as far as we can see, he who is silent grants. Something as simple as using the same web that they want to implement for suppliers, that is used for citizens to also have information about this plan..., not on a technical level, but on an informative basis. They do not want transparency, and that is why we will continue to insist. In the past Digital Policy Committee we asked you about how many private users use fiber optics, and we were told that they cannot give us the data because the suppliers are private. Look, do operators really not want to give you this data, when we can consult them on the internet every semester, every quarter, every month? , as, for example, the National Commission on Markets and Competition. And that is precisely what we are calling for in our second amendment, on transparency. Or is it that a million dollars are being spent on installing an optical fiber that no one uses? We want to know if public money is being wasted on a service that is being offered by operators in most places where they say they are deploying fiber optics. Or is it that you are creating a totally opaque network so that you, and only you, can control it? , that all data from Catalans pass through their networks and know this traffic information, geolocation of mobile devices, emails, whatsapps, Facebook, Twitter, political ideology... In short, that all our data pass through their filters. You have always said so, and here the councillor Puignero has never hidden it, that what you want is to make a new blow to democracy, but in digital version. And that is why we want more transparency, to know whether it is really a service created to benefit the citizens or to control them. Or to create a new chiringuito to place the friends of the process. Because, while they have made it clear about their digital republic, there is another worrying aspect, and it is that a public service is being deployed with everyone's money, with an absolute lack of transparency. And we are concerned that this lack of transparency in your case is due to their intention to end up privatizing this company. Do some of you intend to land on the board of directors of this company, charging millions of dollars when you end up with your trial scam? So again I ask you the question that I asked you in the Digital Policy Committee: will you privatize the public company that deploys fiber optics when the project ends in 2023? We don't trust you. Thank you very much, President. Deputies, deputies, councillors... [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.29.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.30.0	Well, thank you, President. To say therefore that, despite the fact that it seems to us that it is a young person without great relevancy, because it simply reminds us of what it is to do and the commitments that it generates, we will vote in favour of it, as we have already expressed our agreement with the National Pact for a digital society at the time. But for this young man we want to make a point of a debate that seems to be relevant to us, and that is the subject of technological sovereignty. The current evolution of information technologies is accompanied by a constant loss of sovereignty. The free programmer does not have a remarkable presence in sectors where it should a priori be hegemonic, as in the case of education or public administration. For this reason, we, the CUP - the Constituent Creed, defend a technological model based on free-code and open data technologies that guarantee the rights of the people, increase freedoms and are accessible to everyone, to the people and not to multinationals. In this sense we want to highlight, for example, the event of '1 October: the State lost the computer battle, lost the digital battle, and this was thanks to free software and decentralized management network. And if we're talking about sovereignty, freedom and care and protection, then it's imperative that the telecommunications networks are under public control and management. The Generalitat de Catalunya has invested from 2013 more than 100_million euros to create the optical fiber network of Catalonia, in order to facilitate access to optical fiber to all the municipalities of the Principality. It is a network, although it also includes the Open Network of Catalonia, and one part of which is currently managed by the company Cellnex, and another by Telefónica. This infrastructure was deployed with public money, but today the part managed by Telefónica does not offer the public and regulated prices that it is obliged to offer by contract because it brings optical fiber to all the populations of the country. So, listen, there's no sense that we want to talk about sovereignty or the construction of sovereignty, if a resource such as technological telecommunications infrastructure is in the hands of private companies, are in the hands of IBEX 35 or in the hands of multinational conglomerates, that in no case will they be on our side if we want to build a real sovereignty and self-determination. So, listen to me, vagrantly speaking of sovereignty, because whatever you look at from the outside and see that you have a basic resource, such as technology, in the hands of private operators of this nature..., so it will seem a project with very little consistency. That's why we, like we claim sovereignty, and we have experiences that support us, we talk about free software, decentralized network, and that technological resources are in the hands of the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.31.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs Esperanza García has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.32.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, well, we'll vote for this young man. It is obvious that the digital choice which is a memory for the past and for the equal opportunities of the territories that are not great cities, and this young man went this way. And it's also true that it's a tool..., to achieve the total deployment of optical fiber, plus 5 and 4G technology, allows these areas to develop not only on equal terms, but also to fight against a problem that we have not only in Catalonia but all of Spain, which is rural depopulation, and advance in which is economic development. The motion was very related to what the National Pact for Digital Society is, but we need to be a little critical, because it's been two years and it seems that the advances are very small. Made a little irony, faster, much faster to the optical fiber and to the 4 and 5G grid. And we also find that there is a certain inconcretion, but not only in this young man, but also in the pact. Makes the Member Solson an affirmation of "we're still looking for the model. And to Congressman Solsona, who I don't know where I have... – here – I give him a model, to see if he likes it: it's the model 100x300, it's the model of evolution and digital compromise that brought Mariano Rajoy to term to the government in 2016 and that allowed even today, that Spain is the European country that most optical fiber has deployed to all of Europe, which is a 76_per_cent. But what's the point? Inversion. The €525_million that this plan 100x300 invested in the territory, so it allows this: to advance and reach these quotas of 76_per_cent. And you do not make it concrete; do not make it concrete in this motion and do not make it concrete in the pact. And I'm telling you one thing: don't throw a public company to do this. Model 100x300 without public enterprise, more fiber deployment, more equal opportunities... I think they have the opportunity to start realising it and do it efficiently.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.33.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Montserrat Fornells has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.34.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone. To this motion of Junts for Catalonia on the deployment of optical fiber to our country, on behalf of our group we will give support, since we consider that this deployment is absolutely necessary, and the submissions and transactions from the PSC group do not end up improving the writing, as has already been explained by Congresswoman Solsona and Congresswoman Romero. Certainly, this proposal to deploy optical fiber up a hair late, but it is also important, key and urgent that it can be implemented as soon as possible better and that it reaches any raccoon in our country. Counselor Puignero, in his previous intervention to this young man – and he also made it to the meeting of mayors and mayors of Ponent, Pirineu and Solsonès in Bellpuig – stressed that the deployment of optical fiber is the basis of digital economy and also an essential tool to avoid depopulation. He also said that the optical fiber network is important for the vertebracy of the country and to guarantee the equal opportunities of the territory. Obviously, the deployment of optical fiber will benefit the different municipalities and companies of Catalonia, especially the rural world and the Pyrenees. Mirin, I come from a small municipality of Noguera, Vilanova de l'Aguda, a municipality of less than two hundred inhabitants and size per five clusters of population, of which I have the honour of being the mayor. And in our municipality we suffer from the lack of internet coverage, mobile coverage and TDT coverage. Moreover, it is also a municipality that in recent years has been severely affected and affected by the problem of rural depopulation. Obviously, not having tools and services has made it difficult for some young people, businesses or people to continue living in our municipalities. The case of my municipality is one more example than the vast majority of small and medium-sized municipalities in our country. Therefore, one of the most important challenges we have as a country is to address the problem of rural depopulation. There are country bets, brave, cross-cutting and resources needed to curb depopulation, and the deployment of optical fiber is not a clear example, because, if we really believe in territorial balance and believe that there must be no first and second-class citizens, and that everyone, who sees us, has the same opportunities, that all the government and the different institutions of the country are working and that they approach it in a coordinated and urgent way. Last November, together with other Members and Members of this Parliament – all of whom I liked to see from different political backgrounds – I attended a day of ‘Repopulation the Territory! Aguilar de Segarra. And one of the main conclusions of that day was that it was necessary to invest in the rural world to curb its depopulation, that it was necessary to attract people to rural areas to develop their life plan. And, therefore, services and tools are needed to promote work opportunities that are vital to rural municipalities. For example, measures such as service creation promotion and connectivity were highlighted. Therefore, the deployment of optical fiber is very important. Also this past March in Copons, in the Anoia, there was the III Convention of the Association of Micropopulations. In this case it was made public and presented the pre-project micro-population status, a tool that must be used to guarantee the future of micro-populations, and one of the actions that contemplates this status as most prominent is the deployment of services as optical fiber. So let's hope that when we get better, or at least not to expand further from the planned deployment calendar, the optical fiber can come back from Catalonia and do so to all the municipalities, and not only to all the municipalities but to all the towns and villages in the country. This must be a country's highest priority because we are..., and we live in the rural world and want to continue living there we want to have these services and to have the same opportunities for the future, both for our peoples and especially for our young people, that we can make it happen and that it is the first step of much progress in policies and actions that promote territorial balance and help to curb depopulation. We make it possible and we make it as fast as the Internet connection that our people and our citizens deserve. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.35.0	To pronounce on the papers, has the new word the deputy Marc Solsona. [[Pause.]] Yeah? Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.36.0	Well, as I said in the speech, we would accept the three points of the Socialist Group, and therefore with the text that we have already passed here at the Bureau. Okay?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.37.0	All right. Thank you, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. [[Pause.]] While we call for a vote, ask the group if there is any separate petition for a vote. [[Pause.]] I understand you don't. [[Long break.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the motion. I asked the group if there was any separate motion for a vote. Looks like it's not. We can therefore vote on the joint motion. The vote begins. The motion following the question to the Government on the deployment of optical fibre has been unanimously approved, namely, 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the improvement of the management of the disappearance of persons and support for families]] [[302-0002/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the improvement of the management of the disappearance of persons and support to families, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. You have the word to expose it to Congressman Rafel Bruguera. When he wants to. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.38.0	Vice President, Deputies and Deputies, very honorable President, Councillors, Councillor of the Interior, good day. The motion following the question which I had the honour of presenting to the Councillor of the Interior on behalf of our parliamentary group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, this motion, I repeat, consists of nine points. The first two are concerned with the institutional need to raise the disappeared, to show solidarity with their cause, with their families, and to keep their cause alive socially. That is why at the first point we propose to close the institutional declaration of this Parliament, approved unanimously at the plenary session of March 2, 2016, and therefore to show and reiterate our solidarity, the solidarity of the Members of the Parliament of Catalonia, with the families and friendships of the disappeared people. And the second point is that, as a result of the first one, March 9th, which is the day of disappeared persons without apparent cause, the Government of the Generality organizes every year an institutional act in collaboration with associations of relatives of disappeared persons to honor, to raise families and to remember disappeared persons. And entering the rest of the points, which the government is already urging to launch certain initiatives, I would like to refer to a few briefly. In the first place, from our point of view, it is necessary to deepen the elaboration of homogeneous statistical studies, research programs, etc., for a greater involvement and social awareness of a problem: that, as I explained in the inquiry, every year in Catalonia is produced five thousand, about five thousand complaints of disappearance of people. Therefore, we are talking about a really important problem and little visible, with some exceptions, to Catalan society. Also, the need to establish lines of help, lines of advice, with the associations they assist, that give recollection to the families of disappeared people. And when we talk about help, we don't only refer to ourselves and exclusively, that maybe also, to economic help, but to other types. Basically in Catalonia there are two associations of disappeared family members, Inter-SOS and Afades, who compare, who are here in Parliament, to whom I greet cordially. Also, the need to have up-to-date protocols, help guides, guides of good practices and follow-up to those affected by disappearances, especially for which it makes the administrative and judicial expedients; the power and improvement and coordination and collaboration between administrations; the need to improve the growth of data from missing persons with unidentified cadavers; the exchange of experiences between the various specialized units, or the creation of a European network – I already know that this is not only the competence of the Generality, but it can help – to facilitate the information with the highest speed. Another point refers to the Office of Assistance to Families of Disappeared Persons. What we say is that we can reverse the detail and that the office has sufficient human resources and assumptions. A date, just. The creation of the custody of the President of the Generality, of the Pretorian Guard, with one hundred and fifty steps has been announced. In change, if a person calls the office the most likely answer is an automatic answering machine. That, counselor, we don't think it's a waste. And finally, and very quickly, two fears that for us they are phonenal. In the first place, he warned. There is a risk population that needs to be prevented through geolocation systems. And secondly, and for us too, very important, and since there have not been any intuitous considerations, so, that has been well accepted by the government, the need to have an interdepartmental commission, a work table, the name doesn't do the thing, formed by representatives of the commissions of Interior, Justice, Greeting, Social Services, Education, and that with the respective associations can address [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish, Vice-President – in an integral and cross-cutting way the problem arising from the disappearance of a person from all points of view, legal, psychological and also social. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.39.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. It has the word below, to present the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group Republicà, the deputy Anna Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.40.0	Thank you, Vice President. Good morning, everybody. To give thanks, first, to the entities that are with us today and, on the other hand, also to Congressman Bruguera to put us on this table. I think a lot of the parliamentary groups that we're here have come to terms with this, and I think it's a problem and a sensitivity that's causing us all. Therefore, thank the honourable Member for this work and our commitment to move forward in all these aspects, and also for the ease he has given us to agree, so with these small nuances that we have finally been able to work on. We would agree with this focus on the table, above all the fact of visibility. They remind us of these 4,500 missing people in 2018, one every two hours. I think this puts us in value that is a real need for confrontation. Even though this 94_per_cent of cases are solved before a_month, we do value the one asking point 3, which is working for this visibility. I what? Generating these homogeneous statistical studies, these structural research programs, this listening to everyone, to add all possible tools to our abyss. Because everything that resolves this 94_per_cent of cases, we're talking about a topic that isn't solved with statistics; we're talking about fears that only a case that isn't solved generates a lot of concern at the family level, at the level of around, and the anxiety that this may suppose. I think we've all lived at some point in our lives to be able to address some administration and find us a window that will reach us. From here there are two options. I felt the other day someone who said, "When this window gets smaller every day, when this window at the end is tiny and notes that it doesn't give you a solution..., it's a feeling that we've all felt and that we don't want to share. Therefore, from the Administration we have the obligation that this window, when we address it, each time we get bigger, that we get out of there understand that they have listened to us, that we seek and find solutions to our problems. And I think this is what we're talking about. It is this integral answer, that is this office that really answers in all the future, that when you are addressed to you you have all the tools that will make you stronger, that you have the resources to be legally addressed, that you have a social reinforcement, no longer, even in this sense that we are talking about the missing people, only everything that includes it, because in the end it affects families and everything that probably doesn't know for a long time what happened to this family. Therefore, this answer always – always, always – in this always integral attention to the person. And to strengthen this office of care to the family with all – with all – these resources; that you never, ever, this attention, to a sea of doubts, but that you nurse us of all these necessary tools in order to face the situation with strength. And we need to move forward. We must move forward with legal instruments, perhaps not all of us in our abyss, but we must put ourselves in the table, for this helplessness when sometimes this death may not be legal, this indefinacy leads to a void of legal remedies, of what does the infant that his father may have not yet found, what does the family that has to face a mortgage or many more acts administered and for twenty years sees a void. Therefore, it is a national challenge to find these solutions. And I think that, in the end, this may be essential that there should be any policy, which is prevention; in the end, it is moving us to the problems, because it forces us to find half the solutions. And, as Congressman Bruguera said, these new technologies that are in our abyss to attack this 52_per_cent, probably, of disappearances associated with neurodegenerative diseases..., here we do have in our abyss to take a step forward from being able to anticipate, that this location is easier and that in the end we give all these solutions to citizenship and accompanying in a very complicated situation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.41.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the words of MP Aurora Madaula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.42.0	Well, good morning. Thank you very much, President. Deputies, deputies, councillors, members of Catalonia's civil society and, in particular, members of associations of disappeared persons who accompany us today, good morning. We know that the disappearance of people in the family environment generates trauma, a denial; it violates life, it violates the normal development of this life. And it's imperative that since the government of the Government of Catalonia has studied, it's work, it's looking for missing people. But we also believe that support and attention to family life is essential. From the meetings in Catalonia, we find the motion presented by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units to move forward very interesting and purposeful, and we thank them for their willingness to accept the papers presented and to make the compromise of the texts of one of the points to reach a satisfactory solution. We announce, therefore, that we will vote affirmatively on this motion, so that it can be approved and fired forward and that the Government can develop the new ideas that are found in this motion and can continue to work, as it is already working, and improving the many aspects related to the management of missing persons and support for families. When we talk about missing people, we face a negit, as I have already said, in a crisis. And it is for this reason that the management and resolution of the conflict cannot be left only from a single point of view, but from inter-disciplinary analysis and resolution, in this case, interdepartmental on the part of the Government of the Generality. Therefore, we believe that it is not possible to focus from the Department of the Interior, but that it must be a joint job; a joint job which, as I mentioned in the question that preceded this young man, must have a certain sense of state, a certain sense of state to solve and solve the problems of Catalonian citizenship. Disappeared persons, such as the adviser in his intervention in the inquiry preceding this motion, have three types, from which we can summarise three categories: the disappearances of volunteers – in this case we can speak of adults with economic or family problems, or even of minors who disappear voluntarily, but in this case we should know a lot about the management and the legal terms of the disappearance, for reasons of nationality – ; disappearances of non-volunteers, as a result of accidents, disorientation which ends up in danger, as unfortunately we know in many cases in the rural environment, in the police woods of Catalonia, with non-volunteers, as a result of accidents, and which ends up in danger, as a rule, in the case of disappearances, but also in the case of conflict with Catalonia, with non-volunteers or excursionists, as a result of disappearances, or in the case of disappearances, in the case of disappearances, in the case of disappearances, in the case of disappearances, in the case of disappearances, in the case of disappearances, in the case of disappearances, in the case of disappearances, in the case of the case of disappearances, in the case of disappearance, in the case of disappearance, in the case of the case of disappearance, in the case of the case of disappearances, in the case of disappearance, in the case, in the case, in the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of disappearance, the case of the case of the situation of the case of the case of disappearance of the case of disappearance of disappearance of the case of the case of the case of disappearance of the The three categories of missing persons, however... the first to do, in all three categories, is to put it in the knowledge of the police, of the police authorities. And in this sense I can emphasize, and do so strictly, the one that recommends to us the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, that it is that I cannot wait to denounce this disappearance at twenty-four hours, I cannot wait twenty-four hours to denounce it, and the import, in fact, of doing so as soon as possible, to resolve satisfactorily the disappearance. In fact, as mentioned before, 2018 saw 4,447 disappearances and in 98_percent of the cases these people were located. Therefore, it is very important to make the authorities aware of their disappearance as soon as possible. I believe that the resolution is on the axes of what was spoken to the inquiry, but the three axes are: resolution, prevention and inter-departmental commission, which will already be approved in this motion the three points, with the office of disappeared persons; prevention with reports, analysis, follow-up of groups or people, have a protocol established that can be completed, and an inter-departmental commission on internal work, justice, health, social services, education... But especially..., introducing us aspects, such as innovation, the services that refer to DNA or geolocation, which in this case have already been made clear in those forced disappearances to find out what was common in the Civil War, and Rome's consortion with them. So, a record here for Councilman Romeva, and let's get the motion straight. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, in order to fix his position, the Member Dimas Gragera of the Ciutadans Group has the first word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.44.0	Thank you, Vice President. Deputies, deputies, councillors, good morning to everyone. First of all, I would like to begin by thanking – and it is not parliamentary courtesy – the Socialist Party of Catalonia for the introduction of this motion, and also Afades, the entity that promotes it, because it is going to allow us to have a debate in this chamber full of humanity and dignity, to face a painful reality, such as that in our society there are people who disappear without leaving any trace and leaving lives destroyed. Because as long as our world continues, as long as we continue with our debates here, as long as we continue with our daily lives, there is a world that stops, and stops at that precise moment in which you see for the last time your loved ones. And from there, therefore, by the testimonies of the people I have been able to talk to, all are unanswered questions, questions that echo in the silence of all sleepless nights they carry, that they can only reconcile sleep with the help of some medicine, some pill, and it is that mixture of conflicting feelings, too, isn't it? , of desolation, of helplessness, of sadness, of sorrow, of despair, of anger, of imagination, in some moments... MPs, MPs, we're all parents, mothers, sons, daughters, grandchildren, grandchildren, and everyone, imagine, right? , we've all ever missed a family member in a shopping mall, or that message that we send and that doesn't arrive, or that phone call that comes three_hours later..., imagine if the relief that it feels when finally, after this concern, we meet with our family member. But imagine also the reality of these people who do not receive that family member and how they can feel. When we say good-bye to a loved one we always say ‘do not delay or ‘until then, but there are times when that later never arrives, or that ‘do not delay becomes twenty or thirty years, as are the cases of some people who accompany us and I would like, with your permission, to mention them expressly. These are the cases of Isidre and Dolors, who disappeared more than thirty years ago from a hospital in Manresa. Or are the cases of Cristina, who disappeared twenty-two years ago in Cornellà. Or from Martos, who disappeared almost two years ago, they said earlier, picking up ballots near Lleida. Or the case of Oscar, brother of..., a case I know very closely, being Santa Coloma de Gramenet, and here is his sister, my friend Conchi, who has also been looking for him for over a year. They are some examples of the pain of some families, a pain that some experts say is superior to that of death itself, because we are not prepared for many things, but I believe that if there is something for which we are not prepared it is to face an unanswered life. And in this situation, as they said before, there are more than five hundred families in Catalonia and eleven_ thousand families throughout Spain. That is why we are going to add, without fissures and welcoming the unanimous adoption, to what this motion calls for, which ultimately calls for visibility, in the end calls for more resources, in the end calls for more transparency and calls for clear protocols. And we are going to do so with that sense of responsibility that they asked us to be willing here too for the Government to support anything we can support. Because I've told the family members: sometimes, when they move the problem – I think the counselor will understand it too – we have a bit of impotence, because we'd like to go further. But I believe that today we are sending a message that in this country, if anyone disappears, he will be found; that in this country, if anyone makes someone disappear, he will be sought and paid with all that of the law for his action. And please, now I insist that we spare no resources. I believe that the cause is just, that the cause is worthy, and from Citizens we do not doubt it: we will be next to all those who have to face and fight against adversity, against time and against forgetfulness. Many of us have decided to take a step forward in politics to legitimately defend our differences. But, if I may, I like it better when we are in the defence of dignity, in the defense of the just causes, and I believe that there is no more just cause, or few will be able to defend, than to prevent a life from remaining in oblivion. That's why we've launched all our support for families from here. I repeat, we join the motion. And I would like to end with a phrase from Paco Lobatón, a journalist who, well, has spent a lot of time in his professional career searching for missing persons and making these causes visible, and it is the title of his book, of I will seek you all my life. I believe that from here today, from Parliament, from all groups, we are going to send a message: do not fail, because we will seek them all our lives. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.45.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the turn of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, and has the word the deputy Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.46.0	Vice President, to speak from the escho... First of all, we wanted to thank the group proposing the contents of the present motion. But to give thanks also to the entities, to the associations, that surely are the real ones responsible for today, in their parliamentary office, we are talking and we are discussing this motion, and above all not to fall into oblivion. It must be very difficult – and let's face it – not only to see a friend, a family member, a missing daughter, but to find no answer in the day to day. I believe that there have been very clear interventions that preceded us and explained the difficulty of this pain. We also want to make reference..., explained to us or illustrated to us the deputy Bruguera of the loneliness that can also be felt when, as the administration, what we donate as the answer is an automatic answering machine. And it's very good that we're getting out of here with a reinforced collective view, especially for the entities, but we also think if in the end, in concrete terms, sometimes the answer we have is that. We know that the whole protocol has been improved on the part of the Squadron Mosses and insists on the need to give an answer or, more accurately, to report the first twenty-four hours; but this, beyond what legality says, should also be accompanied by the fact that the first twenty-four hours are available, because every time after the disappearance, all the experts and all the experts tell us that this makes it difficult. And it's also important for us: families can't and don't have to assume the cost of research, we don't have to transfer them to families, and so we also have to strengthen the role of public administrations in not only giving a psychological response, a follow-up response to family and friends, but also giving an intervention response to resolve, surely in the first days, to what may be disappearances that turn into some other things. We, beyond the political differences that we may have with any of the questions of the motion – not to mention, we also have to say – do think that this is an issue in which we need to move forward and, therefore, our vote will be in favour of all and each of the points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.47.0	Thank you, Congressman. And now to position himself has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Daniel Serrano. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.48.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, first of all, greet the entities representing the missing families. Thank you again for your presence in Parliament. I would also like to congratulate the Socialist Group on the introduction of a motion which we consider very appropriate and very appropriate. When we talk about missing persons and their families, we don't just talk about statistics. It doesn't matter if these statistics are positive, negative, if they're better, if they're worse, there's a situation of family dramas that doesn't allow any euphoria, and I insist, and it doesn't matter that these statistics can be better or worse, all they indicate is how the job is being done, but in no case should it lead us to lower the guard. And that is why it is the duty of the public administration to be behind these families. And it is an obligation, because, behind each of these dramatic situations of voluntary, forced disappearances, derived from criminal activity or not, when the media hotspots that occur when one of these situations occurs, it is there, right there, when the Public Administration must walk alongside these families. It is therefore the duty of the public administration to support these families at all times. Organizing an institutional act on March 9 to visualize these families is fine, but it is not enough. Recognition of the work of the various police officers, as well as of the different professionals who can intervene in these situations is good, but it is not enough; more resources and more cooperation are needed, not only between the different police forces, but also between the different departments. To tell families, as this motion does, that we are with them, is fine, but it is not enough. Facts are required, instruments are required to be made available to associations representing relatives of missing persons. More economic resources, more human resources and, of course, work also on the prevention aspect. In short, there is a long way to go and many aspects to improve in order to make the hard and difficult path of these families easier and, therefore, we too will support this motion. Thank you very much, president, deputies, deputies...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.49.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word again the deputy Rafel Bruguera. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me, haven't you spoken? So hope's, hope's, Mr Bruguera, who was missing, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mrs Yolanda López. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.50.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. A greeting and all solidarity, in my own, and on behalf of my parliamentary group, Catalunya in Comú Puem. Catalonia is the territory of Spain with the most high-risk disappearances and today we have twelve complaints of disappearance per day. In 2018, 4,447 complaints were filed with disappearances in the Catalan police stations, and, as already highlighted in the question before this motion the deputy Bruguera, 52_per_cent of these disappearances occur in people with some kind of illness, mental disorder or neurodegenerative disorder. It is true that, in recent years, we have made progress on the search for these people, on research and on the care of family members. But, as already highlighted by the colleagues who have previously passed through here, or the comrade of the PSC himself, we have a lot of work and a lot of road to go, for what will be fundamental the predisposition of the administrations; in this case, the determination and predisposition of the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia will be essential. Obviously, there is also a lot of work to be done since the Congress of Deputies, but we share the idea of the comrades of the PSC on the possibility of moving forward within our regulatory framework in this area, that is to say, moving forward here, from Catalonia. With regard to the Office for the Care of Families of Missing Persons, Catalonia cannot allow these families, at such a terrible time, as dramatic as it is when a family member disappears, to be cared for by a machine or an automatic answering machine and not to be cared for by a professional with the right knowledge and notions to make these people feel as comfortable as possible by the Catalan Administration. But, for that, we need a clear commitment from this Government, which has been showing us that sometimes these social investment plans do not get very much into their logic. With regard to measures for the prevention of missing persons, from Catalonia to Comú Puedos we are committed to the application of all the necessary technologies to prevent disappearances. It cannot be that, here, we can be using all kinds of technological advances, but we are unable to use them for things as important as preventing the disappearance of people, people at risk of disappearance due to mental health problems. Therefore, we bet that all the necessary resources be put in to avoid it. On the point concerning the interdepartmental commission or working table to deal with these types of issues, we believe that it is essential to have the participation, advice and information of associations of families of missing persons, such as Inter-SOS and Afades, to generate statistical studies, research programmes, protocols of action on the subject; as well as we see it essential to give visibility to this cause. And for all this, we will vote in favour of this motion from the PSC, which we thank you for bringing it to this House, hoping that the Government will take into account what this Parliament urges it to do, what this Parliament approves and puts into effect and does not leave it on wet paper. Thank you so much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.51.0	Thank you, Congresswoman, the apology'm. Now yes, to pronounce on the papers, has the word the deputy Mr Rafel Bruguera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.52.0	Thank you, President. First of all, thank all parliamentary groups for their support of the motion. I think it is very important that a motion of these characteristics can be approved unanimously in the Parliament of Catalonia. Secondly, despite this, and without any controversy with Mrs Madaula, I would like to think that, as of today's intervention, there will be no doubt that there is a new element, a new way of disappearing, that they are the politically persecuted; I do not think that there are missing persons, as I thought Mrs Madaula wanted to say. In any case, introduce this theme – I already know they have to do it every time, don't they? – to all interventions, but, on a subject like this, introduce this to me seems that it did not touch mass. Respect the two exams. One we have accepted, is that it refers to the Office of Assistance to Families of Disappeared Persons and, with which, we remain with the fact that, indeed, there is a commitment on the part of the Government to improve with human resources especially, but not only the office. And the other point, which we have negotiated, which seems also important to us and which I want to explain very briefly, especially, to the people who accompany us. Commitment to establish, sign cooperation agreements with associations, especially with Inter-SOS and with Afades, to help and support them and advise on all issues that may arise. Therefore, from tomorrow, "press because you can sign an agreement between you and the government. And, just and finally, tell the friends of QSDglobal, Afades and Inter-SOS that we will see dissabte he sees to Santa Coloma de Cervello. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.53.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, ma'am Madaula, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.54.0	Yes, by allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.55.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.56.0	Yeah. It seems to me very well to defend the disappeared people and, as I have already said, we are totally in agreement and we will defend until this young man and we defend that he can develop the young man in this way. In any case, you mentioned the Pretorian Guard of the Squadron Mosses in his intervention and therefore I seem quite unjust that he took me back for citing a political conflict...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.57.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.58.0	...that we will defend and continue to defend and that we will not normalize the situation that we are living in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.59.0	Congresswoman, time's up. Thank you. I understand from the speeches that there is no separate request for a vote. [[Pause.]] Therefore, we can vote on the motion in a single vote. The vote begins. The Movement following the Government's inquiry into the improvement of the management of the disappearance of persons and support of family members has been unanimously approved. [[Perlongats applause.]] Thank you very much. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the security of towns and cities]] [[302-0007/12]] Keep going. The next item on the agenda is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on the security of the people and the cities, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.60.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, I want to make a call to the memory of the victims of Vic's terrible attempt of May 29, 1991, yesterday he made twenty-seven years ago when the terrorist gang ETA blew up a car bomb in the middle of the Civil Guard quarter house, where a group of children were playing. As I have just passed through Catalonia, as I have personally denounced in this Parliament, these dates go unnoticed not only by local and autonomous governments, but also by the vast majority of the population and the media. But I want to remember the victims of that terrible storm, the two women, the three men, the five children who died and the forty-four wounded by the explosion, an storm that destroyed the life of a mountain of families. Yesterday it was twenty-seen years. And they don't think, no, that there was a great act of homenating Vic. The families, with the sole support of the Catalan Association of Victims of Terrorist Organizations, returned their tribute in private to the graves of Vic's cemetery, where the victims of the storm are buried. Alone and in private, because they are tired of the mockery that makes some vigatans, of the pain, when they manifest it in public before the solar in which there was the quarter house. Institutional shame, too. Today, I wanted to say these record words, because they deserve memory, dignity, justice and reparation. Let's get some rest. [[Greetings.]] Entering the station, thirteen points in two blocks. A first block with only two points, in which Parliament has the opportunity to make an explicit thank-you and recognition to the task of the security forces and cosmos, which are used for the protection and security of the citizen, and the Bombers' cosmos, of the Medical Emergencies Service, the Civil Protection Service and the operators of CAGTU 112, which act with the utmost diligence and speed in the protection of the citizens. A second block, with a total of eleven points, with constructive proposals, is the moment the government improves security, this certainty is the guarantee of the free exercise of the fundamental rights and that the government must age to keep and improve at all times. The motion asks the Government to develop a new comprehensive project for the Emergency Trick Management and Attention Centre, CAGTU 112, to make it a true integrated emergency manager, something more than a call center. This project must allow better control over the contracting companies of the service avoiding job insecurity, improving the working conditions, the ability to manage the emergencies and the effectiveness of the performance of this service. We also ask for a better coordination of social services of public title that avoid dysfunctions like the one produced by the principles of April in which it was left out of control a potentially dangerous person who shortly after attacked, maimed and sexually assaulted a woman to the beautiful mig of Barcelona. Once again, we focus on the need to improve police coordination instruments and to ensure that requisitions and search and capture orders always contain all the information that can be collected to locate, identify and capture offenders. This is particularly true of the need to continue working in the best possible cooperation and coordination with the Barcelona metro security services, with the Barcelona Urban Guard and with the local police in the metropolitan area, in collaboration with the corresponding assemblies, in order to reduce the criminal incidence in the installations of this transport service. In the last few months we have seen how the citizens of Barcelona have organized themselves to sail for the security of the metro of Barcelona, with groups dedicated to fighting against the thefts continued to the different lines of this transport service. One of the main issues behind this movement in Ciutadans is the need to fight against attacks and hate episodes of sexual discrimination that are constantly patenting the LGTBI collection, attacks that are completely unacceptable in a democratic and open society. The Ciutadans Group is also concerned about the situation of lack of protection and the lack of effective protection that the minor strangers have not accompanied. As we are concerned about illegal occupations that alter the coexistence or repeated episodes of coercion and violence that certain totalitarian groups practice with the objective of restricting the free exercise of the phonenal rights of certain persons and collectivities. We also ask for an accurate study of the distribution of the effects of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. There is a considerable lack of effectiveness, but it is necessary to make a redistribution that improves police efficiency. In this sense, the movement also contemplates a better collaboration with local police in the fight against organized crime. In short, we believe that this young man is a necessary young man, he is a young man who has improved with the input of other parliamentary groups, and we ask for the support of Parliament to promote the government's action in this matter. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.61.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented has the word, in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.62.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, wanted to start the intervention by adding solidarity with Vic's victims and also asking them not to use pain to politicize him in his interest, because you are Vic's? Did you live Vic? I do, and I know perfectly well the pain that Vic's city feels for these tempts, the conjunction of Vic's city. [[Greetings.]] That said, the security policies, the security model, and even the whole concept of security for us is radically opposed to what you are planting in this House. Miri, we talk about plural security; for our other security is having a home to live; security is having a soul or a decent thought that I allow you to arrive at the end of the month; security is democratizing and having access to common good with water or with energy; security is not having to go home alone; security is not being discriminated against by reason of gender, by your birthplace or by your social class. We believe that in the face of all these insecurities that need to be comprehensive responses to protection, above all to social protection. We demand people and cities as places of encounter and coexistence between different people, because we understand that this enriches our societies and that what it is to build a community. And to keep it quiet, proximity policies that build trust, respect, compromise and co-responsibility. In the face of policies of rebreeding, criminalization, victimization and criminalization of the vulnerable, above all, which is what is good for this young man, what we say is that we need to mobilize in favour of respect and diversity. It is true that we live in a society changing, with risks, with problems, with new insecurity, but we cannot give all the answers to the professional of security, because we are not only before a problem that can be solved with more and better police; many of the insecurities that we have today have to see with the education system, with social inequalities, with inequalities of gender, with gaps and stereotypes of consumption, with lack of housing policies, etcetera, and therefore, with comprehensive responses. And that's not taking the trouble away or looking at the other side, years on the other side, it's getting to the point of the problem. Obviously the problems of 112 can be solved, that better coordination between the police units, that they are more effective, but, look, we have proposed a plan to increase the endowment of Mossos d'Esquadra to the city of Barcelona and they did not accept it. In Barcelona, I gave it to Counsellor Buch yesterday, we need a hundred and fifty moves before the summer; I asked him and he didn't want to answer me if they would put them or not. And, Counselor Buch, since he's back here today, you accused me yesterday of lying to claim that the Mossos had given Desokupa cover to Sants' barri. And, pardon me, but who didn't tell the truth was you: the intervention of the Mosso yesterday in the Sants bloc was produced without a court order. When the Mossos arrived, what had occurred was an out-of-court dislocation, and who was found in Desokupa, this extortionist mob that he collects to leave without habitating families with children. And the Mossos, in place of making out of the building the kills of Desokupa, what they did was carry against who defended the vulnerable families, and they did so by jumping the protocol, carrying over the waist. That's what happened yesterday. And he saw it all the time, counselor, he saw it all the time. And, in front of that, what do we propose? We therefore propose that the Government of the Generality report to the public prosecutor Desokupa for the extra-judicial relocations, which could be prevented in alleged crimes of threats, coercion and home abuse; that the Department of Interior issue an agreed instruction with social entities to give clear orders to the Cos dels Mosos before the interventions of Desokupa, and that, before the housing emergency situation sees Catalonia, and in concrete terms the city of Barcelona, the Department of Housing provides the thousand floors that correspond to it to the housing emergency table, corresponding to 60_percent of its participation in the consortium, because it is before a housing emergency problem that they are political. And, of course, you start the motion asking for a recognition and a grace to the body and security forces. And my question is what model of police is what we need to recognize and aggravate, the National Police and the Civil Guard that stunned defenseless and peaceful citizens on October 1, when we only wanted to vote? Is this really the model of police we need to recognize and thank? Or the police of the Mossos d'Esquadra who gives cover to « thugs like Desokupa? Is that the model they're setting up for us? Actually, we are asking for comprehensive answers before these problems and not facing...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.63.0	You're running out of time, Mr. Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.64.0	... one of us against another. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.65.0	He then has the word, also to defend statements, for the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units for Progress, the deputy Carles Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.66.0	Hello, good morning to everyone. Well, first of all, as in the past and as in the morning, Mr. Alonso, tell him that in Vic's subject matter we add ourselves to the homenage he has made to the victims, naturally, but tell him that yes, there was a public act to Vic as at least when they gave the twenty-five years of the time, with everyone there, for which thing... Yes, it must be rigorous. I understand you've done it with all the good faith of the world, huh? I understand that you have done so with all the good faith of the world. See, the young lady, in general, is a young woman about security issues, which I think is interesting to play. There are other questions that I think are barren and should not be barred in this case, especially social questions. And with our reviews, what we've been trying to do above all is to set up the table, let's say, connect it to the municipal world and security, which is sometimes the great oblivion of gatherings. At the first two points of recognition and thanksgiving to security forces and bodies and to all emergency services, we naturally add up. The point of 112, therefore, is a subject that has been discussed here repeatedly, in Parliament; there have been important approvals, and the Government is still not doing so. I don't seem to hardly repeat it. There are certain working conditions, there is a disregard for the workers and workers of 112, who do not even have the recognition that it is an emergencies service and, therefore, they are considered as any call center, as when tricks to ask the teleshop something; this is the consideration that they have these workers and workers for the Generality of Catalonia. And, therefore, welcome to put the theme back on the table. We don't agree with point 4, because... these social issues that we think are barren with security fears and that need not be done. Social services aren't a cop. And we don't understand very well, I don't understand very well what "potentially dangerous individuals" means in the streets, why do you define that? How is it determined? Clearly, for me a potentially dangerous individual, so he's just like a person who works for a bench and has a tie, and for you, he's just the opposite. We have to deal with these things. Point 5, local police... so, it's one of the challenges that the Socialist Group and Forward Units have, which takes into account local police in time to coordinate with the rest of the police and security forces. He's connected to point 13, this one. We will, in general, all vote in favour less on the 4th and the 9th. As for the requisitions and search and capture orders, naturally totally agree that all the information is gathered and that, when it is consulted, then, all the information pertaining to a person comes out. To the problems of the subway, we also agree that, together with the assemblies involved – we always want to insist on this – so the issue is working in a special way. With the subject of LGBT discrimination, therefore welcome, Ciutadans, in this camp, that what we hope is that it is not merely propaganda and that in this it is said the same outside the Parliament that between, that it is not only a speech of flags in a scene, but that we believe it to be true. Point 9 there will vote against it also because of what I told you about social issues. We believe that the attractive life... who has to, say, govern these issues are the social services and not the security. With point 10, point 11, totally agree. Naturally our public spaces must be free and respect everyone who has alien ideas; the only red line we have is that it must be intolerant with intolerance. And as for the 12th and 13th, we will also vote in favour. We think we've got a tough staffing problem all over Catalonia, Mr. Counselor, with the Mossos. We have also approved multiple motions for resolutions and parliamentary proposals calling for more movement in many municipalities, towns and cities in Catalonia. I think it's a widespread problem in all of Catalonia. We need to put the batteries down. And at the last point and 13, therefore, naturally, the local police, as I said, must take advantage of all the information they have by being the most in our streets and squares of the municipalities. Thank you... Therefore, we will vote in favour of all points, on the 4th and 9th, and ask for a separate vote from these two points. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.67.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of the deputy Antoni Castellà, for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.68.0	Thank you, Vice President. Honourable Councillor, Members, Members, the motion presented to us today by Mr Matías Alonso, let'mdir-l'hiai so, puzzled me a little, I don't know exactly what he is bringing. I said... and I didn't say it with bad faith, did I? I say from the point of view that we could divide it into three blocks, right? There is a first block in which there is a recognizance of all bodies and forces, let's say, cops, rural agents, bombers..., that obviously we are all agreed, to the chamber; despite this introduction, we speak basically of Mossos, coordination or only Mossos. All right, make a recon. But when we go in, I'll divide it into two blocks: there's a block in which he talks about projects and plans that, if I say so, they already exist– so, it's not a discrepancy as to whether it's right, if it's wrong, but they already exist –, and there's a last block in which he's talking about better in coordination or better in action– I'll talk about it now, later. When we talk about the projects and plans that you plan, the first is 112 and, therefore, set up a plan in which 112 is an integrated service. In fact, you need to know that in the framework of the new Emergencies Law it is precisely what is envisaged, beyond having parliamentary debate, that we are growing and having sensitivities – and it is the advice – of, with the new limitations and in the new law, studying precisely and according to the presuppositional availabilities which are the best at work; that there is a problem here, of course. But this exists in the brand of the new Emergence Law. They ask to present an integral plan for the coordination of social services. In fact, the strategic plan, the new strategic social service plan, will already focus on the coordination of social services in all cross-cutting areas of government. But, like other Members who preceded me in the paragraph, it's a little risky, it's not our model, to sweep social services safely. Social services don't do security. Set up a LGTBI protocol. Well, it was approved on October 17, 2007; it's the one we have. And anyway, you're willing to discuss whether it's better, if it's worse, but it's what we have. So, I don't want to propose it, because we have it. Or develop a protocol to assist and protect minor strangers not accompanied. We also have the instrument, and you know it: it's the Catalan Strategic of Consolidation, within the mark of the same law. Therefore, we discuss whether it is better or worse; but the instrument, no. It's the one that already exists. So, that's why I was perplexing him in this first part. And on the second side, we'll give support... to improve coordination? Yes, of course, always, of course; therefore, we will give you support at these points. But then there's a whole other set of points that – I let go of that, huh? – With the excuse of talking about better protocols, I believe that there is a critical evening to which is the purely management of the work of Mossos: when it comes to the occupation of "living," when it comes to organized crime, when it comes to the right to gather or not... I – let me 'hodir so' – with the excuse of improving protocols in the background is contradicted in the first block, and there is a criticism, I think, that you make more out of the chamber than this chamber, which is the work of the Police Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. That we..., from our parliamentary group and from the government, recognition is everything, to a work of great quality, of great efficiency, often with the resources that we have, limited, with a situation of presuppositional prorogation and that thanks to the efforts of each of the agents, therefore, this work is well done. [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]] Therefore – I finish here, Mr. Vice President – we will support those points that are obvious, from the bodies and from the coordination, and to the others not, because they are already being done, and this evening criticism. So he reminded me of a little, this young man, of something that always gave me my way: that when you get lunches and lunches and then you have one, everything that went before but doesn't work for nothing. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.69.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of Deputy Jordi Munell, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.70.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good morning. Well, first of all, let's get to the record for Vic's victims. In any case, we also regret that some political profit was involved, as it seemed. Here among us is Vic's deputy mayor, and she knows perfectly well that there are times when some public act and other moments that require more emotional, more intimate acts are to be manifested. I think that's what happened to Vic on the twenty-five anniversary, on the anniversary, and maybe there are times when these acts have to be more discreet and intimate, like it was yesterday. In any case, our recognition and record. Also, in this conjunction of the motion that Citizens proposed to us, in the first few points, yesterday the Councillor did so, and we, as a group that supports the Government, also did so: thanks and recognition, therefore, to the task that the Security and Emergencies do, above all because of the effort that they have had to make these years, in that, as the Councillor explained yesterday, the Councillor asked himself, even by decree, to do outside hours. And, therefore, this is an important effort but certainly in the areas of vocation and professionalism, so we have been able to spend a few years with this super-effort of excellent professionals that we have in our country. And, therefore, this recognition is not about and this grace is not about. The common companion said: "Home, do we even have to give thanks to those who stunned us? Well, I'm the one with the different situation. They're not people who live and work in Catalonia, they're people who came at some point, for October 1st, and so maybe they'd be with the other group, this group that Ciutadan's company calls "potentially dangerous individuals, huh? I'm sure they're serious here. [[Greetings.]] Well, at points 1 and 2, as we say, we will vote in favour of this recognition and thank you. In point 2, we will vote against it. In fact, as company Castellà also mentioned, there is a law of emergencies on the march and, therefore, will address all these issues that make reference to CAT112, also to the labor issues, which is point 3, in this sense. From point 4, it has also been done, there is also a strategic range of social services, and therefore we understand that social services must coordinate as planned, but they must not be civil security, also, as has already been said. Point 5 – police coordination – is also overtaken. There's a security board from Catalonia, set up for the Statute of Catalonia, but there's also a mixed security committee, created just September 2018 with the State, huh? , for all the issues, therefore, of security. There are also local safety assemblies, where coordination between national and local bodies is envisaged. And even there is the Commission of Police of Catalonia, we are dealing precisely with these issues of coordination of the different police units. Therefore, in this sense, in view of what is being done, we have made a request to continue working and not so purposely. Therefore, in this sense they have not accepted the message and therefore we will vote against it. In points 6 and 7 there was talk and transaction. Therefore, in this sense we will vote in favour of these two points, for which it does the subject, therefore, of the attestations or dispatchers closely and capture, and also for which it does the subject of security in public transport. Therefore, in this sense we agree. In the following points, so has Compañero Castellà – in fact, to the two groups that we support the government many times the reasoning is quite apparent, isn't it? – there is already a protocol that is approved, therefore, just since October 2017, for attention and prevention in all cases of the approach of homophobia, biphobia and transfer to Catalonia; therefore, in this sense, a decree that already exists. And besides, according to data from the Interior Department, it would also be good that..., with these motions sometimes it creates a certain warning of an increase in cases, when the data that give us from the Interior says that there is no increase that can be met in these themes, right? In the following point, there is also, as the company Castellà said, a 2010 law of 27 May, for which it does attention to childhood and adolescence, and, therefore, in the mark of this law they approach – and so does the department – the minor unaccompanied who can arrive. And finally, then, in the following points [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out]] – I was running out of time – I'm also making proposals for better fears that are already unfolding or that are already on the march, aren't they? They also make a specific element of the topic of the right of assembly and manifestation, a specific fan of universities. Of the universities, we remember that campuses and enclosures have a special application of the university fur; therefore, they are considered private spaces and therefore, in any case, any action that can be taken must go ahead, therefore, the authorization of the rector or well-previous, as there are some cases, to a specific agreement with the university. In fact, there's a 2012 agreement of the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia that provides and regulates police actions in campus cases, huh? And, therefore, in this sense we should take into account, therefore, this fact, right? And points 12 and 13, as we say... in the 12th, too, when it comes to better effect..., it also explained yesterday, in another intervention of the counselor: we were a few years in which we could not rest effect, we could only do so with the repositioning rate and, therefore, in this sense, the department...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.71.0	Ahabi, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.72.0	...with the 2016-2019 plan, you have enough planned, so, these 500 plus 750 squadron moves and these 250 more bombers. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.73.0	Next, to fix its position has the word, for the Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.74.0	Thank you. From the escó. Well, I guess they're talking to a potentially dangerous individual. [[Rialles.]] For us, potentially dangerous individuals are those who go with suitcases and ties, those who rob us armedly and on a large scale, with the tax fraud, with corruption, with prevarication, with embezzlement, with the scams that go unpunished in this system. We are taking advantage today to give all the support to students who have had to go to the provincial hearing to defend public education. This is unlawful coercion and rape, the unlawful coercion and rape of which her young lady speaks. You speak to us of minor strangers without adult references, of the crime on the subway, of the 'top manta', of the occupations, but you do not speak to us of the causes that cause these situations, of a society that is divided for the poor, of the poor wage earner, of the situation of working women in this country. That's what we need to address if we're going to make a good policy of security. When we see that you are talking about flagrant, violent occupations, what we see when we go down the street and when we walk through the barrels with our veins they are willing to drive us out of our barrels, they are « thugs like Desokupa, that yesterday they entered a building forcing the veins, which yesterday they were negotiating between the Mossos d'Esquadra and the ownership with these « thugs before. That's neither agreed nor nothing. This is a system that does what it does to protect the thugs, to protect the faces before the dignity of the veins that are organized so that they do not expel us from our barrels. Because people know what it's like to get there at the end of the month, and you certainly don't, but there are a lot of people who can't afford to pay for the logger, with a bunch of abusers of real estate candy, to which all the parliamentary groups in this chamber have contributed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.75.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, for the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word MP Esperança García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.76.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention were not recorded.]] ...it's safe and not unoccupied, as it looks like some group is near it. We, in the first place, do want to pay tribute to the victims of Vic's terrorist storm, of course, as it should not be in any other way. Two, give support to this young man. We believe that it is necessary, because the latest increase in criminality taxes so advises, especially in the city of Barcelona, where the tax has dissipated completely. We applaud all the measures that this young man has and we will practically approve them and gather them all, all of which refer to coordination between police units, to the rearrangement of the different agents deployed for the territory. What happens is that we have our doubts that this is true and that it is very effective in the best of this security in our streets, among other things, because there are many problems that are completely timed. First, the problems of the lack of effectiveness and the territorial redistribution of agents throughout the territory, which have caused there to be venous patrols in certain areas of Catalonia that fight against thefts at home, right? In the second term, we also have the chronification of the continuous thefts from the Barcelona metro, which, despite the fact that there are these groups of individuals who are volunteers and who make angels of the metro, therefore, serve to adjust and give more security to the metro user, whether or not visitors from the city, and that they pose us more dangerously the good tourist data that we have in Barcelona, because even the guides of tourists give us this as an essential alarm for all tourists visiting the city. I think we need to reflect. The key is not a motion – we will approve it and gather it –, it is to adapt the new situation that we have, social, of new forms of crime, and even of new skills that we have in Catalonia since the last approval of the last law that you have to see with police bodies. The last law that was passed was before the Statute and referred to the police school; or so, it did not refer to the new skills of the police bodies, nor to anything that was assembled there. Counselor..., it's a_me, Mr. Buch, you announced that you'd be bringing a law here on the police, and you didn't, and we're late. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Or we'll approve of this young man, but we have to keep working...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.77.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.78.0	...don't think about the election time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.79.0	Thank you. To pronounce himself finally on the papers, has the new word the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.80.0	Thank you, President. First of all, regret that..., the record of the victims of an atempt, so, generate this mina de picabaralla, right? I have to say that, on May 29, 1991, which was the day that produced this tempt, I was a Segovia vehi, but that day I was one more vigatà. And I have to say that, many times, too often – not just in this case, huh? , in many cases – there is no institutional response. It wasn't there yesterday, was it? Well..., respects May 29, 2016, twenty-five birthdays, I was there, I was there, as I have been on many other occasions also honoring Vic's not only victims, but other rights in Catalonia and Spain, unfortunately, because we have many victims. But, in any case, it respects more police, Mossos d'Esquadra, for Barcelona, what we ask is that..., within the youth..., is that the councillor, therefore, makes a study of the possible relocation or redistribution of effect. We already know they're not there, as a matter of fact. That's very clear, isn't it? Regarding the LGTBI collection, I have to tell you that the Parliamentary Group of Citizens and Citizens Party of Citizenship in this question, as in others, carries something more than a flag. Therefore, what we are asking for in this case is that there is a clear development also of a sanctioning regime, which is what is missing. I'm critical of the police task force, not one. We must say that, despite the resources at their disposal, we are more than satisfied with the work of all the police, all the bodies and security forces that develop their task in Catalonia. And, therefore, no criticism in this sense. With respect to campus, I'm just saying it's not campuses... [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] There's an agreement that there's no room for impunity.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.81.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.82.0	We have accepted various papers from all groups, two of them have been traded, and I hope that this Parliament, therefore, will gather the House. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.83.0	Thank you, Congressman. I called for a vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mrs. Erra, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.84.0	As a matter of contradiction, could you talk about... what are they talking about so much Vic?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.85.0	Say, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.86.0	Agraria – and like the mayor and with the institutional responses – that first they know the territory, they know the city, they know all their idiosyncrasy, so they can put themselves in the mouth, so there are no institutional responses. The city will suffer a heavy attack, and the city will respond to the calibre. I'd appreciate it if you didn't put the name Vic in your mouth any more. Thank you. [[Greetings. Matías Alonso Ruiz asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.87.0	Mr. Alonso? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thirty seconds, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.88.0	What I would ask of Vic's mayor is that I talk to the victims. I spoke to him yesterday. And the victims, once more, were alone at the beautiful mig of Vic's cemetery. This is the reality of yesterday. [[Greetings. Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.89.0	Yes, Mrs. Caula?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.90.0	To ask for a separate ballot from a block. Points 1, 2, 6 and 7, which could be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.91.0	1, 2, 6 and 7? All right. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, ma'am Sirvent?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.92.0	The 1, the 2, the 3, the 8..., and we can vote together on the 3 and the 8, and the 1 and the 2. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.93.0	Mrs. Granados, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.94.0	Yes; he voted separately on 4th and 9th. [[Marta Ribas Frías asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.95.0	Say...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.96.0	To ask for all the points separately, please. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.97.0	All right, so, we'll vote for all the points separately. I should like to thank you, in any case, for following the first intervention, that of Mrs Ribas. [[Strong laughs.]] In any case, we will vote each point separately from this motion; each of the thirteen points, if I don't make a mistake. Let's start with point number one. The vote begins. The first point of this motion was approved by 117 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. Point 2 was approved by 123 votes in favour, against, 3 abstentions and one Member present who did not vote. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. Point 3 was approved by 65 votes to 62, with no abstentions. And now we're voting point number four. The vote begins. The fourth point was rejected by 39 votes to 88, with no abstentions. Let's now vote point number five. The vote begins. The five points were rejected by 62 votes in favour, 65 against and no abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. The sixth point of this motion was approved by 124 votes to three, with no abstentions. And we're voting now on the set. The vote begins. Point 7 was approved by 117 votes to three, with seven abstentions. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. The eighth point was approved by 65 votes to 62, with no abstentions. We're voting for the new point now. The vote begins. The new point was rejected by 39 votes to 88, with no abstentions. And we're voting now for the point you want. The vote begins. The point is rejected by 55 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the one-off. The vote begins. The vote was rejected by 55 votes to 72, with no abstentions. And now we're going to vote for the dot. The vote begins. The dotzè point was rejected by 55 votes in favour, 65 against and 7 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the tretze point and get past this young man. The vote begins. The vote was rejected by 62 votes to 65, with no abstentions. There are no more points in this young man. [[Motion subsequent to the inquiry on the situation of the special work centres]] [[302-0003/12]] So let's get to the point of the order of the day, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the situation of the special work centres, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose it, has the word the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.98.0	Thank you, President. Gentlemen, Members of Parliament... [[Widow's remorse.]] Counselor, in this motion following the inquiry that we did fifteen days ago on the situation of the special work centres in Catalonia we wanted to make a rest, a retreat of those petitions, of those who, from our point of view, have the special work centres in Catalonia..., the situation so critical for which they are passing. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.99.0	One moment, congressman, one moment, please. [[Pause.]] Go on, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.100.0	So, let's get out of here, let's summarise what the contents of this young man are. In the first place, we urge the Government to allocate, as a minimum, 100_million euros from the funds of the Sectoral Conference of Work. In fact, in the previous inquiry we have already made this call, because we can pay, from these funds, the needs of the payments that the special work centres had. The answer, on behalf of the Council, was that until there was a meeting of the sectoral conference, it could not be done. And the debt has already been paid for the months of disembarkation, generation and fever. Therefore, what we say, and what we say at those times, is that, with the communication that the government has of the sectoral conference, of the 356_million euros that they have already recorded the month of February, can advance the payments, as has been done other years, and as do the local administrations also in relation to the payments that they have pending with the Generality. And with these 100_millions, what we want to ensure is that all people with physical disabilities have 50_percent of the minimum interprofessional salary subsidized. This does not happen in Catalonia; people with physical disabilities do not have 50_percent of the minimum wage subsidized. And also 55_percent of the minimum interprofessional salary subsidized to those people with special difficulties. So what we're doing is paying for it. To pay, plus, at the end of one month, the outstanding debts. But also to schedule all the payment orders that have to come in the own months and also until the end, until middays of the year 2020. We want the government to pay on sixty days; it can do so. I can do that, and I think that's what it would do to the special work centers. In the case of the year 2019 of enguany, we want the orders published in October. We want, therefore, to be stabilized and we want certain in an area that was manifested the month of fever; that was manifested last week, with six thousand people in the street, with three thousand people, only seven days ago, before the council. We want – and it has already been approved in this Parliament – for the government to set aside a fund of 30_million euros for the possible delays that the government itself may cause in paying these subsidies for the next year. We're asking for transparency, we want to know where the sector conference money is going to stop. We want to know how to secure the minimum interprofessional salary that they have recognized for the law... ; and that the foundations of the sectoral conference arrive to cover this need and this right recognized to the law. We want it to be dialogue with the whole sector – with the whole sector – in order to recover, in addition, the investment; the investment in the balance to finance, in the management support, in the creation of work places for special work centres. As well as increasing tariffs, and that once and for all it began to talk about the new model of protected work in Catalonia, and, here yes, with this new model, if the Government and the entities, after a participatory process, consider that the subsidy to the minimum interprofessional wage can be increased, so what is done, and as long as it is paid..., if it is a Catalan model, that is paid from the funds of the Generality of Catalonia. And, of course, we also have pending assignments, or pending themes, such as the job placement in the ordinary enterprise of people with disabilities, if we really want to ensure that these people are included in our sector. Therefore, what we set up, what we want is our criteria; we criteria that we have done with the collaboration, with the contributions of almost all the parliamentary groups of this chamber, but also with the contributions that the most representative entities of the sector have made to us, with which we have not talked much, and I can assure them that this young man in any case will reduce all these needs. And, therefore – after I speak, of the papers presented – I expect a unanimous vote of approval of this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.101.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is now the turn of Mrs Marta Ribas to defend the papers presented.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.102.0	Thank you, President. The truth is that I assume that all parliamentary groups, I imagine, have been in these past few months meeting with this sector. There has been a sector that usually does not emerge in the street and that, in change, has encountered a critical situation until the point of mobilization on more than one occasion. The increase in the interprofessional minimum wage, which is good news, but without the resources planned, external, in order to compensate for the increase in this sector, has made them burst. But that was the gout that made the vas. This gout was really full because the situation was already very critical, because of the payment of invoices by the Government of the Generality; because this happened over two years of retailing and freezing of tariffs, which means retailing or freezing of the amount of people working in the special work centres and the people who are in the care, who are attending to them in these special work centres, and because these retailing have also been in subsidies that have been absolutely minority, in the case of the themes of better or structural business themes, of the entities that manage these TSEs. And in these years the reality has been, moreover, to be faced with us: to the premature aging of people working at CETs, to a labor market more close to the insertion of these collections, to a need to review the model a thousand times promised during these years but never approached... All folded, in the words of the sector, has led them to the limit and risk of inviability. In the face of that, what they're complaining about is that we're doing politics. And I'm the one who claims them both to the promoter group of this movement like the government is that they do politics. We're talking about the Socialist Group and we're talking about the Republican Left. It is in your hands that you seek the government of this solution, or the solution... to govern the solution to this situation, from the Government of Spain to the Government of the Generality. To do politics is to provide solutions, to do politics is not to increase problems, to do politics is to dialogue and is to negotiate from these two governments instead of blaming each other, which is what we saw in the inquiry fifteen days ago about this situation. Government, each other, because while you're arguing with each other who's still paying the duck is the weakest, and in this case it's people with disabilities who work in special work centres and are the entities that run these special work centres. For our part, doing politics, as the opposition group in this Parliament, has been contributing better and new contributions to this movement from the petitions and demands of this sector that have brought us to the multiple meetings that we have had in the past months, that have brought all citizens with their demands to the streets and that have brought us these last days to parliamentary groups with written contributions. We are asked above all to increase resources, stabilize funding and change to move forward. In this sense, I highlight three of the points that we have made as a parliamentary group to the motion, that is: that the Government pays in time..., that I complete the law, go, and pay at sixty days, maximum; that there is multiannual planning of financing and perspective of changing the model of concertation, so that this finance facility that the sector demands, and demand the modification of the criteria of distribution of resources for the CETs that is made from the State, that is corresponding with the reality of how many workers there are in this sector in each of the communities. Change to move forward. There are more exams. In addition, it seems to me that the discussions presented by other parliamentary groups are also very interesting. I think the show really got richer with the transactions that it got to. We hope that with this young man we will work together to end this frozen decade, which is the one that has experienced the disability sector and especially, in this case we are talking about today, the special work centres. Now, however, it remains in the hands of the governments. They're back to urge, socialists, Republican Left: governments.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.103.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs.Victoria Navarro has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.104.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the value and commitment of the entities that show up each year to claim what belongs to them and the Government of Torra systematically denies them. And I say: "Does it take year by year to fill the streets to give them what is theirs? This matter is important enough to propose urgent and silent measures, so we must also regret the opportunism of the PSC, which presents a motion that is not up to the response that these entities need. Firstly, it is noted that they are now in the Government of Spain. When they were in the opposition, in the last legislature, they submitted a motion calling for 75_per_cent of the interprofessional minimum wage for the special hardship group, and now they have cut the petition to just 55_per_cent and they have not accepted the amendment, as if the situation in which these people are found was not of maximum vulnerability, as if the situation in which these people are found was not different from that before the crisis, because the funding in these centers has been frozen for ten years; ten years are the frozen wages, when the cost of living has increased by 17_per_cent, as if these people did not have to endure the 21_per_cent increase in the MSI that they approved electorally and that in their case cannot compensate for the increase in productivity. Because between them it is a great irresponsibility not to support the workplaces that occupy these people. Yesterday we still had to listen to Councilman El Homrani praising the goodness of our success model. But they don't listen to the street? Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ensure that the jobs of these families are maintained, that they are abandoned and that they work so hard not to increase the health and social costs of families if these people are unoccupied, because what can be more important than meeting the needs of the most vulnerable people? In July 2018 Citizens proposed the creation of a commission to specifically monitor policies for people with disabilities. The government parties voted against and the PSC abstained – today presents this motion. And it is clear that for the Government of Torra the lack of protection of persons with disabilities is not a problem, since they voted against it. And it is also clear that for the PSC it is not either, because it abstained, because at that time they were more concerned about fixing the motion of censure for Sánchez to take the chair of the Moncloa than for the real needs of the people. And between them, they have used persons with disabilities as a currency of exchange. And this is the government of waiting lists. So far in Parliament there is a tremendous waiting list to discuss the motions for resolutions in the Committee on Social Affairs. At the moment we have up to fifty and nine motions for resolutions, of which forty and eight have all the parliamentary procedure completed and are simply waiting to be seen in committee. The oldest is pending since June 28, 2018, almost a year ago. A quarter of all these are related to the needs of persons with disabilities, and half are related to special work centres and job placement. And among all the committees there are up to twenty-two motions for resolutions directly related to disability. But no, we didn't have to set up a commission to set up a follow-up committee on disability policies, did we? They have not even set up the working group that they promised the entities as an excuse to vote against the establishment of the commission. But the real serious problem is not how parliamentary activity builds up because of cowardice, no; the important problem is the gravity of the situation that Catalans who suffer from some kind of disability and are neglected by this government. Because we are talking about more than ten thousand jobs at risk and we are talking about the care of more than forty thousand people with disabilities and special difficulties. This is the true size of the tragedy. Open your eyes; do not ignore with your votes against the needs of this group: the need to create a specific commission to deal with these policies is real and the need to ensure the financing of special work centres and to ensure that at least all current places are maintained, too. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.105.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is now the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.106.0	From the escó, president. First, finance. Today... in fact, always, all groups, as it cannot be in any other way, show empathy, solidarity, with people with functional diversity. But that, if we don't translate it with a reality of resources, they're totally empty words, and so we think about the need for funding. Second question: we also need planning and organization. It speaks in a way expressed in the present motion of a new model, a new model that must also be protected. We make one of the points to make it possible to see that a model is possible where the ordinary enterprise is combined..., and, therefore, intervention to the ordinary enterprise in relation to persons with functional diversity – we do not think that we should abandon the proposals related to the ordinary enterprise– ; that we strengthen the special centres, and, thirdly, also a proposal that is going forward in that it could be a public enterprise where the answer has also been given. Why do we also plant the power to move forward in a public enterprise that has given a response? Because we never believe that the work that can develop people with functional diversity will have to be entirely under the pure rules of the market or the reality of the market, so that we do not play with the same realities, and therefore we have to build a model that has this triple expression. And third place, dial. It can't be that this week there's a transfer that's not 100_per_cent in relation to the support team, and that's happened, that's not 100_per_cent that matches, and today the companies, special centers, and entities, or some entity, still don't have any knowledge of why this has been there. And, therefore, we also make a call to the government because it is reinforced with entities and reinforced with the special centres the dialog. That said, I would also point out that we will vote absolutely in favour, that is to say, yes, at the same time as the points of the present motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.107.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group is now the return of the deputy Najat Driuech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.108.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning. Before I begin, I would also like to recall that there have actually been claims for what it does to the sector. And do you know what they said? So let them trust that the council can solve it. Trust the council because it is an honest interlocutor who aims to bring solutions in the measure of his abilities; more honest than the motions they claim to confuse, from the PSC, where much is asked of the Generalitat but always avoids demanding to the State the responsibilities it has at the time to guarantee these solutions. Entering the seat, as we have said, Deputy Moreno, demands some things from the Government of the Generality, but I believe that in many of the points of the seat you avoid being equally demanding with the State. Like a parliamentary group, all the items we have put forward in this motion were to correct this asymmetry and to match who has the most skills in this case, which is the Government of the State. You ask the Generality to contribute 100_million euros from the Sectoral Conference of Work, referring to 50_percent of the minimum interprofessional wage. And I'm telling you, the pledge is at this time of 50 million euros, but what about the other side? Is the government's share of the state left? It's always unfulfilled with its own legislation, and that, Mr. Moreno, is very disloyal to the workers with disabilities in Catalonia. Often they forget that the 100_millions of euros are throughout the State and that they are not equally distributed territorially, because they do not know what real percentage of disabled workers we have: I would only get 16_percent of the population; but I remind you that we have more than 20_percent of all the State. It is not said by a Member of the Republican Left or the Generality, but it is also claimed by the third sector. Dincat, without going any further, calls on the Government of the State to increase resources for the special work centres that are destined for Catalonia. And it's not about looking at another gang or looking for excuses, because, when you complain to us about what you're about to do to the generality, we pose. This is why we agree when they claim to make the payment of grants for the years 2018 and 2019. In fact, the government has already paid, there is no paying pending. Mass is often more than close to us. I see if that's how Catalonia is the only autonomous community that already provides pro-funds and brings 42.5 million to ensure that subsidies are collected at special work centres, that workers' rights are secured and that workers' rights are avoided, and that special work centres' treasuries are avoided. That's one more example of what we have. We also have a dialogue and there is a desire to have a dialogue between the Government and the entities in order to solve the problems of the consultancy, a dialogue that was continued thanks to which he presented, together with the companies of Juntes for Catalonia, a resolution proposal that gave a view to the claims of the entities, a dialogue like that which also exists on the financing rates of the care services. The consultancy has the commitment that workers and workers of special work centres who meet the requirements can join the ordinary companies, and for this reason it is planned to allocate 123_million euros to different insertion programs. I am sure that Councillor El Homrani will take with great pleasure the reptes that are close to him, as he is already doing. I can also ask the PSOE government to take theirs. Unfortunately, we are too accustomed to the double game of the PSOE. We find when here they criticize the minor migrants who sleep in the police station but they have their mayors who generate by the difference between their citizenship, as in the case of Rubí. We find it when they don't stop talking about dialogue, but they lead the suspension of the President of the Republican Left, Catalonia's most voted senator and the rest of the political prisoners and prisoners. In all these cases, they are asked the same: more honesty, more collaboration and, above all, less cynicism. It requires with the Generality, of course, but also with the State, that it is the one who has the skills while we cannot hold them. And finally, to emphasize that the Generality cannot approve things that cannot be completed. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.109.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Congresswoman Saloua Laouaji.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.110.0	Hello, good morning. Members, Members, Councillors, workers, workers and guests, first of all, I begin by denouncing the arbitrary suspensions and the discriminatory practice of prohibiting entry to President Puigdemont and to the Member Comin to the European Parliament in order to make the process as a Member of the House of Rights and as a Member of the European Parliament. [[Greetings.]] And, in relation to the motion following the Government's inquiry into the situation of the special work centres, the position of my group, Junts per Catalunya, is articulated in the following way. I'm beginning to insist on the fact that people with disabilities are a very large collection. However, few years have passed since they were abused, neglected, humiliated, invisible and discriminated against. Many are the efforts that have been made and that are still being made today to be treated as equals. And his will is not to be integrated, but to receive the same attention as the rest of the people, always respecting both his limitations and his abilities. In particular, it should be emphasized that the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities stresses, in Article 27, that the maximum inclusion of persons with disabilities in the ordinary labour market must be promoted, a mandate which the European Union has assumed in its strategy for the employment of persons with disabilities by 2020. In relation to the special work centres, we remember that they were born with the objective of providing workers and workers with a major disability of 33_per_cent the realization of a productive and paid work, suited to their personal characteristics and, this is important, that facilitates the integration of work into the ordinary work market. But this model has also suffered the effects of the economic crisis and the hardships of 155. The system of benefits and subsidies to disabled people must be able to correlate coherently and logically with their rights as a person and as a worker. And this does not happen to our country at present and makes it very difficult for people with disabilities, perfectly prepared, to go to the labour market; a contradiction that we do not have to allow in a society to benefit like ours. And, unfortunately, it must be remembered that we cannot pay for the proper imports at the time it comes to respect the CETs and in relation to many other areas, especially those that also affect other collections in a vulnerable situation. But it's not that they don't pay, it's that they can't. Because the Spanish relationship system doesn't work, it's unsustainable. Our resources, which among others could be used to help, to give, to be sure, to the CETs and to many other things, go ahead, but they only come back to us, when they seem and often, and so on, for what they seem. In his previous question, Deputy Raúl Moreno told us that we want Madrid to pay. So yes, and as long as yes. It is that, unfortunately, for now it has to be this way, it has to pay Madrid. Pay whatever you want to subsidize the 50_per_cent of the SMI, to all workers of the CETs, 55_per_cent or even 75_per_cent of those who have special difficulty. That I am pleased with the imports and the terms because they can set themselves calendars, because there can be certain and stabilized, because they can not only keep the plants, but can be increased, above all. Pay what is necessary to guarantee the rights of workers and workers and to avoid the stress of overtime they suffer, because we want to make the payment of subsidies pending as soon as possible. Pay what you're looking for so you can recover the grants for the creations of balance finance, management support, adaptation to the work place of the CETs. The SMI increase has added to a chronic underfunding of entities that are very important integration instruments. The state government should have planned measures, and it didn't. It should have accompanied the increase in the budget that is transferred to subsidize these centres when they were playing. And before all this means that the Government of the Generality is firmly committed to persons with disabilities and their families, including their families, with equal opportunities and with the entities that support them. There's been talk about the model. And with regard to the model, I think we're [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] ...we're in a moment of stalemate...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.111.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.112.0	...and, while the model of inclusive takes strength, no one knows how it could be effectively implemented in a company as competitive as ours, without leaving behind those people who...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.113.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.114.0	...with more difficulties, they must be on equal terms.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.115.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.116.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.117.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to fix his word, is the return of the deputy Santi Rodríguez, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.118.0	Thank you, President. Primary care, firefighters, movers, masters, today special work centers, from here to a station social workers of the Generalitat..., they are not random, they are not things that at a certain time fail. No, it's a way of working for a government that has decided that it doesn't want to have assumptions – it hasn't approved, the same government, the assumptions –, that it has decided that priorities are one another and that, in any case, when the problems are on, then we look at them to try to reshape them. Special work centres, exactly one case that seems to be: they accumulate, as in many other areas of the Government of the Generality, the problems over the years, and it is obvious that there have been difficult, hard years, in which, therefore, they have had to adopt shortcuts so that there are not enough resources to meet all the needs; but at the moment when there has been economic recovery, at the moment when there has been recovery of inputs, it is time to try to grasp this situation. And in this task the Government of the Generalitat has not applied. And he didn't have an interest in applying there, because if he did, like he did, the least interest, like he approved, the same government, the assumptions. Another thing is, then, its parliamentary processing, but it's that we haven't had a chance or a chance. And, therefore, the problems in the special work centres accumulate again a year ago. And that's why in this young man there's some point in talking about how long and how many years ago he's been losing, how long he's been missing. And before all this we have another problem, that is the Government of Spain, which decides unilaterally, without predicting 'in the consequences, the increase of the minimum interprofessional wage, applauds absolutely for everyone but without taking into account the consequences that this could have if not done well and with a good forecast. And the special work centres are a clear example of the consequences of the unilateral rise in the interprofessional minimum wage. Obviously, all these people and all these centers are left with a gap between the wages that workers perceive with functional diversity and the subsidies they receive. Obviously, this needs to be corrected, and this needs to be corrected through grants. [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]] But then there's the second part, which is the gap between productivity...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.119.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.120.0	...and the one who was the wages. Therefore, we will give support to this young man, because we understand that between us there is to be a cure and a solution, in this problem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.121.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, to pronounce on the papers, it is the return of Mr Raúl Moreno's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.122.0	Thank you, President. Very quickly. "Deu years of oblivion isn't the SMI, huh? "Deu years of oblivion, which is the entity's campaign, is not the fault of the Sánchez government; perhaps there is something else that you do not forget when you make these complaints. To Mrs. Saloua, from Junts to Catalonia, I can't say anything, among other things because she didn't propose anything. You say: "No matter what they don't pay, they can't pay. And then they just said they've already paid. Clear up. The money of the sectoral conference allows you to pay from the month of February, as was shown the next day of the inquiry in this Parliament, which you paid. So the money is there. Other transfers will arrive to pay 55 percent, which is an advance on just what the entities claimed. Before that was 50 percent. I insist: in Catalonia, you are not paying 50 percent of people with physical disabilities, you are not paying! They're violating their rights, like coming here to give lessons that 75 percent is to be paid to the rest! Mrs Najat, you ask the State for things that you yourself have explained. You're taking responsibility. And it's a lot to read – a lot to read – the reference you made to the mayor of Rubí. With these comments, first, we agreed that we signed the political parties in this chamber, and you contribute to the stigmatization of the minor companions, who have nothing to do with this young man. So we're not doing well. If they want other criteria they agree the criteria with the autonomous communities, which is the work to be done by the Government of the Generality. And Mrs. Blanca, I'm sorry, it's that I don't think they have much idea what the subject is, they don't have any idea, because it's not that we're going from 75 to 55, no, if the young man reads, he's saying, "If it's 75 – as the young man says – he's going to have to pay for it." The Government of Spain has moved from 50 to 55 per cent, which you didn't even set up when the assumptions were agreed with the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.123.0	Well, we called for a vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.124.0	Request separate vote from point 8.4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.125.0	Yes, before asking them if there are more separate votes, comment on them that agree with Rule 95 of the Rules and for a sudden indisposition, and thus granted it to the Bureau a moment ago, deputy Gemma Espigares Tribó has delegated her vote to the deputy Sergi Sabrià, president of the Parliamentary Group Republicà. Now, if there were more separate voting petitions... 8.4, said Mr. Rodriguez. Any more? Yes, Mrs. Caula...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.126.0	I'll plant blocks for you, see if you'll make up your mind. One block would be the number 6, 7, 9, 10 and 11. The other block would be 2, 4, 5, 8.4, 8.5, 12 and 12 bis, probably 8.4 would have to be pulled. And the third block is number 1, 3, 8, 8.1, 8.2, 8.3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.127.0	All right, so we'll vote on these three blocks and point 8.4. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Pujol...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.128.0	Yeah, now. Anava proposed that, in the way of Mrs Ribas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.129.0	All points are voted separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.130.0	...all points separately, which seems to me to be the most practical and the most opportune in this case.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.131.0	All right. I understand that, therefore, they are points and subpoints, because a subpoint has been requested. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Also... all the subpoints too? [[Pause.]] Yeah? All right, so we'll vote for it point by point. Let's start with point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 66 votes in favour, 50 against, no abstentions and 6 Members or Members present who have not voted. They see that there is a vote; it is that of the delegation of the Ms Gemma Espigares, that they have not been able to put it to the application and, therefore, I will verbalize it. We're still voting point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved unanimously, i.e. 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're voting point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 65 votes to 62, with no abstentions. And now we're going to vote number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved unanimously, 127 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. Let's now vote point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved unanimously, 127 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number six. The vote begins. The sixth point was approved by 65 votes in favour, against and 62 abstentions. And now we're going to vote number seven. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved by 65 votes in favour, against and 62 abstentions. And now we're going to vote number eight. The vote begins. This point was approved by 66 votes to 60, with no abstentions. And we're voting now on point 8.1. The vote begins. Point 8.1_has been approved... [[Someone said: "8.2 President.]] No, no. [[Pause.]] We'll go back to voting, 'cause it looks like there was a mix-up if you said 8.2 or 8.1 before you voted, huh? So, we'll go back to voting and vote point 8.1. The vote begins. Point 8.1_has been approved by 64 votes to 62, with no abstentions. We are now voting on point 8.2 – 8.2. The vote begins. Point 8.2_has been approved by 65 votes to 62, with no abstentions. And now we're going to vote on point 8.3. The vote begins. Point 8.3_has been approved by 66 votes to 61, with no abstentions. And we're voting now on point 8.4. The vote begins. Point 8.4_has been approved by 122 votes in favour, against, 3 abstentions and two Members or Members present who have not voted. And now we're going to vote on point 8.5. The vote begins. Point 8.5_has been approved unanimously, i.e. 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're voting point number nine. The vote begins. The new item was approved by 65 votes in favour, against and 62 abstentions. And now we're voting point 10. The vote begins. Point 10_has been approved by 65 votes to 62. And now we're going to vote point number 11. The vote begins. Point 11_has been approved by 65 votes to 62. And now we're voting point 12. The vote begins. Point 12_has been approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we finally vote on the 12a– 12a point. The vote begins. Point 12a was approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into job insecurity]] [[302-0108/12]] There are no more places to vote on this young man and, therefore, let's move to the next one. [[Widow's remorse.]] To the Ministry following the question to the Government on precariousness [[some applause]] work, presented for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú Puem. Mrs Yolanda López has the word to expose it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.132.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, all of you. [[Widow's remorse.]] Before...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.133.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.134.0	First of all, a greeting to the social workers of the Generalitat who have come, because there is a point of the motion that affects them, and to representatives of the promoters of guaranteed income who have also come, and to tothom. First of all, I would also like to thank the parliamentary groups that have submitted the reports to this motion, especially the Members of the CUP and the Citizens' Group, for their very constructive proposals; in any case, I will talk about this in the next speech on their position. In the last plenary we highlight the alarming situation of precariousness that we are suffering throughout the State and also in Catalonia. We said it the other day, in Catalonia there are already about 400,000 people with jobs who are at risk of poverty. Our people are having more and more trouble getting to the end of the month and the numbers keep growing. We are looking at how the gentlemen and the ladies of the Government... – let them say what they say in this rostrum – the reality is that nothing is being done about it. The other day we also highlighted one of the great dramas of job insecurity, and it is that job insecurity kills. Occupational accidents do not stop growing in Catalonia; unfortunately last weekend a rider of the company Glovo died hit. These workers complain about the precarious situation of their working conditions and we cannot accept that these types of companies clean their hands by saying that they will cover the expenses that would have been covered by private insurance. This is not the idea, the idea is not that the companies with their alms take charge of the death of a worker; the idea is that the workers have decent working conditions; the idea is that the Government of the Generalitat will ensure that these companies protect the workers from the first moment. That is why today our Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Pomão has brought a motion to urge the Government to get to work. Because it is true that our great battle and our greatest need is to repeal the 2010 and 2012 labour reforms, and that is why we have put forward a point on this, and I take the opportunity to say to the PSC colleagues that they press the government, when the government is formed, to repeal, please, these labour reforms. But, as has already been highlighted in other respects, we can work on other issues related to the subject from our regulatory and competitive framework. And that is why this motion that we are presenting today also has effective measures and tools to alleviate the situation. Many of these proposals and measures have already been tabled in this Parliament in the last parliamentary term and were mostly adopted, but have never been put into effect. Given the worsening situation of precarious work and labour rights, we understand that it is more than necessary to reposition the issue, to reposition these measures and to add other very important aspects, such as the latent need to work for the expansion of jobs of labour inspectors; to recover agreements in the field of occupational disaster and to ensure their fulfilment; to put in place the mechanisms for Catalonia to be the driving force behind the repeal of labour reforms, which harm us so much; to secure the business and industrial fabric of our territory in order to maintain jobs, avoiding the closure and relocation of companies; to bet on the job dignity of workers; to work within the framework of employment, paying special attention to the gender perspective. The motion is very important to require the Government to comply with the agreements on guaranteed income, because it cannot be that we have had the capacity to build a truly valuable instrument to rescue people from precariousness and to guarantee a decent minimum of living and that, today, we must continue to regret the mismanagement of the Government, which is making guaranteed income: to exclude, deter, deny the benefit to persons entitled to receive it is a shameful practice, even, I would say that it is unworthy. Lack of regulation, denial of records or lack of management staff are urgent problems that must be addressed without further excuse. I'm not saying it, it's reported by the promoters. But its solution is to ask a third party, no more or less than Deloitte, to fix the lack of diligence and, curiously, this consultant, Deloitte, is to whom the National Court has just confirmed a fine of EUR 1 million for serious infringement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.135.0	Congresswoman, thank you. [[Greetings.]] On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, and to defend the papers presented, has the words of Mrs Eva Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.136.0	Thank you, President. This is a motion that we thank the Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, a motion that demonstrates the paralysis and inopérance of the Department of Labour, of the Government of the Generalitat, a department that sees the labour market changing, as every time there is more precariousness in the world of work, which is being mismanaged by the Government, both on the part of the private labour market, but also of the Public Employment Service – the SOC – and also of active employment policies. A young man who also, as we add to the points made by the different parliamentary groups..., who speaks of the Generalitat also, of the different departments as employer, as contractors and, therefore, that also evidence that we are not only talking about the labour market at private level, but that the labour market that lies within the Generalitat sector is also exhibiting difficult situations of precariousness, as also evidenced by the presence of certain collections here. Mirin, there have been changes in the labour market, the economy, the platform economy, displacements, digitalization, poor work... In Catalonia there are not only 400,000 people who are up to date, but there are only 400,000 who are working and who are poor; there has been an increase in inequalities. All this has happened while the governments of the Generality, devoting their energies completely to the independence process, therefore, have let us not do what we have to do in the labor market. And so, today, the motion speaks of industry, public service, welfare, education, universities; the scope of this motion has been increased, and the one we are claiming, as the proposed group also claims, is a decent occupation and wages that are not precarious either. There's been a lot of talk, I just want to say a few things. We made a note of the inspection's girlish theme, which they were accepted, had to talk about the real and competitive brand and, therefore, we are grateful that it was accepted by us. And also..., and we are pleased that the proposer has reached agreement, in this case, with the Government, to preserve the principle of autonomy of the parties, because the original wording of the motion I believe would not have been well seen either by the employer or by the unions. The government can't put it where it doesn't touch it and, therefore, it's the Labour Relations Council, it's the Labour Court of Catalonia and it's in the AIC where these kinds of questions have to be made. We also accepted a statement that spoke of precariousness in the field of professional practices, which we appreciate. I, then, left-handedness at work. It continues to increase the labor left-handedness, the government has to pose. He managed it from the guaranteed income of the citizenry, I believe it is the great fiasco of the Government, in this case, of the councillor Chakir El Homrani. We need to check the denials. There's a concentration called for the hard failure and we expect you to react, the counselor. For what it does to labour reform, they have accepted proposals from the CUP Group. We have to say: the labour reform of 2012 and the collaterals ended with the 2010 reform, in fact, nothing remains of the 2010 reform. And, for our part, you know, the proposal of the Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez is the elaboration of a new Staff of Workers, which is moving forward towards our rights. This is the proposal we have, and this is where we're going. At these times, which has been the ILO for a hundred years, we want to walk in this direction. Today's labour market, in Spain and Catalonia, has nothing to do with the labour market we had in 2010. Therefore, we will do all we can to guarantee and shield rights that allow us to regulate the new realities. Today they were also talking about the situation of the workers working on these plataforms... ; we must be able to pull it forward. And, therefore, we will abstain at point 6 and vote in favour of point 7, not so much the literality of the reference to the 2010 regulation, but yes as to the issues to be regulated and its orientation. Businesses in crisis, unemployment plan, gender, LGTBI..., in all this, we agree. And leave me, in the minute I'm left... the subject of public sector precariousness. Actually, this is the bomb that appears in this young man. It has been twenty years of precariousness, many times, of people who have to stabilize their situation. We've had enough of seeing election photos – of President Torra and all –, summits, photos... Mirin, they have a pending letter from UGT and Commissions, of May 10, that said to them: « Maximum urgency and celerity. They're watching us. There is a precarious job in the Public Administration of the Generality; work not fixed, after years and years of services provided with professionalism, efficiency, efficiency. Cal answer and solutions. That's what the unions tell them, that you did have time to see 'during the election campaign, but after the election campaign, you don't find the time. We, perhaps, the literality and the details that arise in this young man's case, believe that they should not be in a young man's case, but that is the way it was seen, it has been proven that we have to react to this government: until a young man in this Parliament is approved, the government does not react. We saw it with the payments, which we talked about before, in Raúl Moreno's office, and we hope to see it again now. Meeting the Public Service Bureau and reaching agreements with workers' representatives to avoid the precariousness we have in the public sector. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.137.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.138.0	We, in the first place, want to thank the present motion to the Group of Catalonia in Comú We can, among other things, because our lives, for which we determine the most is whether we have work or not, and whether we have quality work or not – more quickly, if we have precarious work. That said, we also want to remember that, in our country, the ability to carry out labour laws is null; we have some skills in the field of work, but not in the field of labour law. The State, which sees labor relations, historically, as a more market, made it very clear that this was a single market and therefore does not give us skills for labor. But, at times, too, when we have the capacity to intervene, we wanted to make statements, statements to three very different blocks. The first, which refers to what is the nude, is to repeal the counter- labor reforms, not only that of 2012 of the People's Party, but also that of 2010 of the Socialist Party. Secondly, to accompany some of the complaints made by the companies and companies of the commission promoting guaranteed income – we also think that it was a waste to incorporate this content into this motion. And, thirdly, in that we can have a concrete alternative from the Government of Catalonia, which is when we have the condition of an occupier or an occupier – so they would say, all of them, the Catalan Administration as a company, even though it is the public sector. And, in this sense, the proposals or proposals that we have made are, for a band, what makes reference to there being a decree law that is present for the government, that is validated in this plenary and that supposes the application of Article 61.6 of the EBP, that means that there is a collection of workers and workers, those who are older and older than the public administration, that have a specific selection process. This does not mean that we give the place to anyone, on the contrary, those who have suffered from precariousness in maximum expression for years, because there was no summons, who had an alternative. Second alternative, the transitional provision 4 of the EBP, which also meant that those who were in 2000 or those who were in 2005 had a specific call. And the third, which makes specific reference to the Resolution of May 17, 2019, calling for the collection of social workers. We obviously ask that it is ineffective and not because it doesn't happen, because the same call can come out, but in application of some of these two alternatives that we are proposing, it is already the 61.6 or it is the one that makes reference to the fourth transitory provision of the EBP. And last but not least, for professors and associate professors and lawbreakers...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.139.0	Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.140.0	...that they follow what they must be, that they are structural personnel and, therefore, indefinite. And, for another band, also for the investigative staff, who apply the law, which is what we asked to the president of the Generality of Catalonia yesterday. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.141.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Martí Pachamé has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.142.0	President, Councillor, Members, Members... First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Yolanda López for her willingness to negotiate the amendments that we have tabled and which she has agreed to include in her motion. I would like to explain the meaning of our amendments, since virtually all of them refer to motions previously tabled by our group and adopted at parliamentary level. The Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomera does nothing more, therefore, than to highlight something that everyone but the Government of the Generalitat knows at this point: we have a government that does not work, we have a government that does not govern. With our amendments, we have highlighted that there are a lot of parliamentary initiatives that the Government, out of desire or lack of interest, has simply ignored; it has gone beyond them. We have tabled motions to review the resolutions on the denial of the guaranteed income of citizens; to give effect to positive administrative silence; to carry out a study on the grounds that there are people who, having applied for guaranteed income, have not wanted to accept the supplementary activation and insertion benefit; to guarantee the freedom, effective equality and non-discrimination of LGBTI+ people, in particular with regard to transgender people in the labour market; and to promote active policies for the prevention of occupational risks with a gender dimension, in order to be able to intervene and guarantee the safety and health of women in their jobs. All these measures are not novel, on the contrary, they have been approved for some time in the previous legislature. And what has the Government done to apply even if it is a single point of all these that I have just mentioned? Don't worry, the answer is simple: nothing. In fact, yesterday the tax on assets and productions was approved and I am afraid that the company that will be most affected will be the Government of the Generalitat. We therefore welcome this motion, as it shows, regrettably, that the Government is for other things, that the Government is on a different plane – how can we say that? – more metaphysical. And, of course, these worldly things are not of your concern and apply the « qui dies passe, annis empeny. And so we are, waiting for them to come down to this earthly level one day, to the raw reality of many of our fellow citizens. Just remember in this respect, Mr Eduard Pujol's statements on what to discuss on waiting lists was not the essential thing. The substance of this motion is job insecurity. The motion deals with quite a few issues and is a bit of a cul-de-sac of many proposals, which will serve no purpose if whoever has political responsibility does nothing to enable their actual implementation. So, once again, we ask the government to rule, to win the salary at once, to stop playing floral games and to go down to the ground, to the place where the real problems of the real people are solved. Real problems like job insecurity. Citizens, in this regard, have real and concrete proposals, and we believe that they should be taken into account. In fact, we have long been reporting that both the PP and PSOE labour legislation have not yielded the expected results. For 30 years, we have maintained an average unemployment rate well above the European average. Both socialist and popular reforms have failed to reduce unemployment or to reduce insecurity. In addition, job insecurity is eaten in a very concrete, very determined population cohort, the youngest and, above all, in young women, preventing the construction of reasonable life projects. Precarity affects economic growth, birth, work reconciliation, pensions and equality between men and women. Einstein said: "If you look for different results, don't always do the same. We propose a labour reform that reduces to one the more than forty types of current contracts, which only encourage job insecurity. We propose a single contract that is indefinite. On the other hand, we also advocate that labour rights travel with the worker throughout his working life, the so-called 'Austrian backpack'. These two measures would be a real revolution in our anchored labour market. We have examples of what works in other countries, what has already been proven in other economies. Let us ask ourselves why in other countries they have practically full employment and we always live with a structural unemployment of more than two digits. From Citizens we have always defended that complex problems do not usually have simple solutions. In this case we are faced with the Gordian knot of the Spanish economy and therefore Catalan. Let's be brave and not do the easy thing, repeat the mistakes of the past. You have to cut the knot completely so you can undo it. And in our case the knot is in the labyrinth of contracts that provoke that dual market in our economy. The labour market is going to undergo a profound transformation in the coming years. In fact, you no longer serve the nineteenth-century models in which you maintain yourselves. Globalization, robotics, changing industrial paradigms are realities that are already here and on which we have to make decisions. Gentlemen of the Government, act at once, abandon your paralysis, earn your succulent salary, face the challenges of the future of our community and prepare for the changes that are coming. And I've already told you other times, if you don't know or don't want to do it you just have to step aside, that we do want and, besides, we know how to do it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.143.0	On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Albert has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.144.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, Workers and Workers in Parliament, we are ahead of a motion that has been presented by the Companions and Companions of the Communal Group We can, in effect, talk about many issues, right? We talk about how to generate employment policies until we face the challenge of staying in the dark and having no resources to live a dignified life. We take the whole spectrum of this evolution. Before this young man, we have presented various papers, some papers that have gone on the line not only to point out some questions of the text, but also to the line of making possible what we approve today. Some of these items have been accepted, others have not been accepted. But then there was a parliamentary group, the parliamentary group of the CUP, which presented a follow-up of discussions, points of addition, taking advantage of the fact that today we have this motion from the table. And I essentially want to talk about these CUP items, because, in effect, there is a lot of agreement. I very much agree with those points that relate to social workers. It is a subject that we have been working on for a long time, and it is a subject that we took advantage of in the past plenary that we were all parliamentary groups here to have a meeting and to reach, with the unions as well, a proposal to be able to move to the general table. The answer was, on the part of Public Service, the publication of a summons decree. And that's not it – that's not it. This summons decree was a very clear message respecting the meeting that was held the day before. And these points of the young man what they do is put this on the table. And we want these points to apply and we want this general table to be convened and there to be a global agreement for all the affected groups; we want there to be a global agreement for all the affected groups and this agreement to go through Article 61.6. And we want this decree – this decree – to be adopted and reissued with an agreed call. That's what we want – that's what we want. After we see the vote, but I want to make it very clear that when I look at the eyes of a social worker, when I look at her in the eyes and I reach a compromise, I come to the end. And that's what we're doing from this window to the end. And then we'll vote, I insist, but we want to get to the end. This young man has allowed us to pose various questions on the table. And on guaranteed income there are some points where we will abstain, but for a matter of time, for a question that we cannot ensure words as soon as possible. We know that the regulation is in way of allegations, and that it has a time of compliment, and that this regulation will finally arrive, logically we will have it here, but we cannot guarantee that it will be immediately. We tried to arrive at a definite term, but we also know that we are in the period of time that we are. But he's working on it and moving on. In the framework of the Labour Relations Council, which we presented to you, we are totally in agreement with the level of concertation and this is where the compromise has to be, as in the strategic Mark of Safety and Health at Work. For us it's important that these concert halls work, and from the department it's working so that's it. Well, today we have before us a young man who's important and who's uplifting. This young man will approve a lot of his points also because we have presented papers in this sense since the Republic Group. And, therefore, we will finally see the degree of implementation. Very important, too, the points that make reference to the policies of LBGTI and also to the policies of insertion of women in the world of work. We have also made proposals in this sense and from the department we are aware that it is one of the great priorities of this legislature. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.145.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mrs Teresa Pallarès has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.146.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, look, as Muriel Casals said, to have a welfare state, which we all want, first to have a state. And I remind all those who are accusing the government of not doing the job..., those who have had responsibilities for governing in Madrid, in them or in them, perhaps that they are concerned about the democratic regression that we are painted with the suspension of deputies, senators and the veto on entry to the European Parliament, and that they are doing the favor of dedicating themselves to what is really happening in this country because we can work normally from the institutions and we can do the job that you claim. [[Greetings.]] Mirin, we do not, as has been said, have the capacity to legislate in the field of work – we only have executive competence, which is important, but we want more –; we do not have the capacity to dispose of resources or decide increases in public expenditure. Therefore, we are still carrying out performances in the Spanish courts, as it has also been reflected in this young man who is present to us today. This is the mark we find ourselves on. But the objective and the challenges are clear: it is necessary to establish a new labour system that makes Catalonia a country that is going forward. And the repte is very important. As we have seen, there have been many fears today, on which we will surely need to deepen and work much more, but we will not fail or give up this objective. Plus, we invite them to help us make it possible. And this could also have gone through a presumptive pass-through agreement, which we might have now taken from the table and many of these proposals we could have pulled forward at once. But let's go into the contents of the young man's room. I'll touch the loose ends because the motion is really very wide. But we are also talking about the subject of labour reform. It is clear that seven years have passed since his approval and that there have been major shortcomings. And, therefore, we agree that the necessary changes are urgently needed to bring about this new framework of labour relations, also to facilitate the competitiveness of our businesses, to adapt to the new social realities that are emerging in the field of reconciliation and family life, and to the challenges that arise from information and communication technologies. Left-handedness. Obviously, on our part, we agree to regain Moció 32/XI's agreements on occupational health policies. We understand and take back the context of the Importance of the Labour Relations Board, where it was agreed to a strategic framework to which the Government complimented, on this platform, by mediating the actions developed there. And it's kept to an important point to reduce work-related leftlessness, with attention to our natural risks... related to musculoskeletal diseases or even exposure to cancer agents, such as asbestos, which is often enough. For what you do to the job inspection, Mrs. Yolanda López, we have already talked about that we obviously agree to promote this point, but we don't have the skills. Therefore, we will be at your side, at the side of Parliament, to urge that, in Madrid, this call, therefore, we can also provide a higher number of inspectors. For what it does to guaranteed income, remember that the precord sunk the year 2017 was one of the most important adventures that were made in Catalonia, pioneer to the State and in the line of many European countries. Deployment wasn't easy. It had a progressive period, starting in 2017 with a forecast until 2020, with a complicated and sensitive scope and coverage, because we are talking about people, and we are talking about people, more, who need support to cope with difficult situations. But, listen, it's public money and the system is guaranteed and it has to follow the steps with the firmness and rigour that correspond. That said, I also believe, counselor, that you should be very attentive to the complaints and the suggestions that come to make this agility possible in management and give an answer to the citizenry. Obviously, we agree with the publication of the regulation, as it could not otherwise be, perhaps not with the immediate request, but to work in this line. Displacement of enterprises; absolutely agreeable. I am convinced that the business fabric has also made an important effort to generate wealth, but also jobs. And, therefore, from the councillor, from the department of Constellera Chacón is working in a very firm form through the Directorate General of Industry and Action. I also want to get to the point... of the last points that got into the CUP. Tell them that for our part in many of these points we agree. I've talked about it, I've had the opportunity to talk about it. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] Before the social workers, but we think this young man...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.147.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.148.0	...is sufficiently extensive and extensive as to why this point is specifically dealt with in another way and not with so many complex themes that have come forward. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.149.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to fix his position has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.150.0	Thank you, President. Well, this, indeed, is a motion on job insecurity, but already from its initial report, with the contributions of the rest of the parliamentary groups, it touches a wide range of questions. But ideas, basics. First, today we may be talking about job insecurity; a few years ago the priority was not to fight against job insecurity, the priority was precisely job creation. And, indeed, said the spokesman of the Socialist Group, the labor market of the year 2010 is very different from the labor market in guany. But I also take advantage to remind the Ciutadans Group, which have come to claim that labor reforms have not served to reduce unemployment, that, man, moving from 5_million to 3_million, man, it seems to me that at least it is a significantly positive result, isn't it? And, therefore, there are no words that can be made according to what expressions, which seems to me to be a little light in this sense. In relation to the motion, we will support an important part of the aspects that are raised, especially those that refer to the guaranteed income of citizenship, the rule, of course, and all those aspects that need to improve its management and correct errors that have been made in its management in the past months. We will also support the proposals that the CUP group has incorporated in relation to the stabilization of work places, which particularly affect, therefore, social workers, who accompany us throughout today. It is reasonable that calls are made to stabilize work places in the field of public administration. We share what is in store with regard to the hiring of associate professors by universities and research staff, but we also do not believe that the solution is what is being done in this case. And, therefore, in these points we shall abstain. Obviously, what we would vote against are those points that are called for is the repeal of labour reform, precisely because, therefore, it has served because we stop talking or talk less about job creation and now we have another problem, which is that of job insecurity. Because there is a precarious job, there has to be a job market, and now there is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.151.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, and to pronounce on the papers, has the word of new deputy Yolanda López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.152.0	Thank you, President. It is clear that with the times that we have marked and how broad the motion is it is impossible to stop in depth at each of the points and at each of the things that have been commented here. I believe that we have tabled a complete motion and that it has been much better with the contributions of everyone. We still have a long way to go, but if the Government were to comply with these points, I am sure that much progress could be made in this area. As I said at the beginning of my speech, I would especially like to thank the'menas' presented by the Members of the CUP and by the Citizens', to whom we have accepted all the'menas' because they have been totally constructive and to improve this motion. We highlight the points made by Citizens regarding guaranteed income and on the framework of occupation with a gender perspective. Also the points of the compañeros and compañeras of the CUP, especially those as important as that of the processes of selection of public employment, that has served us to see that Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Cat share government but not project and that this makes that instead of solutions they create problems. And we also want to thank the hirings of the faculty associated with the public university. Members of the PSC are grateful for their contribution to the Catalan framework for the quality of practice. And, on the other hand, with regard to the'menas of the government groups', we have accepted some that we consider to be improvements, but obviously we are not going to be complicit in those'menas that have been presented with the intention of extending the times, the deadlines. Thank you all so much for your contribution. I believe that there is still a motion that has been made among all of us to improve the job insecurity caused by the labour reform that the PP so defends. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.153.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.154.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 6.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.155.0	Yeah, all right. Any more? [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.156.0	For a separate vote, on one side, of item 4, and on the other side a block containing points 3, 5, 5 bis, 5 quater, 5 quinquies, 13, 17b, 19, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 and 26.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.157.0	If you can get us there... do you have it in writing, Mrs. Caula? [[Pause.]] Can we get the list? [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.158.0	Yes; also separate votes. If you're still not convinced to do it separately, do you read it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.159.0	I understand it's because it doesn't match the request made.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.160.0	No, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.161.0	So listen to me, we'll vote separately all the points, and that's it. All right, let's start this young man's vote. I understand, for what Mrs. Caula said, and I understand, for what Mr. Rodriguez was going to say, so did the subpoints? [[Pause.]] Yeah? All right. So start voting point one. The first point was approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. This point was approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 64 votes in favour, against and 62 abstentions. And now we're going to vote number four. The vote begins. The quarter point has been... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] There was a tie, actually: 62 votes in favour, 62 against and 3 abstentions. So let's go back to voting this quarter point. The vote begins. In the quarter there was again 62 votes against, 62 against and 3 abstentions. Now we'd have to wait a while for the third vote to be taken, but if it seems to us, let's go straight to the vote, because I understand that there is no Member to be called. [[Pause.]] No, no, So let's start voting again point number four. The vote begins. Point 4 was finally approved by 65 votes to 62, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] We're voting now for five points. The vote begins. The five-point was approved by 65 votes in favour, against and 62 abstentions. We're voting the five-a-point now. The vote begins. Point 5a was approved by 65 votes to 62. We're voting now for the 5b point. The vote begins. Point 5b was approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the 5 quater point. The vote begins. Point 5c was approved by 65 votes to 62. And now we're voting for the five-fifth point. Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. This was approved by 65 votes to 62. And now we're going to vote number six. The vote begins. The sixth point was approved by 72 votes to three, with 52 abstentions. And we're voting on the seven-point now. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 88 votes to three, with 36 abstentions. We're voting on the 8th. The vote begins. The eighth point was approved by 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions, that is, unanimously. And we're voting on the new one now. The vote begins. The point has also been approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we're voting now on the one-off. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 124 votes to none, with 3 abstentions. And we're voting now for the dot. The vote begins. The dot was approved by 88 votes in favour, against and 39 abstentions. And we're voting now on the trestle point. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 63 votes to 64 with 64 abstentions. We're voting for the 14th point now. The vote begins. The fourteen-point was approved by 124 votes in favour, against and three abstentions. And we're voting now for the 15th. The vote begins. The 15th point was approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and no abstentions. We're voting for the seven-point now. The vote begins. The seven-point vote also goes for unanimity: 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're going to vote for the dissé. The vote begins. The point was approved unanimously: 127 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the split point. The vote begins. The split point is approved for [[remorse of the voice]] ... is approved by 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions, i.e. unanimously. [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Say'm, Miss Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.162.0	We asked them separately for point 17.b. We haven't been there in time, between 17 and 18, which you sang...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.163.0	Yes; the one that passes, which are not subpoints, but are letters between the point. They weren't numerals at 17.b...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.164.0	When we asked him to vote separately from all points...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.165.0	So now we've voted the whole point, Mrs. Caula. In any case, I insist on one thing: in order to vote on the sub-points, the points and sub-points must be listed. Here were letters from the point. For the next time, that all groups have it in mind. Keep going. We're voting for the new dot now, dot 19. The vote begins. The new point was approved by 63 votes in favour, against and 61 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the 20th. The vote begins. The twenty-first point was approved unanimously; 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting now for the twenty-first point. The vote begins. The twenty-first point was approved by 65 votes in favour, against and 62 abstentions. We're voting point number 22. The vote begins. Point 22_has been approved by 65 votes to 62 abstentions. And now we're voting point 23. The vote begins. This point, the twenty-third, was approved by 65 votes in favour, against and 62 abstentions. We're voting now for the twenty-four. The vote begins. The 24_point was rejected by 26 votes to 36, with 65 abstentions. We're voting 25th now. The vote begins. Point 25 was approved by 26 votes in favour, against and 101 abstentions. And we're voting now on the 26th. The vote begins. The twenty-sixth point was approved by 63 votes in favour, against and 64 abstentions. And we've been through the new point, which is what we're going to vote on, the number nine point, huh? The vote begins. Point 9_has been approved unanimously; 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now, it seems that there are no more points... tell me, Mr. Pujol, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.166.0	To clarify the vote: at 17.b, our group would have abstained. And we ask it to be in the record.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.167.0	Okay. [[Paroles of various Members of the European Parliament]] We're still on the order of the day. On 23 May, as the parliamentary groups know, a parliamentary group called for, in this case together for Catalonia, and the Council unanimously accepted that during the plenary session it was possible to give reading to three comity cards of former Members Jordi Turull, Josep Rull and Jordi Sánchez, who did not arrive in time in the previous plenary, in which they know that we have opened an exceptional turn to intervene in these effects the groups and the deputies who so wished. On this occasion, the Board agreed to donate the word in a manner limited to reading these cards and limited in time to read these texts. The quoted group has distributed the reading among three Members who are, by this order: Mr. Mònica Sales, on behalf of Mr. Josep Rull, who will read the letter, therefore, of Mr. Josep Rull; Mr. Albert Batet, who will read the letter of Mr. Jordi Sánchez, and Mr. Quim Torra, who will read the letter of Mr. Jordi Turull, therefore... [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]] Yes; say'm, Mrs. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.168.0	President, on a point of order. [[Pause.]] Well, as we have already stated at the Board, although a five-minute shift was granted to each group that had some elected deputy in the General Courts so that it could, therefore, fire itself from this chamber, that shift already took place in the previous Plenary and the Junts per Catalunya Group already made use of its five-minute shift. Therefore, we now understand that this concession involves an extra turn and a differential treatment with respect to the rest of the groups in the chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.169.0	Very well; Mrs. Roldán, as you know, was placed at the Board of Spokespersons, in which there was-there was a majority agreement just to include this apartment in this Plea. Therefore, we proceed to reading. In the first place, as I said, I would like to ask Mrs Mònica Sales to read Mr Josep Rull's letter.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.170.0	"Very Honourable President of the Generalitat, very Honourable President of the Parliament of Catalonia, Honourable Councillors, Honourable Councillors, illustrious Members of Parliament, illustrious Members of Parliament, benvolguous families, parliamentary staff, public assistants, present authorities, more than twenty-one years ago than soc parliamentarians of this chamber. I came in very young, maybe too young. If I'm not wrong, today I'm the deputy with more years of uninterrupted service than the twenty-second term. My step towards Parliament has generated a lot of gratitude that I want to share. I don't do it because of the obligation of a committee, but because of the sincere emotion from which he has lived his parliamentary activity very passionately. First of all, my thanks go to those who make this institution work, from the members of the Bureau, to all the legal, technical, administrative and service staff. The sincere country can have a legitimate sense of pride in the human and professional quality of the public servants of this Parliament. I want to customize this grace in the six presidents I have had: Joan Revantós, Joan Rigol, Ernest Benach, Núria de Gispert, Carme Forcadell and Roger Torrent. All of them have deigned this institution as temporary despots of the letter that the late president of the exile of 1939, Francesc Farreras and Duran, sent to what should be the new president of the chamber after the 1979 elections and who went from hand to hand, president re president, as a symbol of the historical continuity of the Parliament of Catalonia. Despite 155, despite the Supreme's judgments that arbitrarily alter the democratic majority, despite the imprisonment, despite the new exile. I also want to have words of thanks for the compañeros and compañeros of the Fiftieth Legislature so far. For those with whom I have shared parliamentary groups and for those who, militant in other formations, have always had a predisposition to the dialogue, to the agreement and to the confrontation of visions and opinions from mutual respect. I hope I have responded to them with my attitude and my behavior. If it hasn't been, they'll apologize. During this year I was able to see how, here, people are over political colors. The same week my great son Bernat was born, I questioned Councilman Joaquim Nadal, with whom we beat hard at every ple. I'll never forget the gloss that he made of it and that I'm like an authentic treasurer. The best essence of a policy, where the human factor oversteps the party border. And that's what the novel is. Friendship built with people who have enriched me, with political positions so diverse, is one of the most valuable assets that I take advantage of this Parliament. Laws with more consensus, apparently impossible, more solid, always have bridge builders at the back and, today, more than ever. Laws conceived from the great Catalan ideals of social justice and the modernization of the country. And finally, thanks to the media professionals. On unfinished business days, the brightest windows become through which citizens can access the colour of Parliament. They are a key piece to ensure the salvation of our democracy. On November 27, 1997, he made a manyoc of nerves, I advanced – then there were graons – for the first time in this rostrum. He said: "In my first intervention in the plenary, allow me to express the honor that as the Catalan nationalist I suppose I can address them the word from this bitter forum of dignity, history and solemnity. For today it still represents the limited sovereignty of the people of Catalonia, I am convinced that one day it will be that of a free nation." I maintain with more determination than ever this shared ideal, from deep radicalism and democratic respect. It has been an immense privilege to serve this people as a member of the Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you so much; thank you so much. Josep Rull and Andreu, from Soto del Real prison. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.171.0	Now it's Mr. Albert Batet's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.172.0	Reading of the letter sent to the President of our parliamentary group, from Junts to Catalunya, Mr Jordi Sánchez, to the very honourable President of the Parliament of Catalonia on the grounds of resignation as a Member of the Parliament of Catalonia. « Most honorable Mr Roger Torrent and Ramío, President of the Parliament of Catalonia. Benvolgut President, departure from my Parliament with a certain sadness for not having been able to occupy it one day I was told that the citizenry entrusted me with the 21st of December. But sad March did not come down, and less still won in defense of my ideals. I hope that Catalonia will become an independent state in the form of a republic. But for this work, one day the men and women of our country can decide freely and without external pressure what must be Catalonia's future policy. So today a few say it's impossible one day will be normal. I know that with some of you, they separate ideas and diverge from the future policy that we aspire to for Catalonia. This, however, can never be an impediment to the dialogue; quite the contrary: plurality is the essence of democracy and the nuances that others bring us allow us to enrich our own. The best service we can do from Parliament to democracy and cohesion in the country is to assume the commitment not to ever take away the dialogue or the debate, and to practice it uncomplicatedly, especially with those we consider to be our opponents or political rivals. That is why I thank all those who, despite arresting her and political tension, have kept a dialog, a simple conversation with me or any of the other political prisoners and exiles long these months. Especially because this one doesn't feel like an easy legislature. In conscious shock. Allow me to say at this point that I do not have a reason to disagree with some of you, in the statement that you have always been better off if the 30th generation of 2018 this Parliament has held the investiture session of the candidate and at that time chairing Carles Puigdemont, regardless of the outcome of the investiture. And we would also have had less pain if no one had broken and turned the investiture of the Jordi Turull into impossible on that 23rd March also impossible to forget. Unfortunately, they can't go back. It's about looking forward and building solid spaces and plurals of dialog. I'm in love. I welcomed the wish that the will of the people expressed in the ballot box could lead to practice, that it would never be persecuted or repressed, and that no one would go into prison for defending the right to assembly and a self-determination referendum. When all this is done, we can look into our eyes and tell ourselves that this time, despite everything, it will be worth it. Good work, lots of luck and uncertainty. Turn on your eyes and push your arm. Jordi Sánchez, May 29, 2019. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.173.0	And, finally, president... when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.174.0	Good morning. It was a great honor to be able to address this chamber the day after... two days after Jordi Turull was hired, he touched me, as the Junts representative for Catalonia. Today it is another great honor to be able to read them the letter you send from Soto del Real prison, May 16, 2019. « Most honorable Mr Roger Torrent, President of the Parliament of Catalonia. Benvolgut President, I was pleased to be able to do so personally to the Chamber, as is tradition, for a question of courtesy and respect for the Chamber, but my situation of pre-trial detention for being justly loyal to the mandate of this Parliament and, by extension, to the citizen of Catalonia, obliges me to make you aware, through this letter written from the cell of the Prison, of my resignation as a Member from tomorrow, May 17, as a result of the incompatibilities that have survived because I was chosen as a Member of the Congress of Deputies in the general elections of April 28. I am saddened by what the Catalan Parliament represents for me and also with a huge sense of anger after so many years of parliamentary activity. But I also do so from the point of view of my will and I am pleased to be consistent again with my commitment to the citizens of Catalonia and, in particular, on this occasion, with the citizens of the demarcation of Lleida, Pirineu and Aran, which are the ones who have chosen me for this new challenge that the political project that I represent has recommended me. These fifteen years I have been a member of the Parliament of Catalonia have been of great personal and political intensity, and they have clearly marked my life. There has been everything, but I have kept the good records and the good and better of each of the 135 Members and Members with whom I have been able to share so many moments in the parliamentary term. Despite the time we are living and my prison situation, I have said it many times and I repeat it, to my heart there is only space for gratitude and compromise, there is not a_none of resentment or grudge. There has been so much honor and so much work done that I won't let it be drawn up by punctual episodes a little edifying that could be produced and always and again could be found. Yes, he does apologize if in the heat of so many lively debates and the parliamentary intensity of these years I have been able to offend someone for some expression of mine. It was never my will, but, if that's the case, I sincerely apologize. I am, however, in my case, with whom I have been able to know and learn and even generate many personal complicitys with Members and Members of Parliament from all over the Parliament and the enormous political discrepancy that in many cases separated us. I would also like you to transfer to all the public servants working in Parliament, all without exception, my recognition and thanks for your great professionalism and for so many rebuffed attentions that have facilitated my parliamentary activity. All this, all these years of intense parliamentaryism, added to my political convictions, makes me feel like I'm in debt to this chamber and to the citizens of Catalonia that so many times in the polls have held my privileges, honour and responsibility for being a member of the Parliament of Catalonia. I wish the best in personal land for everyone and everyone. In my case, I cease to be a Member of Parliament, but my loyalty to this chamber and my commitment to the citizens of Catalonia and their progress and well-being will remain intact, as well as my political activism from then on where I live in order to achieve the independence of Catalonia peacefully and democratically. Many thanks for so much, and always available to the Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you very much, Jordi Turull and Black. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.175.0	Thank you very much. We suspend the session until three-quarters of the late four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.176.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies; som-hi. Let's resume the session. [[Motion subsequent to the inquiry on the policy of recognitions and decorations]] [[302-0004/12]] The new item on the agenda is the motion following the question to the Government on the policy of recognition and decorations, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. In order to expose it, Mrs Esperanza García has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.177.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... look, this motion that you intend to regulate is common sense. And you will say to me: "Man, is common sense? Can common sense be regulated? It wouldn't seem necessary, would it? Yes, in the case of this Government, it does seem necessary to regulate that common sense. Why? Because I believe that this government, what it has demonstrated with the last award of the awards of the Cross of Sant Jordi, is that logic..., the limits of logic have exceeded them. The limits also..., do not bother me, but also of morality and of what is ethical or exemplary, you too have overcome it. And, therefore, this motion, which should be almost unnecessary, because, in this case, it becomes not only appropriate, but also guarantor of what we want to demonstrate as a society; of those values that we want to promote in our society, of those examples, those virtues and those merits that we want to highlight so that the rest of society walks alongside the institutional, to improve in the future, right? In the question that precedes precisely this motion, we asked the conseller Vilallonga..., among other things because the flight of the conseller of Presidència, who was who had the competence and who had to give explanations in this sense, for it was obvious, it was to all gas, disappeared, and therefore the poor conseller of Justicia, who..., woe, of Educatio, who was, his first session, had to answer a series of questions that we asked him – although he did not actually do so, did he not? And the questions were very simple and very simple to answer, and they were: what criteria, what protocols, what series of elements had been taken into account to grant at the time – as happened a month and a half ago – that Cruz de Sant Jordi, especially Mrs. Núria de Gispert, whose behavior was reprobated by this same chamber, right? He did not answer us, not only to the criteria that were taken into account for this concession of that Cross of Sant Jordi, but also he did not answer us about other criteria that can be taken into account – or the same – for the case of the Medal d'Or de la Generalitat ; or even, therefore, the Prix Internacional Catalunya. Moreover, not only did he not answer, but he asked us, especially other parliamentary groups which, at the time, have been the Government of Spain, about what criteria we were considering to award general prizes throughout Spain, right? Obviating even what a government control session is, isn't it? That what it consists in is precisely that the opposition groups ask the government for explanations and accounts, of all the decisions they make; among them, the award of prizes and decorations, as we find ourselves with this Creu de Sant Jordi. Look, I was denouncing to you, in that inquiry, that from 2014 until now, the awards of..., especially of the Creu de Sant Jordi and Medalla d'Or de la Generalitat de Catalunya, had become a prize that, incidentally, always coincided with those who were procesors of superindependence, right? I mean, they'd been partying, right? And he gave examples, to the councilwoman, of the past, where there was a plurality of people who had been beneficiaries of that prize, of different ideologies, with different merits, with different contributions to the cultural, sporting life of Catalonia, and that that had been exhausted to the point that only in sports had, let's say, remained unpartisan. And I ask myself: "Man, use the foundations – if you still have any left, after the Palau case – "to give them prizes to friends, but not institutions. The motion will surely have the opposition of Esquerra Republicana, CUP and Junts per Catalunya, but precisely what is wanted is to avoid the partisanization of institutional awards, which pay homage to people who have intolerant behaviors, insolidarities, xenophobic attitudes, or even, therefore, judicial or corruption problems. That is to say, judicial problems also, because we introduce in our motion the criterion that someone who finds himself immersed in a judicial procedure, until it is resolved, should not be the object of honors, so that no award-winner feels the chill of having to see himself in the thesis of accepting or not an honor or a decoration, as has already happened to us with some of the winners of the Cruz de Sant Jordi, who have not only denied the prize, which discredits and devalues that prize, but also have even made public resignation of that prize. And why? Because when awards and decorations are partyed, in the end what happens is that the, say, honored feel that they participate in the political sectarianism of a government. That is exactly what this motion is about, and we are hopeful that you will perhaps reconsider and be able to vote for it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.178.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, to defend the papers presented, he has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.179.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, well, it's true that it is missing, not just in the Catalan sphere, but in the context of the state sphere, a general regulatory framework for the system of concessions of honors, distinctions, decorations, etc., isn't it? And that, therefore, makes it a source of uncertainty for what it does to the proceedings, to the merits that are to be gathered in the granting of these honors. I don't mean that there are no standards, both in the Catalan sphere and in the state sphere, but it is true that a general regulatory framework is missing. In the Catalan case, specifically, which is what is proposed, this obviously does not exist, and it is what the movement wants to contribute to what is produced. We do not know whether, from the point of view of the terminology used, and of the, let's say, correctness of what is proposed, is the most adjunct, the one proposed in the same motion for a resolution, but, in any case, as we are not directly discussing the regulation that is in place, but we are discussing the idea of drafting a certain regulation, and a series of characteristics is listed which is considered that this regulation should bring together or contain the minimum content that this provision should contain, so it seems reasonable to address the debate on the question. Which, besides, would be reasonable to approach, at least, outside the most recent polemics, huh? , that we – now yes – donate for bonds. Not when said by the President of the Generality – certainly with enormous clarity – but that we now consider the concrete controversy, which is at the origin of the motion, to be closed, right? But let us consider that, even so, and past this concrete controversy, it is necessary that, let us say, the chamber, if this motion passes the examination of this plenary, then it can contribute to the elaboration of standards of respect, right? , even though, obviously, the government is, in any case, what you have to regulate around a rule. But in any case, we have to tell you that we have presented a message, since you have spoken in your intervention that the motion went on the common sense, on regulating the common sense..., we have presented it with a message that has surprised us very much that they have neither admitted nor assumed. Well, maybe he's still doing it, because so far we haven't had any communication. I don't know if his will, that of his subgroup is to assume it, but we give him something so simple, with the emena, that those who can be objected to these honors, decorations, distinctions, etcetera, can be only physical or legal persons. Not because something else has happened to Catalonia, until the moment – who knows – but because in other areas, precisely the party to which its subgroup represents has had a certain ability to decorate images, icons, sizes, abstract ideas, that we think should not be recipients of any civil distinction, right? And so..., it is to say, if there is a religious congregation that decides to distinguish with a distinction of the congregation an image of the Virgin of Guadalupe, then we have absolutely nothing to say. But it seems quite strange to us that a minister of the Interior is dedicated to decorating the standards of what he is, doesn't he? And, therefore, it seems to us that since we were discussing regulating the common sense at the time of talking about the concession of distinctions, honors, decorations, etc., this, therefore, came to the case. As I say, not because there are precedents in the case of Catalonia, but who knows, right? And, therefore, it's no more regular than that. Finally, we will give support to the proposal, even though we would obviously have a different approach to a topic, which we have seen you have taken, from the Ciutadans Group, right? , to raise a question about the conversion of the acts into which the release of these concessions in other things is made. We think that here it is not a matter of avoiding that people, individually, in collecting their decoration, can talk about what they think they need to talk about, but of a reflection on how it is different that this is the case or that the joint act is converted into a political act in favor of a certain idea, proposal, etcetera, isn't it? And, therefore, as an element of reflection, at the time of drawing up the general standards to regulate the granting of honours, distinctions and decorations, it seems to me that it would be worth considering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.180.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Ignacio Martín has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.181.0	Yes, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, well, here we are, the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party, a motion for a resolution that, effectively, addresses an aspect that denotes or has denoted, in the later years, the outclusive and sectarian character with which nationalism has attempted to govern Catalonia. Nationalism, in fact, is characteristic of its claim to exclosure from the Catalan half of the Catalans. All those who do not share their obsession to separate Catalonia from the rest of Spain. Perhaps they do not agree that, with their attitude, the only thing they do is to entrench our community, to weaken it, regardless of strictly ideological reasons on a substantial part of our human capital, of our intelligence, of our own power; in short, of our great as open and plural society. One of the most obvious exhibitions of this moral hemiplegia with which nationalism has wanted to govern Catalonia... – the term « moral hemiplegia, the saying handling it from Ortega and Gasset, is not pejorative in absolute – therefore, it says that one of the most obvious exhibitions of this moral hemiplegia, at the time of hearing the Catalan society, have been in the last few years, precisely, the ceremonies of celebration and decoration with the guises of Sant Jordi, which together with the Gold Medal of the Generality are the most important decorations that the Catalan Government attaches to it. Like everything that the governments of Catalonia have done in recent years, Sant Jordi's guises have, unfortunately, also turned into prizes, into decorations on the part of the Catalan society, which definitively and absolutely unjustly expels..., tray a fundamental part of the Catalan society. The total practice of guards on this occasion, and on other occasions, in the later years, they are people who, beyond their merits– that some of them do not deny them in absolute terms, and I will not go into assessing the merits of these people–– have either meant themselves for the separatist cause or, in any case, for their adherence to the sovereignist process, to the separatist process. This was clearly evident during the ceremony of delivery of Encany, when absolutely all the guards carried by two, the authorities present and the audience protruded in cry for the separatist cause in this ceremony, carried by these two whom he commented, which effectively carried out an exercise of dignity and bravery that made many Catalans feel identified for what he has, let us say, asphyxiating, of little recognition of the intrinsic plurality of Catalan society, the way in which nationalism confronts political reality in Catalonia. The image was certainly disturbing and clearly reflected the fact that nationalism has for the diversity of Catalonia, and this lack of respect is what presides over the action of this government. The government has converted Sant Jordi's beliefs into private prizes for nationalists and prevents them from being what they should be: prizes that recognize the intellectual, cultural, artistic or sporting trajectory of all those who bring value to our society, that, regardless of their ideology or language in which they have developed their professional career, make great Catalanism, which, as Gaziel said – which he countered to Catalanism – "Caltanity has the virtue of creating in extraordinarily broad terms the same as Catalanism returns to an extraordinarily narrow one. Well, this narrower, this small, this sectarianism, reflects it better than any other person like the President of the Nuria Parliament of Gispert, to whom the Government intended to bind this Cree of Sant Jordi, and who in no case represent the virtues or values, the bonds that inform the Tarann of most of the citizens of Catalonia. The same Mrs. De Gispert, after the scandal, after the social pressure that she generated, had to go back, but the government in no case has given up on this prize, and this is really what we think would require some explanation before the chamber. From this point of view, the pretence of arresting Núria de Gispert la Creu de Sant Jordi is the fifth essence of the institutional displeasure and moral degradation that nationalism has inflicted on Catalonia. It is still time for the President of the Generality to appear and give explanations as to why – for me, for us, absolutely unjustifiable interpretations –, as to why to attempt to grant this Cree of Sant Jordi to the Senya De Gispert. A person who remembered him as the leader of the party most voted for the Catalans, sent him to whom he gave his land, as if it were not the land of Ines Arrimadas too, in an exercise of supremacy and xenophobia worthy of the best cause. In an underlying community of the highest autonomous institutions to a decadent spiral of sectarianism and exclusion, no wonder this way to deliver the hollows of Sant Jordi. I want to remind you that already in an article of the year 2002 the French professor of Carreras is wondering how it was possible that someone like Adolfo Marsillach, the playwright, did not have the Creu de Sant Jordi. And the answer was very clear: « Because it is not one of ours, it is said; « one of ours that nationalism says « one of itss. All those who do not share their sectarianism, their vision of Catalonia, are entitled to traitors and botiflers. And that's what informs how to deliver the Sant Jordi Creeds to Catalonia. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Unfortunately, that's how it is...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.182.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.183.0	...and let's hope I've changed soon enough.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.184.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.185.0	Thank you all. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.186.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can and to fix its position, has the word now Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.187.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. "With the aim of honouring the people who have made a significant effort for the services provided to Catalonia in the civil and cultural sphere, in order to establish a distinction which is attached to the Government of Catalonia, the decree for which was created the Creu de Sant Jordi in 1981 begins. And he continues: "The task of defending his identity and restoring his personality or more generally in the civil and cultural sphere. I believe that the oral debate on the Creu de Sant Jordi and on the setting up of the Creu de Sant Jordi in Mrs. Núria de Gispert is not a regulatory debate; I believe that even the best of the rules could not solve the political debate on the setting up of the Creu de Sant Jordi in Gispert. And I believe that the fundamental question that we need to ask ourselves here today is that the defence of Catalan identity conforms today. I won't read any tweets from Mrs. De Gispert, but I want to read one, because I think it will accompany the reflection that I am going to make at the length of my intervention: "The Staircase is, as many say, a choni de deu. Lucky you're leaving. An incis: class deprivation is also undemocratic, and an expression of a democratic parliament should know that. [[Greetings.]] But there's a phonetic dilemma, beyond that. That an expression from an attacking parliament of Ciutadans is a defense of Catalan identity? I think that's the question we need to ask ourselves. Denying the Catalanity of Ciutadans, the Socialist Party and the People's Party of Catalonia is defending Catalan identity? And it's a background dilemma. Because here there are political groups who are mocking political prisoners and who have campaigned for the permanent dissolution of Catalan institutions. And that's a question we have to ask ourselves. I believe and my group defends that the answer to this question we have to do the opposite: perhaps if there is a parliamentary group like Ciutadans today, which has been the first force in Catalonian elections, it is not because in Catalonia there are two nations, there are some settlers coming down from the bottom of the Spanish Monarch tradition and some Catalan aboriginals coming down from the direct lineage of Jaume I. Perhaps it is because there are many Catalans who have felt expelled from the same project of Catalanism and Catalanity. And I think this is the democratic reflection that we have to do in front of the election results. Catalans, not that they deny their catalanity, but that they have been expelled. And I think here the democratic debate about why not give a creu de Sant Jordi to Mrs De Gispert. We give three reasons for this. Who denies the catalanity of my country tempts against our democratic memory and against the Catalan identity, which is different and plural. Who denies the catalanity of my country denies Catalonia as a democratic identity and as a national project able to group 7_million_i_mig people. The second fundamental reason, and I think that in this we should all reflect, is that when one assumes to be the Speaker of the Parliament of Catalonia for four years he assumes to be the Speaker of the Parliament of Catalonia for the rest of his life. And who is questioning that the Catalan identity belongs to 7_million_i_mig people is questioning the democratic legitimacy of this Parliament and of the Catalan institutions. And, therefore, what should be demanded of Mrs De Gispert is that she is an expression of the Catalonian Parliament and must assume her duty to defend and preserve the dignity of this country and its institutions, and she has not done so. And the third, and I think it also flies over this debate: either the Creu de Sant Jordi is a guard of the highest level that represents the honor of having contributed to Catalonia in the cultural, civic, scientific, political, etcetera, or it is a prize to the most troll tweet of the year. And if it's a prize to the most trolling tweet of the year, it also tempts against the dignity of Catalan institutions. And I think the images we've seen and some of the guards we've seen tempt against the Catalan institutions and against their dignity. And I think we should do it. The guard, the greatest distinction drawn by the Catalan Government, a republican institution like this, cannot be an alien disgrace to my country. And I think he's doing it, and I think it'd be nice to have a deep reflection here. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.188.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.189.0	Thank you, President. From the escó. Well, go ahead as per our criticism and our question in content and in the form that has historically been and is the system of decorations of the Government of Catalonia, which systematically excludes and leaves behind and does not recognize the real heroes of our country, those who have been very anonymously, with their social struggles, so they have obtained rights and freedom for all, from what we all enjoy today, or for which we are still struggling today. And obviously it's a system that I don't recognize because it's a system that doesn't put it in value and therefore doesn't put collective or institutional mechanisms in the way to make it visible. I also went to see that when we saw this young man, seen in abstract form, there were some points that we could agree with him from a point of view of struggle for transparency and against corruption. But, of course, when we go down from the abstract to the concrete, we cannot fail to see an intention – we believe that we are not mistaken – to add this motion to the repressive strategy of the State and, therefore, to prevent in terms of the future that the Generality can never recognize and decorate those people who are victims or objects of the political repression of the State. And that's why we stand against it. But it's that if there's any doubt about us, when we see the deal that's been made with Citizens, then we don't have it anymore. And, finally, let me tell you that those who defend this young man at home, say, don't miss work. Because, look, you defend and legitimize and swallow a state, a state that has never doubted or shook his hand at the hour of decorating torturers. And on the other hand, look, very recently– very recently– Mr. Millo has rejected, at the proposal of Mr. Rajoy, but signed for the Minister Marlaska, of the PSOE – a rule of 78 in pure state, for if anyone in doubt –, so Mr. Millo has rejected something like the Great Silver Cross to the Civil Merit, which, to finish it, the release no more or less than the same Civil Guard. So, listen, they have a lot of work to do to put order to their decorating criteria from a point of view of minimal dignity and democratic legitimacy. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.190.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Mr Bernat Sole's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.191.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, Members, Members, the truth is that listening to most of the interventions of the parliamentary groups I have the feeling that you have not gone to the nuclear point of this motion. And so let me read it, because I don't think we're talking exactly about what we're going to approve in a few minutes or reject in a few minutes. Point 1 of the motion: « Adopt a regulation containing a protocol governing the award of the various prizes, decorations and distinctions granted by the Generalitat de Catalunya. This regulation must have at least the following minimum principles. Apartat b d'aquest point: « Awardees may not be persons or entities who are involved as investigators or civil servants in criminal, administrative or court proceedings. Carl von Ossietzky, accused of another crime of treason by the German military regime for his articles, in which military secrets were revealed, was sentenced to separate years, divided by prison. Defender of disarmament and international pau. Imprisoned by the Nazi government to oppose the regime and deported to three concentration camps. 1935, Nobel Prize la pau. Martin Luther King, night of 5 September 1955, after Rosa Parks refused the order of the Montgomery bus driver to give up a place for a white person: "We have no other option than to protest it. There have been many years of remarkable patience, until the point that we have sometimes given our white Germans the impression that we liked the way they treated us. That's why we're here tonight, to get rid of this patience that has made us patients in something as important as freedom and justice. Defender of the rights of African Americans, arrested and engaged for his activism and for the 381 days of protest for the Montgomery bus. 1964, Nobel la pau. Simon Wiesenthal, Jewish investigator. He dedicates most of his life to locating and identifying fugitive Nazi war criminals, thus delivering them to justice. Empressed at a concentration camp during World War II. Wiesenthal achieved years later to bring more than a thousand_100 perpetrators of crimes against humanity all over the world to justice. 1980, Gold Medal of the Congress of the United States. Aung San Suu Kyi, house arrest in 1989 in Rangun for his non-violent struggle against the Burmese military dictatorship. He will later advise on his state and minister, and another time arrested for more than fourteen years. Winner of the 1990 elections by absolute majority. The military authorities did not recognize this result and could not form a civilian government. Another time arrested for more than thirteen years. 1991, Nobel Prize la pau. Nelson Mandela, leader of the apartheid movement and first president of the Republic of South Africa chosen for universal suffrage: "To be free is not only to free oneself from the same chains, but to live in a way that respects and improves the freedom of others. Twenty-seven years in prison. 1993, Nobel Prize la pau. Rosa Parks, arrested, tried and sentenced for disobedience to a civil servant, for refusing to give up her seat on the bus to a white city. The case ended with the Supreme Court of the United States ruling that racial segregation in the bus system was unconstitutional – you speak of constitution. 1999, Gold Medal of the Congress of the United States. Look, gentlemen of the People's Party and Citizens' Party, this rule that you propose has two objectives: a first objective, that the story is written as you want it to be written; a second objective, you want to be the barrier to defending rights and freedoms..., that all these people have made during all these years. Because the history of civil rights is not written by those who place it at the side of repression, but by those who have always stood at the side of rights and freedoms. To vote in favour of this motion means to stop recognizing all these personalities. I will not do it, and the parliamentary group I represent, neither. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.192.0	On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mr. Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.193.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, councillors, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party presents a motion of when there were a lot of drafts on April, a text that this month of May would have wanted to store because they wanted to be a lot of center; a motion, however, that will now be good for them to fart about who is more Spanish at the time of making the Government of Madrid with Vox and Ciutadans. The truth is that the initial text started well, they say normal things, as now that the object of these decorations is actually to protect and promote the activities or attitudes of individuals that they consider to be of general use. So, look, we agree on this. But you get the same size they carry in, always, and they always end up retracting. Start, let's say, the Pau Couples way and end up showing like the Cid Camper. You do not want – you do not want – the Parliament to ask the Government for a new rule on decorations; you want Catalonia to be Spanish, denying, sedating, liquidating, distorting all the civic cultural values of reference and symbolic that define us as the nation. She felt like she was talking to the congresswoman. Poor feeling like it! It feels like you're letting go of the vote. It bothers you that we are still born, with our own dynamics, neither better nor worse, but that they define us as the people and as society; I insist: neither better nor worse, but that they are born to us. And I don't only talk to them about electoral behaviour, obviously, that too; talking about referendums and collective wills, talking about past, present and above all talking about the future, about a shared idea of the future. His motion reflects two very different ways of seeing reality. In the background, she saw the name of the "recognition and decorations policy", she told us about the beliefs of Sant Jordi, the new obsession, we saw, the new bestseller of 155. You, in the background, would want Sant Jordi to believe them to believe in the civil merit of San Fernando i d'Isabel the Catholic – both mounts Isabel as well as Vox – and to reward, if appropriate, Billy the Child and the Congregation of the Christ of the Good Death, patron of the legion. That's what you want. You would want some of the Generality's gold medals that reward those who recite, those who are able to recite with more devotion, with a better saying, with the greatest of passions, Article 2 of the Spanish Constitution, that speaks of the sacred unity of the homeland, and that at times you deny, in the new rule that you want, that you would walk them like a ring to the saying..., that you deny the option of rebre cape decoration the ones that one day they had the wrong thought of putting a groceries in the flap of the American. But they're wrong. If his idea of Sant Jordi's creus is to create a standard mark for decorating the police who have taken away the 1st of October, who have taken away all of us; if you want to decorate the Marchena and Llarena courts, in Perez de los Cobos, the creators of the '' onto them, or if it is done, you see, to give a distinction to the honorable king of 155, the king who has been stripped and who has no noses to tell him that he has been stripped, therefore, do not count with us. You're wrong. Oh, you feel like you're comin'! Catalonia is the birth of Pau Casals and not the country where the militia is punishing donkeys and swimming pools. You're still there, arresting donkeys and swimming pools, and now also poking around proposing regulations for the Sant Jordi hollows. We build, we build the country with another mindset. Catalonia is built every day with an extended and generous gaze. This country is diu Catalunya, a country, posin-s 'hoal cap, a country of sum. And in this country is given the creus of Sant Jordi from the year 81, and is awarded Paco Candel, Carlos Barral, Lázaro Carreter, Charlie Rivel, Ibáñez and Escofet, Núria Espert – does it seem good? – but also Tete Montoliu, also Raimon Galí, Leo Messi – yes, Leo Messi – MP Núria Picas – congratulated, Núria! – the Gemma Mengual, the Miquel Valls, the Carme Chacón – does it look good to you? – not to mention the entities, which go from the Cadí Cooperative to the people who work against Alzheimer's. This country is polyhedric; this diversity is our wealth, and the country acts with these values. Before this reality they can do two things: u, celebrate the country's power, or well, the other option – and this will allow Ciutadan and the Popular Party to continue having 0.004_percent of the country's mayors –, second option, they can continue to be obsessed, punishing donkeys and swimming pools, rewarding fucking shots, toga shots, and now obsessed with the Cree of Sant Jordi. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.194.0	To pronounce on the exams, has the word now the MP Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.195.0	Thank you, President. The first thing I'd like to do is a toilet for the president of this chamber. He has not called to order, Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure, in relation to Articles 14 and 17 of the Rules of Procedure, and even with the agreement of the Board of Spokesmen of this Parliament, on the insults to former Members of this House by a parliamentary representative of the CUP. Or is it allowed to be said that Mr. Enric Millo is a torturer in this chamber?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.196.0	In any case, we won't get into a controversy right now, Congresswoman. I'm done and then...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.197.0	No, no, I'm asking you to call the order and have this member of the CUP rectified who has been captivated by Mr. Millo of torturer in this House.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.198.0	Go on, Congresswoman, and when I'm done, I'll speak. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.199.0	It's indecent that this room doesn't respect...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.200.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.201.0	...not only the Rules of Parliament but also the agreements of the Board of Spokesmen, which are granted by the consent of all the parliamentary Spokesmen of this chamber. In this chamber... – I don't care if I run out all the time – this chamber was told to an ex-parliamentary and called it "torturer." And that's inadmissible – inadmissible. I'll go back to the presidency and ask the deputy who served this expression to order, please. [[Pause.]] Well, we'll do the relevant actions. I should tell you something. Seeing the reaction that separatist groups have had to this simple – simple – motion, we already know what criteria you make to decorate your own. That's it, to decorate yours, because you'll tell me what Mr. Nelson Mandela has to do with Mrs. Núria de Gispert. It's just a joke, it's almost a joke. Look, I am not at all surprised that you do not respect social and political pluralism from the institutions. And you know why? Because they've been doing it for years. But, moreover, yesterday, in the simple renewal of a parliamentary table, the election of that renewal of the members of the Bureau was less serious than the election of a class delegate from a primary school.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.202.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. As he referred to how not only the Rules apply, but also to the agreement of the parliamentary groups, he said that this Presidency applied it every time it thought appropriate, every time there was some expression that was not appropriate, not just to the Rules but to this agreement. And in this case – and I invite, not just you, but at the assembly of the Members, to review the minutes and the videos of the interventions – what you say is not appropriate to what we have been able to hear, at least to what I have been able to hear, and therefore I did not consider it appropriate to apply – and therefore to cry to order – the agreement. In any case, I invite you, Mrs García – I will also do so – to review the plenary minutes and the videos, and you will see – at least this, I insist, is what I have understood – that what you said does not exactly fit what you went through and what the honourable Member has said. [[Pause. Esperanza García González asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Garcia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.203.0	Yes; president, look, with all due respect, it is you who must review, yourself, this recording and this statement made by Mr. Riera, because I have heard it and therefore ask him to intervene, and not me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.204.0	We've all heard it, Mrs. Garcia; as much as you have, I myself. And I'm reaffirming myself. All right... [[Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Martin? [[Pause.]] Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.205.0	In fact, for a question of contradictions with Mr. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.206.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.207.0	And maybe I'm wrong, too, and you're going to have to see the facts, but he said, he talked about his home, referring to the groups that support this motion for a resolution. I don't know, Mr. Riera, what's your home, but I have very clear who's my home, home of all my associates, of the PSC's lords, of the People's Party..., we have very clear who's our home. Therefore, you do not go outside, do not continue with this sectarian attitude of making out of Catalonia those who do not think with you. Our house is this. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.208.0	We're calling it a vote. [[Carles Riera Albert asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Riera, I imagine by allusions... thirty seconds, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.209.0	It is obvious, to ask for the word for allusions. If you look at the recording in detail, you will probably be able to see that I referred to "his house as his political parties and I have also noticed" the institutions of the State that you defend and legitimise – in this sense I said "his house, and I refer to it –; institutions that historically did not shake their hands, I think I said, literally, at the time of decorating torturers, and I added: "and more to honor Mr. Millo, for an agreement of the PP and the PSOE. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.210.0	We called for a vote. [[Long break.]] Is there a separate motion for a vote on this motion? Don't you? [[Pause.]] We shall proceed to the vote on this motion. There was no request for a separate vote. Therefore, we will vote on the joint motion. The vote begins. This young man was rejected by 56 votes in favour, 64 against and 8 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into violations of citizens' right to vote abroad]] [[302-00105/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government about the violations of citizens' right to vote abroad, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word the deputy lady Marta Vilalta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.211.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. We present this motion on the violations of the citizens' right to vote abroad; some violations of law that exist above all from the reform of the LOREG of the year 2011, but that we have recently seen as very valid these violations of the right to vote by Catalans and Catalans, but in general by citizens living abroad, to our country. Without going any further, on the 28th of April, to take the elections of which we have all the data, only 11.96 of the Catalans residing abroad preached the vote, and of these, only 7.71_per_cent ended up voting. While here in Catalonia there was a high turnout, a turnout of 77.58_per_cent, these figures, these figures of the turnout of 7_per_cent, but they turn around the turnout of 5, 6, 7_per_cent since there was the vote preached with this modification of the LOREG, are very far away from those figures of percentage participation that return 30_per_cent of the Catalans residing abroad, which there were precisely of this reform, as I said. The voting system, therefore, is a system that does not work. And we're not just complaining about it, or we're talking about it here, but what's worse... that it doesn't work out that it's hurting itself and violating a right as important as the right to vote, a right as important as the right to vote. Moreover, there is a sequence of drawbacks: the limited management terms, which make it difficult to participate; the presence forced on some of the consulates; the little information or the little clarity in their processing or expenses at the time of making a few journeys, that discriminate against them, because they are added and that they are not a journey to make the citizen who resides in Catalonia. All these drawbacks are that we cannot exercise this fundamental and democratic right as we would like, as close as possible. That's why for a long time various organizations, various movements – without going any further, Granate Sea – but also the different parties represented here, many of which we call for a law reform, which ends with this system of voting and which, therefore, make the necessary changes in the system, in terms of electoral information, with transparency measures and auditing of this electoral process. That's why we made this inquiry to Councilman Bosch in the last plenary – to whom, of course, we apologize, because today, unfortunately, cannot be there – and we present this young man. A young man who has put it simply, with two points, to put a thread to the needle at the time of being able to finish with this prayerful vote and, therefore, to be able to make a procedure that is much more agile and that facilitates and guarantees this exercise of the right of participation, that therefore ends with this prayerful vote, because, as we have said, it makes political participation difficult and discriminates, because it has been required for people from outside, who are residing outside, that it is not for the people who are residing here in Catalonia. As I said, a simple, two-pointed motion, the first of which is to condemn this limitation on the right of Catalans to vote outside. And one_second point, that what it does is to urge, through the Government of Catalonia, the Government of the State that you do to what is its competence, because as we speak of the LOREG, it is the competence of the State. So, what you're doing to what we think you have to do, which is that I changed this system. And, in this case, at point 2 first, we ask that the vote preached is suppressed, as it violates the right to political participation; and, at the second point of this point 2, what we ask is that it pushes a new procedure that is simpler and more agile, such as electronic voting, and that guarantees and facilitates, therefore, the right of the Catalans to vote abroad. In this young man, therefore, we believe that we can find many and many of us, because it is obvious that many times we have demanded it, and as long as we put ourselves to work, that we put thread to the needle so that there will be no return to these violations or restrictions of rights. Before I finish, and then I'll mention it again... but I do want to thank those parliamentary groups that have submitted papers. We will not accept the message of the Socialists and Unity Party to advance because we believe that it is clearer as we say and not better, although we know that we share the essence of this injustice of the vote preached, and we do not accept Ciutadan's statements, in this case because most of them are not objected to by the young man or are precisely in the line of battle, of restricting rights, instead of preserving them and guaranteeing them. Then I will refer to it, probably also through his interventions, but I reiterate the will of this young man, who can afford the maximum amount of support, because what is asked many times has generated consensus. So let's get to work, because we're talking about rights, about phone rights that we want to guarantee, we want you not to violate rights. Therefore, they must be encouraged, they must not be discouraged as the voting system preached. And, in any case, ending with a last message: less persecuting people who put ballot boxes and more promoting the right of speech...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.212.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.213.0	...that you're voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.214.0	Thank you. To defend the papers presented has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr David Pérez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.215.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, effectively, we agree on the diagnosis and we agree on the cent_per_cent on the diagnosis on the subject of the vote preached. The reform that was carried out, in 2011, was primarily trying to add transparency – and, in fact, it succeeded –, to end the fraud and the manipulation that could be done with the vote of the people who were part of the CERA. But, indeed, we did achieve this, but, for another band, we complicated the system so much that..., this patent of terms, the need to preach the vote, the need to duplicate the processes and this increase in delays and this lack of information made the system so complicated that it might have been worse than the disease. I think Gerard Gómez del Moral here perfectly explained the data of what low participation meant. And we agree on the diagnosis, but we have a different procedure to try to solve the issue. And, in fact, we have proposed to the Congress of Deputies a proposal for an organic law reform of the LOREG for the precise regulation of the voting exercise of the Spaniards who see the foreigner. We've done it with the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United States We can, in common we can, and it was signed by Irene Montero and the lady also Carolina Bescansa. And, indeed, this change that we proposed from LOREG solves the problem and solves it very clearly. If you do not want to vote, you will no longer need to preach the vote, you will not need to double the terms, you will not need to have this enlargement, so the terms are much wider, allow the vote in person and above all also allow the vote by mail, which is a need that we also see very clear and very obvious. Who is the main difference between you and us? Very simple, that we do not see the electronic vote. And, if I may, you have named the Granite Sea here. Granate doesn't agree with the electronic vote either – he doesn't agree with the electronic vote – as well as with the contributions that Granate has made on the vote. We're on the same page for 100 percent, but say that electronic voting is not the best solution. Why? Because at this point in Europe Estonia is only asking for the possibility of electronic voting in elections, and with difficult problems, with very difficult problems. As of November 2017, 750,000 counterfeit digital certificates were discovered in Estonia's elections. Many countries of the rest of the world began to use this system and have already withdrawn it: Brazil, United States, Venice, Philippines, India. All with irregularities and possibility of attacks. And, in this case, to European countries with France, Belgium, Italy and also Switzerland, Canada, Austria have tried to implement it partially, but they have not managed to settle the electronic vote due to the risk of cyber attacks. At the committee of this Parliament on electoral law we have talked with many experts about this possibility and no one – no one – has raised the possibility that there will be a 100% guarantee of the use of electronic voting. It is in this sense that we, this possibility of electronic voting, and also following some of the recommendations made by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, argue that this is not a good possibility. I insist, for reasons of cybersecurity, of attacking electoral data, and above all the impossibility that we all have of verifying that this procedure is true or not. It is a fact that it facilitates a private company, a private company that can, of course, relate to any area of government. In short, even if we agree with the diagnosis, we will vote against the given motion that we have several differences in the solution of the problem. But yes, let me be clear, we are against the possibility of solving the issue with the electronic vote; two, we are in favour of suppressing the prayed vote; three, of sending the papers to all the people of the CERA, therefore, to the whole file, to the whole universe, and four, the extension of terms so as to facilitate the face vote and also the vote by mail. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.216.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Susana Beltrán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.217.0	Thank you. Well, this young man is talking about violations of the rights of political participation and from this perspective, the Ciutadans Group agrees that we can reform, replace the vote, because it is a system that affects the rights of political participation of citizens abroad, not only of Catalans, but of the conjunction of Spanish citizenship abroad. And that is why, since the Congress of Deputies, I hope that this legislature will succeed, because it is an authentic calvary, to be able to modify, all folded, the vote preached. Now, on the understanding that in this young man, who is in violation of rights of political participation, there is no condemnation of personal data thefts on October 1st, and that Catalans were deceived by a supposed right of vote, which we did not have, in an illegal referendum. Congresswoman, do you think the personal data thief is a universal right? I think he'll be with me who's not a universal right and in a different way you don't condemn him. On the other hand, in this case you, who speak of violation of rights of political participation, do not condemn the violations of the rights of political participation of the Members of the Opposition on 6 and 7 September 2017. We don't understand. Historical memory, which is so important for the citizenry and democratic regeneration, also of Catalan society, has value for what it passed two years ago, it has value for what it passed on September 6th and 7th of 2017. Why do you not explain to the citizenry, for example, that the decision of the European Court of Human Rights two days ago endorses the performance of the Constitutional Court, which protected the rights of political participation of Members of the Opposition against the abuse of the separatist parliamentary majority of this Parliament? Why don't they tell the truth? Why don't they explain? Yesterday, President Torra, the president of all the Catalans, made a resolution, an opinion of a working group that is not so much the voice of the United Nations Organization, and made this resolution a must for Spain and that if it does not complete this Spanish resolution it is violating international norms and obligations. That's lying – that's lying. But it's that, besides, the president of all Catalans, who is full of advisors... they also know. But it's also very easy, it's not a question of knowing international law or not knowing international law, it's a question of reading, it's as simple as reading. The opinion, which is an opinion, which is not a decision, which is not a judgment, which is an opinion of a working group, literally says: "With regard to the recommendations made in this opinion – ‘recommendations, recommendations' – ‘the Government is invited to inform the working group – ‘it is invited, not required' – is very clear. Then, if the president's advisors of all Catalans also know this – and, besides, anyone can find it on the official website of the United Nations – they see that this is not a compliment and they see that this is merely a recommendation, it's because they're deceiving the city's conjunction. And that can't be – that can't be. In order not to explain, I insist, that the European Court of Human Rights..., the decision that it took scarcely two days ago is binding, is the last judicial institution, and that it endorsed the Constitutional Court and its action in protecting the rights of the city council before the coup to the state of law and democracy that is Spain. Why don't they explain? If they really want to guarantee the political participation rights of all citizens, don't fool the citizens. They make a democratic gesture and apologize, they apologize on 6th and 7th of September 2017. I, uh, already posed, huh? , helps that both in the Parliament of Catalonia and in the Congress of Deputies the vote of all citizens is equal and is respected equally. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.218.0	On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr. Francesc of Dalmases has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.219.0	Thank you, President. A couple of weeks ago, before these last two elections we had, in this same Faristol, contesting a motion from Ciutadans, I ended up saying: "With the words of President Puigdemont: "In Europe and Catalonia we will persist and win. It's my place to count us on the eve of May 26th, because we'll talk about municipalities, about Europe, and we'll do it with the ballot boxes. Urnes and Europe; in hard taste: play the house and win. And we've already counted; it's been 26, we've counted. President Puigdemont, 1,045,011 votes, papers of those who did not want them to be in jail; Vice President Junqueras, 765,617 votes; more than 50_percent of independent votes, votes for the dialect, for democracy, for the republic, who did not prevent the block of 155– Ciutadans, Socialists, People's Party – from sending a letter to the President of the European Parliament, because they think there is someone who believes that he can be a deputy or not. But it's that free Europe and the democracies that believe are these hundreds of thousands of votes. Therefore, on that occasion I said that they do not make the ridiculous; they try not to repeat the ridiculous now, but I see that they persist. In any case, these votes, which are many, which are many, are not all, for many reasons. There are many people who have lived among us for many years and have no right to vote, but this is another debate that we will have to have another day. Today we are talking about Catalans and Catalans who are out by will or by obligation and who have no more reason to preach in order to be able to vote. And despite praying, they couldn't do it. In that later intervention at the Faristol, I ended up directing to Ciutadans and I said to them: "Unless I know it, when we win, you will win too. And this motion that the Republican Group is presenting to us today – thanks, Mrs Marta Vilalta, for how we have been able to deal with and accept our proposals for better, and which, therefore, we will vote in its totality favorably – went precisely from this, because when we respect and promote essential democratic principles we win all; when we place the ballots, the votes and the people we vote in the epicentre of our democratic system, and we protect them in the place of atoning them, we win all. No political forces in this Parliament can be satisfied with the vote. Bukowski said the difference between democracy and dictatorship is that in democracy they allow them to vote before they obey. Bukowski was a provocateur; but actually what makes our democratic system strong is what we do between voting and voting, but finally it all starts voting – it all starts voting. And, therefore, what we need to do is protect and promote this vote as much as possible. Because when we vote in Catalonia, also from the outside, it's for. And it is not by chance that the external voting system is so difficult and so complicated for the Spanish State. This same hemisphere, which emerged from the elections of 21 December, takes into account the external vote, the CUP, the Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia have 54,15_percent of the vote, and we get – we get – which seems to be a lot, that there is an 11,94_percent of the external vote. On the other hand, in elections as popular as European elections, the external vote was only 8.23_per_cent. Voting is a right; the rights are exercised and are not prayed to the State. We are in the 21st century, and the leaders of the Spanish State, the leaders of this voting system preached, some of them said: "We have to bear in mind that there are countries that the postal system is very complicated. 21st century; we are talking about voting, democracy, we are saying that the difficulty is the postal system of some country. Look, the vote is a failure, and therefore it's also a democratic fraud. I was told by TV3's correspondent to the Russian Federation. There are two thousand citizens with a Spanish passport to the Russian Federation. Do you know how many people have tried to vote? One-hundred-seven. Do you know how many have finally been able to vote? One. These are the figures of the vote. We do know where we want to go – and it seems to us that it is a war against time, against progress –: the electronic vote will be a reality. It is obvious that our children and our nets laugh when we tell them that we were doubting whether the electronic vote was the future. Someone says that if the banks allow us to take money from their bank and put it in another electronically, how can we not vote? Therefore, I assure you that this will be the system. But you can also do things that are much easier and that you all know. We need to be able to print the papers and send them; we don't have to wait for the days when the papers arrive. We did the October 1st, and it was a roundabout success, for sure. Point it 'ho. In the same way that the society and the governments obey, in order to vote the vote must be able to exercise and must not be preached or asked. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.220.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to fix his position has the word in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.221.0	Thank you. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. I would also like to welcome the nine Members who have joined. And, unlike other interventions I've heard, I went to talk about the content of the motion and not about other things, because there came a time when I thought I was wrong about the order of the day. In 2016, the Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament addressed a letter to the Congress with the intention of conveying its concern for the system of voting prepared and encouraging it to change its legislation so that it can guarantee the democratic rights of the citizenry that it sees outside the limits of the Spanish State. But the fact is that, since the reform of the LOREG in 2011, the participation of residents and persons residing in the foreigner has fallen in more than twenty-five points, and the vote preached is clear that it has been a complete failure, above all a failure for those people who have been forced to emigrate for economic reasons outside Catalonia, also outside the rest of Spain, because of the context of labor and wage precariousness, who, above all, have to overcome a whole series of crossings, impediments and obstacles in order to be able to exercise the main right of representative democracy, which is the right to vote. That's to say, you don't just want to vote, but more often than not you have to make a giant amount of time, terms and paperwork to be able to exercise something as basic as the right to vote. In fact, it is curious that precisely those who, with their policies of pre-charitability, detail and austerity, have expelled many of these people who have once legislated because these people cannot exercise their right to vote, surely because they are too happy that they do not have to be with those governments that have made them out and because surely the votes of these people may not go to the governments, to the party that is to the government that has made them out. So, in fact, party logic, tea; democratic logic, not tea. And that's more than obvious. It is a race of obstacles that has reduced the demand for the vote of residents abroad to just over 8_per_cent, and that even in the case that the vote is called for in the term setting the guarantee of being able to exercise the right to vote is very low. And that we saw thanks to the two electoral campaigns and the two elections we recently had; as the networks were filled with tweets, and Facebook, and Instagram, and at all events, saying that the papers did not arrive, that the papers did not arrive, and messages said "they arrived at the last moment, "so that I could vote, "so that I could vote, or even all the people who had the right to vote, and that, as they could not exercise, they had to extricate themselves from the mechanism that there was a vote with people who opted for abstention, and that at last it had to be done. And that, people who may be living in Greece, we're not talking about people who live in a remote part of the Ecuadorian jungle, who still have it much harder, I can assure you. However, it is important to place ourselves at the moment when we are and the time we were a few months ago, and that there was actually a proposal for reform of the Electoral Law that suppressed the vote preached; a proposal that was put to rest once and for all at the Congress Bureau, blocked by the People's Party and Citizens, in this case; a proposal that has more than just remained in the tinter, because, as there has been a call for advanced elections, all these projects will have to be resumed. So what we would like is to have the compromise of the forces in this House, as much as they vote as they don't vote, because when this process comes to Congress we are still able to put all of us to one to eliminate once and for all the absurd democratic that is the prepared vote and to move forward in order to guarantee the right to vote of all people abroad. We are in favour of electronic voting. We believe that we cannot go from the stage to modernity, because we must be more aware of what is the reality of people living outside Catalonia and outside Spain. It's not always close to a console, it's not always easy to transport, mail systems don't always work. It is much easier to access an internet system than to access it by road or by mail to be able to exercise the right to vote. Mechanisms and necessary safeguards must be implemented. Errors need to be learned where it was implemented and it didn't work, and it just has to move forward. Hi, we're in the 21st century, we're at the age of technology, and we need to be able to apply it on the right to vote. We've been asked a little attention that at the end of the day, a motion that was about voting was being prepared that would also extend to the subject of passive suffrage. We didn't think it was the context of the young man either. But, well, we will defend him equally, because, effectively, if you guarantee the right to the active vote, the passive vote must be equally guaranteed for all those who live outside Catalonia. But, we insist, we believe that the compromise of this chamber, of all strength, should move forward towards the elimination of the vote preached, because this benefits all persons residing abroad, as it happens, come from where they come and vote to whom they vote. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.222.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Deputy Carles Riera, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.223.0	Thank you, President. Well, look, since 2016, we haven't been there much in the data collection, but it's already obvious that more than 90 percent of people abroad can't exercise their right to vote. This is an unacceptable democratic fracture, absolutely intolerable: it is a completely democratic failure. And what turns out is that, as Catalonia does not have its own electoral law, we do not have a central electoral board that has the obligation to aggregate and centralize the data for countries from which the vote has taken place, but this is made more difficult by the fact that the Government Department, which is ours, if not ours, is not making a big effort to systematize the collection of this information and to know who the actual participation data are and its distribution. They are entities such as the FIEC or Catalans al Món, the civil society, which has to fill this task that the Government of the Generality should do at the level of Governance, at the level of Interior, at the level of the Department of Foreign Affairs, and that is not being done. And that's also a system problem, huh? But for what it does already in concrete terms to the proposals of the motion, say that it must be precise in that we also demand the repeal of Articles 42 and 75 of the LOREG. It should be borne in mind that 42 repeats the terms of the election campaign from fifty-four to forty-seven days. It seems that this is an important problem for external participation, for all the processing of external participation. And, on the other hand, it may also be recalled that the preliminary draft law in discussion in Parliament stated in its first article that the electronic vote was implemented following the one at the disposal of 75 of the LOREG, which is the one that instituted the vote. If the 75 of the LOREG is repealed, then the Catalan law of electronic voting will have to be revised, it will have to be reconsidered accordingly. And finally, and as soon as it's over, at the time the CUP has already been presented in the last legislature – we can update it – reviews of the draft electronic voting law in which we speak not only of electronic voting, but also of electronic facilities. In this sense, there are some measures, such as the automatic discharge of paper, which may be included in the decree calling for elections without amending the LOREG. Therefore, listen, to guarantee the external vote; this requires legislative changes at macro level, implications of the Catalan Administration that are not occurring, and obviously assume a conflict with the State, which wants to limit democratic rights that we in our country must defend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.224.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Finally, on behalf of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Daniel Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.225.0	Thank you, Vice President. The truth is that the requested vote has become in recent years the center of the controversy, and there is no lack of reason for it, because since its installation participation abroad has fallen drastically. And it must also be said that the reason why the requested vote was instituted was because of the continuous fraud that was taking place abroad in the issuing of the external vote. And it must also be said that this conclusion is not that the perfidious government of Mariano Rajoy came; the government of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero arrived, and that it counted on the votes of the Socialist Party, the People's Party, the former Convergence i Unió and the Basque Nationalist Party. I do not think that these parties were thinking at that time of making life impossible for Catalans who were living abroad; it was that there was a problem and an attempt was made to put the precise instruments to solve it. Having said that, it is true that the requirements for the issuance of the requested vote do not facilitate the participation of Spaniards residing abroad. Ara, from this to deduce that some political parties are more or less harmed by this system, for I think it is too much to deduce. I think you have the gift of guessing what the Spanish vote abroad; I say to you: the People's Party has won in several general elections the vote abroad. We too could be harmed by such a system. But we don't, no; we don't make a victimist speech, but we just think that the system has to change it, but not deduce from it a victimist speech. And I speak of Spaniards abroad, of all Spaniards. The system does not harm Spaniards from one autonomous community but those from another; that is, it does not harm Catalans more than Galicians, it harms all Spaniards abroad. There's no conspiracy to make life for the Spaniards abroad. We therefore believe that reforms should be introduced in the issuing of the external vote, but with guarantees: that it guarantees identity, that it guarantees secret voting and that it also guarantees that the vote is freely issued. And electronic voting, unfortunately, is not a solution. There may be alternative solutions: expanding the voting centers, extending the time limits..., but repealing the requested vote and returning to Pandora's box that was previously the previous system, we do not share it and that is why we are going to vote against the motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.226.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy Marta Vilalta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.227.0	Well, thank you very much. As we say, this was a motion submitted for the Republican Parliamentary Group, so as to guarantee rights, so that these rights are respected and that they are not violated, and so that they can give the view to everyone. And, despite the fact that there is a general consensus, instead of putting into value this point of finding, this consensus that exists so as to say that the vote preached does not work, we will see how there are parliamentary groups seeking excuses not to vote in favour of this motion. Anyway, that's all right, we'll still be working there. And when you get approved, then we will work because, effectively, as Mrs Segovia said, this can be a reality as quickly as possible. Anyway, we've seen the Ciutadans Group, haven't we? , come here thinking that maybe we're still in an election campaign, putting the autopilot of the usual speeches and talking about issues that are not the object of the motion. They have taken advantage of an important opportunity to talk about electronic voting, to talk about respect in the right of vote, in this case, to talk about other things in this sense. I, therefore, know hard, say, what a disprofit this time. In any case, we do not accept them, as we say, because they make some unfounded accusations or, in some way, they say that there has been no guarantee in legal proceedings that have taken place in other voting procedures, such as that of trade camres. And what we see at the end is that when you don't like a vote, you try to delegitimize it. And that, then, can't be, can't win the jutjats that's not won in the ballot box. In any case, they say that the Government of the Generality should apologize, in any case, related to the topic of international observers, among others. We do want to put the magnifying glass at the international level so that all these violations of rights are known, because then things happen that, precisely this week, a United Nations working group, the Arbitrary Detention Working Group, actually, said that prisoners should be free and, therefore, said that they should be held... and literally...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.228.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.229.0	... the working group – I finish, president – asked the Government of Spain to take the necessary measures to remedy this situation. That's literally what you're saying. And so, maybe those are the ones who have to apologize.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.230.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.231.0	...that they are accomplices to repression and the violation of rights. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.232.0	Thank you. We called for a vote. Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] Don't you? Well, then we'll vote on the joint motion in a single vote. The vote begins. The motion following the question to the Government on violations of the citizens' right to vote abroad has been approved by 71 votes in favour, 53 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into territorial mobility]] [[302-0106/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on mobility in the territory, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To defend it has the word of Congressman Francisco Javier Domínguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.233.0	Today we come to talk about Tarragona, about mobility in Tarragona. The entry into service of the Vandellòs variant is imminent, or at least so they say. This will affect train users in Tarragona, and this government must act now. Corrective: gentlemen of the government, you should already have the duties done – which, by the way, you are not. The Mediterranean Corridor is a good project, but Tarragona and nearby populations need to incorporate themselves and not stay off the map. It is the responsibility of this Government to have prepared an alternative transport plan for when the line between Cambrils and Tarragona is interrupted. And it is also your responsibility to have very well defined the tram train project. Neither of these two things are done. Even though they did the monotheme of the process, they do worry. In this motion, the Citizens' Group urges the Government to work on mobility in Tarragona. This government must improve the connection between the stations of Tarragona city and that of the AVE. It must be an agile, sufficient and reliable transport. Currently, the bus service is not coordinated with train schedules, and the user must anticipate more than forty_minutes. But it's forty_minutes to use a high-speed service. That's too many. You must change the situation of the taxi and work on the unification of the service at Camp de Tarragona. The goal would be to improve the service and moderate the price of the taxi, as we have the most expensive taxis in all of Spain. It should provide affordable parking in the surroundings of the AVE station. There are several possibilities to correct this parking problem: low cost parking, ticket bonuses... Explore and look for the best solution. This Government must optimise public transport resources through the Tarragona Camp ATM; mobility must be understood and managed in a comprehensive manner. This government must guarantee train frequencies between Tarragona and Barcelona. Tarragona users cannot lose performance precisely when infrastructure is being improved with the variant. People do their life plans, among other things, according to the mobility available, and many families have decided to stay in Tarragona or come to live for the ease of moving to Barcelona; we cannot tell you now that they will have fewer trains. For the same reason, you must also guarantee mobility in the coastal stations between Cambrils and Sant Vicenç de Calders, Salou, Altafulla and Torredembarra. For all this, this Government must have an alternative transport plan, the day after the variant ceases to operate the coastal route. About the tram train. It is already time to formally request the transfer of the freed land, which has not been done. In addition, citizens deserve to know when the famous tram train will come into operation. We have been familiar with the Vandellòs variant project for twenty years and, despite this delay, this government has nothing prepared for the tram; that is, in the territory there is much talk about the tram train, there is much talk about it, but very little is said and, today, we do not have a timetable even close to the tram train. With regard to high speed. This government must negotiate with the Government of Spain both the Avant that connect the future station of Prat airport with Lleida, Tarragona and Girona as well as the Avant between Lleida and Zaragoza. We already know that it is not the competence of the Generalitat, but this government must lead these negotiations, must defend the interests of the citizens and must defend mobility in Tarragona. And finally, with respect to T-Mobility. This government must report when the T-Mobilitat will be implemented and, as we are talking about Tarragona, it must report when the T-Mobilitat will reach us, when it will reach the second metropolitan area of Catalonia. It must also be transparent with this issue of T-Mobilitat; it must facilitate a relationship between the related public contracts, the changes that have been made to them and the amounts. How much is this T-Mobility costing us? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.234.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented has the word, in the first place, the deputy Jordi Terrades, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.235.0	Thank you, President. Not so many days ago, just on 9 April of Enguany, the Government of the Government of Catalonia and the Government of Spain arrived at a principle of agreement to have a full single route to address the railway infrastructure at Camp de Tarragona; a meeting in which, moreover, several mayors took part: that of Tarragona, that of Reus, the Mayor of Cambrils, the Mayor of Vila-seca, and that of Salou. It's true, the performances that... And, therefore, this young man who presents us today Ciutadans – who I suppose was also there..., on the path of the elections that are celebrated diumenge–, many of the things that are planted with us were already marked at that meeting that was produced – again – on April 9. And it is certain that the actions that are being carried out in the Corridor of the Mediterranean, the inn above all the Vandellòs-Tarragona variant, will imply a new configuration of the railway infrastructures that will affect, basically, the municipalities of Camp de Tarragona. Some of the actions that are raised in this motion were also incorporated – all of you know it – into the draft assumptions that the Government of Spain presented at the Congress of Deputies and that enthusiastically so much Ciutadans, as Junts per Catalunya, as Esquerra Republicana voted against. The new Government of Spain – when elected – will bring back to the Congress of Deputies the assumptions and will put forward these investments, which already collected in your day the project that was not approved, and we hope from you – I do not know if from all of you, but from some of you – a different attitude, that will allow or allow some of the proposals that today I am convinced that we will approve in this plenary of the Parliament of Catalonia. Because we're also talking about the fight... – here we are talking about – we're also talking about the fight against climate change and reducing emissions. And, basically, it means that in our own time, in our own years, we have to make a determined bet, a strong investment in the electrification of transport, and that happens, obviously, basically, to powerful investments in the railway sector. But some of these investments and, above all, some of the services that you are putting in place... – and in this sense, our papers, which could not at the end of the day be transactions, but I am already announcing that we will vote in favour of them – above all you serve us, I believe that they cannot be addressed without careful consideration of objective criteria that support them, basically, referring to the minimum benefits that these services must have; those relating to coverage, recurrence and other factors that, from our point of view, are essential and that relate to social aspects and to territorial cohesion and to the economic and social return of these investments. Therefore, this analysis of viability that we have proposed and that in the end we have not just found the exact formula to incorporate it into the text of the motion that will be approved. Why does a viability analysis need to be done? Because Member Domínguez knows perfectly well that the programme contract between the General Administration of the State and Renfe will have to be changed, a programme contract that went until 2027 and that, therefore, all these issues must be made clear. From all points of view, as I said at the outset, the Ministry of Development and the Territorial and Sustainability Council have already created an agency to... – as at least in the Ministry this went ahead – a coordination committee has been set up to analyse these new railway activities at Camp Tarragona to get to the goal that we all want, which is that they go ahead. And, very quickly, in these fifteen_seconds that I remain, on the subject of T-Mobility, we will give support to two points, because we are five years late respecting its in-service in-house and it is time that the Government is clearly committed to its in-service in-house in-house.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.236.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Raquel Sans has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.237.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable Councillor; Secretary of Infrastructures, Mr Gavín; Members, Members, first of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank Mr Domínguez, with whom we usually coincide on the regional train to come to Parliament, and with whom we have been able to negotiate and negotiate various items, together with Mr Campdepadrós. And we have arrived, I would say, at a fairly broad agreement, with a close look at the metropolitan area of Camp de Tarragona. A very necessary look. When we talk about railway and airport infrastructure, its connectivity, the strategic role to be played in the country's neighbourhood, we have the impression that we are late, very late. And it's late to say that we've lost very important opportunities at Camp Tarragona and that we need to redouble our efforts to recover land. Recovering land goes so far as to be able to agree political positions that wander far beyond immediate needs and short-term electoral commitments and strictly local positions. Therefore, here we all have a responsibility. Mirin, the Camp of Tarragona is the second metropolitan area of the country, with more than 500,000 inhabitants and with important problems of mobility that, in large part, answer to a harmful planning of the infrastructures to the territory by the Government of the State. If we enter the body of the young man, the first points refer to the EVA station. In this sense, we share a good part of your thoughts, but I would like to take advantage of my intervention to remember how we got here, because we do not have to forget that most of these mobility difficulties that we are experiencing today are due to the fact that we have located a station in the middle of the no-res, thirty kilometers from Tarragona city. From the moment we arrive at the station, to be able to park there are problems that users skate every day. In fact, in the case of the parking lot, we only have two alternatives: either we leave the car to the parking lot for payment, at a cost of approximately 24_euros per day, or we park on a road without lighting or areas enabled for travellers, with all the dangers that this entails, especially in the winter, when at five o'clock it is already dark. In fact, this young man is talking about making it easier for parking areas to be enabled around the station. In this sense, I'd like to replete that the Sequita Assembly has been working on it for days. The year 2017, the assembly acquired some land two-hundred_metres from the season and is currently carrying out the corresponding urban process in order to be able to create a parking lot with capacity of six-hundred places, with which this problem would be solved. So, the local administration is who at this point is doing this job, solving people's real problems, which is what this is all about, isn't it? In change, we will vote against point number 2. We believe that the creation of a metropolitan area of the taxi deserves a deeper reflection and not just talk about the current restrictions to the camp station. On the other hand, we have also reached an agreement in most points that make reference to providing a better comprehensive transport service through the Territorial Authority of Camp Tarragona. We're very much in agreement. In fact, from our group we bet clearly for this metropolitan transport visit and, precisely, in this key, the metropolitan key, we found to be lacking, for example, that you refer to the connections between Reus, Cambrils or Valls with the Estació de Camp de Tarragona, because in this young man it is only about the connections with Tarragona city. And we also believe that you were interested in some reference to the bad rail connections that the towns of Valls or Montblanc have with Barcelona. Actually, the subject is scandalous. We also share the need that the Ministry of Development pass without delay the lands released with the inn in the march of the Vandellòs railway, in order to be able to develop the train tram, a means of transport that counts with the agreement of the territory and that we hope that it can be a reality well soon to improve not only the internal connections, but also to reduce the time of travel to Barcelona. But you are asking for a realistic and concrete calendar in three months, and here we cannot vote in favour, because, frankly, this is very complicated, not to say impossible. What we can say is that the department has entrusted the General Railways with the impulse of the bid of the information study, and once we have this information study, we can make this calendar more concrete. Finally, we would like to thank Ciutadans for this motion and we will place them, in this case at the Congress, who will accompany us, who will accompany the Government of the Generality in the claims in the cloister of territories, because there is a lot of work to do. And it is important that from the territory, but also from the Parliament of Catalonia, we put pressure on those who are close – which unfortunately is still Madrid – in order to improve the infrastructure of the Camp de Tarragona. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.238.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.239.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Councillor, Councillor, we cannot count on the presence of the Territorial Councillor, but we do count on the presence – and gratitude – of the Government here, of the Secretary of Infrastructures and Mobility, Mr Gavín, to whom we greet. And it's hard for us not to count, as you liked, with the presence of Councilman Rull, currently an unjustly suspicious MP, who had always heard him say that he wanted independence not to talk about flags, but about reelers. Therefore, this would be a topic that would be of particular interest to you. In the subject we are now discussing, around the station known as the AVE station in Camp de Tarragona, it must be made clear that this is precisely the consequence of the situation of dependence. It is a consequence, precisely, that decisions are taken at six-cents_kilometres, regardless of the needs of the territory. And, indeed, the station there, unfortunately, as Congresswoman Sans put it, is a station that is at the middle of Tarragona Camp and completely disconnected, and very poorly connected to what are the most important urban centers of Tarragona, Reus and also Valls, Vendrell, Cambrils. It's absolutely... And precisely, these decisions taken at a distance... precisely, having a state close to it is for these things, to take decisions in the form closest to the city and taking into account the needs of the territory. And now, precisely, it must be the Government of the Generality that solves the problems. I do want to put it in value, and I thank you very much for raising the motion as well as the attitude of Mr Domínguez, who – also to the collaboration of Mrs Sans – raised concerns about the Tarragona territory, which is spoken here a little. And, of course, we have managed to agree many of the points – we will end up voting that yes to three, but in a nuanced way that is not a no, well, to which they plant. Yes, it is true that many of the questions, in fact, have already been approved or proposed for resolution or motions and are completed for the government. For example, we would vote that not at point 6 because, precisely, in a 30-generation session of the 19th, the counselor already appeared to give an explanation about the execution of the T-Mobility contract. We also have to refer to point 2, to which Mrs Sans also referred, in relation to the subject of the taxi, that... In fact, on the subject of the taxi, the Government has done the job: it has reached an agreement that makes a peaceful situation of the taxi at the station and in the area of there, that is not the eighth, but that allows a situation that satisfies both the assemblies of Perafort and Secuit – where the station is located materially – and the taxi services from there, like the taxis from Tarragona, that can go to carry. Therefore, there the government has done the work and reached an agreement on the subject of the taxi. Which makes it... if it were to be desirable for a global metropolitan area settlement, it would have to include a much more complex thing, which would be to address the issue of Reus airport. And, therefore, at this point, we would vote that it is not because it is one thing, the agreement that is currently in place, urged by the government – I insist – that has given a solution to this. We have, indeed, also the problem of parking, which was put in full by Congresswoman Sans, and, indeed, here it has had to be a small assembly – a small assembly, but with a great mayor – which has had to give a solution to what the State has not done. Indeed, the problem is serious: cars that have to be on demand for a whole day, there have been problems finding themselves even vandalism, cremated cars, stolen cars. And it is essential to have a low-cost parking lot, to which the Government will give all the support, in the part that corresponds to the Department of Territories..., this action. I say in the rest of the questions we agree. And the only topic of the Tramcamp, which we actually agree with, but obviously it was not possible to assume a compromise that you were unreal. The government has already initiated the information and environmental impact study and will give information at its time, but it must take into account that this requires municipal urban plans, the intervention of the ministry and, therefore, cannot compromise a calendar. And, lastly, and I feel the last intervention of the day, it must be made reference to the opinion of the United Nations Human Rights Commission's Arbitrary Detention Working Group – and it is important. Somriuen, but it's important. You say it's not mandatory. This committee has so far made 245 opinions, only two of which relate to countries of the European Union – Poland and France – which have supplemented them. This opinion says they're political prisoners and so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.240.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.241.0	...freedom, political prisoners, with a special record on President Forcadell's birthday. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.242.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.243.0	Thank you, President. He knows hard that there is not, in this case, the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability; there is the Secretary General of Government Infrastructures, Mr. Isidre Gavín. You know that I would say that mobility at Camp Tarragona has been one of the old parliamentary debates in this legislature. From our parliamentary group, from Catalonia to Comú Puem, we have made various demands to the length of this legislature. I have a feeling we're presenting motions for motions, but I think we're moving on a little bit, huh? I say, I would say, deeply regret it, but I have the feeling that these debates we have been having them repeatedly and we are having them repeatedly. I think they have to see or their origin has to see – it's also said – at these moments, I think that with what is an error planning for a long time what is mobility at Camp Tarragona. Especially because it has aspired to a certain infrastructure that is obviously..., I do not say that it is not necessary, but that mobility has been greatly prioritized through high speed in Catalonia. That is to say, we have the four capitals of the four major demarcations connected to the AVE, but we have great deficiencies in infrastructure, especially those that serve citizens and citizens day by day, such as, for example, rolling stock, right? And it's true... and I won't be the one defending, in this case, the infrastructure policy of the People's Party or the Socialist Party, which has coincided with a certain model, which is this model, huh? , the model of high speed, but I think– and here I don't think I went wrong– that it's not just a problem in Catalonia and Spain or where decisions are made, but also certain parties in Catalonia, like, for example, Convergence and Union, in their case, they bet on a certain model of infrastructure that was this and has always been this, before the mobility of the majority. And I also agree that, in planning at Camp Tarragona, it was an authentic disarray to locate the high-speed station where it is, that it is at the middle of the no-res, as it has now been said, but that this was also the result of a certain policy of campaigning between Reus and Tarragona, between Tarragona and Reus to be unable to settle down where an infrastructure like this was operating and not to do so in the centre of the city as it was done, for example, in Barcelona, as it was done in Girona or as it was done in Lleida. So there are also some mistakes that we say they're good, they're not just exogenous, they're always good, aren't they? One, I say, is used here to expel our chips and not make mistakes that I think are appropriate. And I have the feeling that we're in front of a situation where we can make a new mistake, huh? And I think you know that from our parliamentary group, from Catalonia to Comú Pueblo, we have practically claimed from the first day of this legislature the need to set off the train to Camp Tarragona. We believe that the entrance of the inn into the march of the Vandellòs variant will assume or may assume, practically before the end of the year, therefore, that the mobility through rollers, of Cambrils, Salou, is seen enormously affected. And I have the feeling that, despite the fact that we are presenting motions for motions, time has passed and that another time more there is a hot potato that I don't know if I can handle. And I think the government of the generality isn't acting fast enough either. That is to say, we have a government that is able to declare the climate emergency – welcome as it is – but at the same time it is very hasty to set aside the prolongation of the C-32, for example, between Blanes and Lloret, with a cost from a very important economic point of view of private mobility and, in this case, also carrying sixty thousand trees to the demarcation of Girona. But it is possible for the hands, for example, to see mobility, sustainable mobility and the day-to-day mobility of thousands of citizens. And, look, everyone knows, this can end at the end of the year. Now they're telling us that with three months they don't have the ability to put the report on the way, but it's been months – I'd say it's been a year – that we're complaining that we're working in an effective way on the train to Camp Tarragona. I have the feeling that this is going to happen, as I said before, rotten in my hands and that, besides, I don't know if it's all right, but here's a debate that's fun, and everyone knows it. Surely it could not be put from the table before the municipal elections, because surely there was, right? , mayors and mayors who played municipal elections, in this case Salou and Cambrils, and it was complicated to substantiate this debate before. But if there is dismantling – and we don't say so, we also say the Platform in defense of public transport –, if there is a real dismantling and effect, in this case, of the road infrastructure that passes at these times to Cambrils and Salou and there is not a transformation of the Tramcamp, there will be Tramcamp at Camp de Tarragona, because the reversal will be substantially fundamental. And this is the compromise that we haven't yet clarified, and we don't know exactly what the Generality wants to do, and even what the State wants to do. So, I think this is the phone book we're talking about, and we're talking about it all at once. A few months ago it was also approved, in this case we claimed it from the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, a summit. I understand that it was done with the mayors, but we also claimed that there was a debate at Camp Tarragona with parliamentary groups as well, and that we are discussing how we can manage not only the great mobility at Camp Tarragona, which you obviously have to see with the connectivity of the high-speed season at Camp Tarragona, but with which it affects thousands of citizens in their daily mobility. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] That they don't use high speed in this case...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.244.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.245.0	... and we are condemning them – I finish already – to a mobility in private transport to travel in their day-to-day movements. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.246.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Ms Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.247.0	Yes, thank you, President. From the escó. We see that this proposal points to the need for public transportation to Camp Tarragona that we believe to be interesting and important and, for another band, we believe that we lack a sovereignty over a strategic service such as the railway service. Therefore, as long as the State has this competence, there will still be a lack of investments and we will lack the capacity to decide on a strategic service as important as the railway service. For another band, and respect the T-Mobility, the same. We find that T-Mobility has been an invention that will ultimately be a market nix for certain businesses. In the end there have been delays, systemic incompliments, 24_million have already been spent on reporting that are absolutely useless. Because it is clear, it is clear that this company is the only one looking for its particular benefit, and does not cover the needs of the citizenry and improve the quality of a public service as important and as strategic as transport. We see that the company is SocMobility, which is formed by Cash and Indra. CaixaBank, Mr. Isidre Fainé, willing to collaborate and conxorxate with the State for a long term state operation. Ports of rotation, convergence, Socialist Party, thousands of cases of cost overruns, socialization of losses, privatizing of gains, repeated scams... So we will never have sovereignty to take any type of decision, if we continue to leave such strategic services as transportation in the hands of CaixaBank, in the hands of IBEX 35, in the hands of those who were locked after October 1st in a room with the great barons to prevent the people from deciding our present and our future.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.248.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.249.0	Thank you, President. Well, this young man is referring to mobility around Tarragona, and above all I think he's putting up an infrastructure that's going to go into operation very quickly and that's got relevancy. But let me first refer to another, which is easy to question now that it's done, which is the Tarragona Camp resort. And I share, with the user who in soc, from this station, the inconveniences he represents. But we may also be at the moment to visualize the stretches that were not only between Reus and Tarragona; it was also part of Valls. And there was also the Government of the Generality, and concretely a very active paper from a Medi Ambient advisor, who even later became Secretary of State for Infrastructures, or the Director General of Urbanism, who played a phonenal paper in defining the location of the Tarragona Camp station. And also remember that precisely the origin of the season in that point are lands that were owned by the same Incase. Therefore, the Government of the Generality played an important role in that definition. And now we're talking about another very important infrastructure, which started for years, it's true, many years ago, but fortunately now it will come into operation, which is the Vandellòs-Tarragona variant. And this will put more pressure on the Tarragona Camp station. And, therefore, it is certain that it must be equipped with infrastructures, parking lots, better public transport, the taxi..., ai, the taxi, we must talk about the taxi in Perafort and the Secuita, which will certainly not be easy, because it was no longer easy at the time to locate the taxi service at the Camp de Tarragona station, and all that it entails. The current way, escort, if from the Government of the State there is nothing, the current way, according to the declaration of environmental impact of the variant Tarragona-Vandellòs, is dismantled. It is to say that if there is something to be done – and it seems good to us that we are talking about the tram train – then it is better to speed it up as soon as possible. And this point is precisely to collect all these aspects so as to try to have an integral view of the impact precisely that will have this variation. Certainly, I find that I am missing... – I could have done it with a piece of paper; obviously, we have not done it, but as in my least conscious – I find that I also lack the importance of predicting the adaptation to international scale, precisely, of this variety, as the colloquium of the Mediterranean Corridor in this area. So, in the end, we will support this young man.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.250.0	Thank you, Congressman. And in the last term, and to pronounce on the papers, has the new word the deputy Francisco Javier Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.251.0	Well, first of all, say hello to the secretary Isidre Gavín, who had not seen him before, who is certainly aware of the problem as well, as a user of the Lleida-Barcelona line. Above all, I want to emphasize that the diagnosis is one hundred_per_one hundred coincident among all groups. I think that's a very good sign. From Citizens we appreciate positively the good willingness to deal with several of the amendments with the Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana groups, and also the attempt with the PSC. But we cannot accept Amendment No 9. At this point a timetable is called for for the tram train, and it is clear that the Government does not want to tell us when this tram train will be. Will it be a year, five years, or twenty years? Why do they not want to set a timetable, even if it is close? Because the deadlines are very long, and that for you does not sell; it is very difficult to sell something that takes so long to come. What it sells is to blame another: either Madrid or the rest of Spain. Assuming something's not ready on its own is a lot harder. We also reject the SGP amendments because we have not been able to deal with them. But, gentlemen of the PSC, do not intend to take away the work of the Spanish government from the PSOE; it has work. We do not settle for feasibility studies for Avant's new services; we want Avant's new services, not just a study. Paragraph 6 calls for transparency on T-Mobility. And why will they vote that not the parties that support the government? Because the government does not want to give us information, does not want to give us a contract relationship, does not want us to know the amendments to these contracts and does not want us to know the cost of all this. What are they trying to hide? Citizens deserve to be informed of how public money is spent. And, finally, this motion seeks to improve public transport in Tarragona, it is a motion for the benefit of all, and, although not entirely approved, we will have made important commitments. Put yourselves to work, work for the mobility of Tarragona and live up to, for once, what the citizens are asking for. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.252.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break. Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.253.0	Yes; to request separate vote from point 2, please. [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.254.0	Yes, ma'am Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.255.0	Separate vote from another block: points 6 and 9.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.256.0	All right. Any more? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Maria Sirvent I write asking to speak.]] Say'm, Miss Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.257.0	Yes; President, thank you. It is to ask for the separate vote from points 12 and 13.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.258.0	Can they vote together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.259.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-05-30-3202.260.0	Thank you. All right. So we'll vote first point number two, aside; 6 and 9, for one band; 12 and 13, for the other, and the rest of the motion. Okay? [[Pause.]] All right. So let's start the vote with point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been rejected by 57 votes in favour, 69 against and no abstentions. We now vote on points 6 and 9–6 and 9. The vote begins. Points 6 and 9 were approved by 65 votes to 61, with no abstentions. We're voting points 12 and 13. The vote begins. Points 12 and 13 were approved by 125 votes to one, with no abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions. There are no more points in the order of the day. The session's up. [[Some applause.]]
