ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e108	The representative of Thore A. Nistad, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The representative Knut Storberget shall apply for welfare leave from 11 June to 20 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Grethe G. Fossum, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e129	The representative of Torbjørn Andersen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e132	On behalf of Per Sandberg, Gjermund Hagesetter and myself, I would like to make proposals to introduce free municipal taxpayers and a state-run price financing of the primary welfare services in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e137	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today’s map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the scheduled time at noon. 15.00 until the current map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e155	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group, 5 minutes to the representative Simonsen and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after the speeches by the main speakers of each group and five lines of reply after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e164	With the many proposals, different majority and minorities in the vote and subsidiary positions, I feel it safest, as the rapporteur, to explain the views of the Labour Party, whether we are now in the position of the Committee, the majority or the minority. I am sure that the other parties feel similar needs. A review of the support for higher education students has been requested by the Committee and by the Government on several occasions. This was further updated when the Government proposed in the 2003 budget proposal to reduce the size of the outreach population, among others. introduced an educational scholarship. The Government has thus proposed a new aid scheme to be examined by the Stortinget today. And the Storting will make changes to the Government's arrangement. It is in this context that the Labour Party will criticise the fact that the Ministry used the Loan Fund to implement its proposals earlier in the spring by informing the students that these will apply from the coming school year, without waiting for the treatment of the Storting, also proposals that would give negative results to the students. This is, to put it mildly, an unfortunate procedure! The Labour Party believes that we need to have a support scheme for secondary education students to ensure that young people can use their right to secondary education regardless of their financial background. We're dedicated to seeing the 13-year-old in primary and secondary education in the context. If the right to secondary education is to become a reality, it is an objective for us that the free principle of primary education must be extended to include secondary education. Here we have focused in particular on the goal of free learning material. The Workers' Party continues to believe that we can make the best use of resources by building on and expanding a loan scheme for learning materials and educational support, administered by the county council, and developing digital learning materials. It is a fact that everyone has expenditure on teaching material, and that expenditure varies greatly depending on the direction of study. This is not taken into account by the Ministry's proposals. Subsidiarity is of the opinion that, in addition to prioritising them with the lowest parental income, learning outcomes should also be differentiated in order to address differences in costs between the different directions of study. We are pleased that the entire Committee asks the Government to consider a differentiation. A large majority of the Committee will also consider whether the Government can take greater account of when, in the year, the students actually have the costs of learning material. The Workers' Party and the majority of the Committee support the proposal for a common support scheme for all pupils taking upper secondary education under the same conditions. This means, among other things: that students over the age of 19 are also guaranteed the opportunity to receive a home-based scholarship, but will receive support for their own economy. We are pleased that the Government reverses its proposal to reduce the outreach grant and maintain the level from the school year 2002/2003. As regards the travel allowance, the Workers' Party and a majority of the Committee oppose the Government's proposal for a maximum limit of NOK 7 000 per year. year of education. We pay particular attention to preventing students in a rights-based secondary education from being given increased expenditure on the implementation of education. The Labour Party agrees with the objective that pupils should be released from secondary education indebtedness. But we don't want to take away the need-tested loan access until one has ensured that this is satisfactorily compensated by grant increases or other cost-reducing ways. The government’s plan of default of loan access would mean that some students would receive a lower funding base for their education. We also note that the government wants to keep access to the loan without needing testing for the coverage of school fees for private secondary schools. Reference should be made, inter alia, to: to the argument that there are more conscious choices behind this than in public school. Assuming continued access to the loan, a unanimous Committee of the Government is asking for follow-up to the development of the loan and report back to the Storting on borrowing needs and payment problems. With regard to needs testing, the Committee agrees that this should be done against the financial situation of dependants and pupils. The working party disagrees that the need test will no longer take into account e.g.: income from real estate, interest and share dividends, taxable profit on the sale of shares or residence, even if it is a small number. I see here the Right Spirit in the proposal. The Committee also asks the Government in the context of needs testing to consider extending the concept of dependant to cohabiters with common children. The Committee welcomes the fact that the new aid scheme ensures that apprentices receive a non-needed housing allowance. The working party also believes that apprentices should have the same opportunities for student support as other secondary education students, and is therefore in favour of apprentices' remuneration being included in the rules on income from work if necessary. Better student support opportunities can be a positive contribution to the selection of vocational education and training. The time has come, and I take this up with me the proposals where the Labour Party is the proposer or the co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e202	The representative of Vidar Bjørnstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e207	I note that the Workers' Party is still standing on its idea of a loan arrangement, and then I would like to challenge it with some numbers. If increase of 400 million. The total amount proposed by the Government is allocated — and then the full amount is spent — to the upper secondary school grant to 170 000 students, this is going to be just over NOK 2000 per person, plus that you have to deduct from the administration when the county councils are to administer. The challenge and question for the Workers' Party will be the following: When you say that you want free learning material, how in the world you intend to get free learning material for all students for a little over NOK 2000 per year. student? The second question of the Workers' Party is this: Isn't the Workers' Party more concerned with those who might need the most help from the public, and of giving less to those who manage themselves and don't need help? Has the social profile of the Workers' Party been lost along the way?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e214	As I mentioned in my post, our starting point is from the discussion about the target of higher education costs, i.e. the right-based secondary education, that it should be free of charge equivalent to primary school in the long term. At first, we have been very busy looking at the possibility of free learning material. The government of Stoltenberg initiated a lending scheme for books. And then you add 100 million. kr to it plus for the development of digital learning material. We would have liked to be able to build on that scheme instead of paying a one-off amount to each student, which means that not everyone will be able to cover the cost of learning material. Then one could have accumulated it over time and had a better effect on it than by paying out a single amount year after year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e221	It is such that elements such as residence, travel and line selection may give rise to a different cost picture for students undergoing secondary education. So the working party will keep the need-tested access to borrowings. Why will the assessment of needs not be left to the students and the supervisors, when students and supervisors believe that this is the basis for taking up a loan in order to get through this training? Why won't the Workers' Party leave that decision to those who are involved, i.e. students and superiors?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e226	We have today a loan access and a student support system based on a 19-year age limit. We're basically in favour of a common support scheme regardless of that age limit. In relation to deciding for ourselves, we believe that there is a basis for claiming that a dependant has an obligation to grant grants to students in secondary education. In relation to the disposal of public funds to the public education system, we believe that this is the basis for also having a need test of the means we want to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e231	In one of the notes from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, it says: ‘These members agree that pupils should be released from secondary education indebtedness.’ Then it is a paradox for me to hear Vidar Bjørnstad say that you still want to have the loan access. Doesn't the Labour Party see that debt is a problem? The goal must be, as it says here, to go out indebted. What is it that the Workers' Party believes this will be compensated? What are they willing to use resources to grant scholarships to high school students, if you want to remove the loan access? For no one gets less scholarships with the new scheme than they have in the current system. So what is the Workers' Party willing to add out of extra resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e243	The strange thing is that the Government and the Christian People's Party are removing the loan access for the vast majority of students, but keep a loan access for those who are going to have loans for school money in private secondary schools. At least the government should have been consistent and done it all over the line if it first took away the loan access. But we just don't want to take away the loan until you're sure that students are compensated through scholarships or cost reductions in other ways, for example. by our proposal to secure free learning material. If you look at today's average borrowing requirement in relation to the increases in grants shown in the bill, it's obvious that a good number of students actually get a lower funding base by one per. today removes the access to the loan. We'll be open to discussing a removal of loan access, but that means that we have to be willing to add more to scholarship increases or in other ways reduce the cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e248	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e252	The proposal for a new support scheme for young students in secondary education can only be described in one word: a huge boost. Never has a government proposed such a conversion including an economic follow-up of 400 million. kr annually in increased appropriations. Thousands of higher education students can look forward to a lighter financial situation, and those with the least will get the most. The government's proposals for needs-tested basic and curriculum scholarships are more targeted and require less administration to be implemented than, for example: Loan scheme of the Workers' Party. To the right, it's an important principle. The State of the arrangement shall help those who need it and the scheme shall be simple and inexpensive to administer. For a number of years, pupils from low-income families have been dependent on raising loans in order to take up higher education. Special families who have to send students from home have a lot of hard work to do. In my home state, Finnmark, there 40 pst. Of the students in secondary education, people who live away, I have met many families who have a very difficult time. When the Government proposes a boost in education support for these students, both they and their families will have a much better financial situation. The principle of needs-tested scholarships is widely accepted in Stortinget. For the Right, it is important to help those students and families that have the worst economic base. If you are to give all the students scholarships, you have to lubricate so thin that no one can benefit greatly from this great promise. Therefore, the Right has always opposed general schemes without a social profile. For example, one who wants to win at the co-operation agency’s premises is: a student residing in Berlevåg, who has a single parent with low income and who has to travel to Vadsø to attend high school. This student can get over NOK 20 000 more in scholarships, and thus does not take up loans to get a rights-based education. When we also know that most of the debt collection issues in the State Loan Fund relate to people who took out loans to high school, it gives this student a much better start in life than previous schemes. The government proposes in its model to abolish access to loans for young students in secondary education. This is compensated by the need-tested grant scheme, which will prevent some students from getting a very difficult economic start in life. Unfortunately, the majority in Stortinget wants to maintain access to the loan, and it regrets Right. In this context, the Committee calls on the Ministry to keep an eye on developments and return to the Grand Duchy in 2005. We get to hope that the bulk of the population then sees the positive development of the government's arrangement and once and for all ends the chapter on youth that can end up with debt to the state in order to get a basic education. It is often those with the least resources that are most difficult to reach. It is therefore important that we, as politicians, also see them and set up state support systems, so that those who need it most benefit most from them. A test of the need for training scholarships, where a clear priority is given, is therefore important and correct. The new study support system we are adopting today can stand for many years. If a person wishes to give more or raise the limits of need testing, it is only to grant and add more money to the scheme. The principle of differentiated training aid is added today. General arrangements such as: The working party has been engaged in, is being officially scolded today. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in this matter. The entire committee has had the best wishes for the students, although it is suggested that there has been a different approach to the problem. The government's approach is largely adopted, and the decision today is good news for most students with a right to secondary education in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e269	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e272	The representative Robertsen concluded that we have now buried general arrangements and differentiated them. Now the Government and government parties in the budget proposed to reduce the outreach grant. Is the representative Robertsen happy that a majority in the Stortinget now ensures that we maintain the level of outlaw education from the current school year? My second question is on loan access. We believe that one has not compensated for the removal of the loan access with the increase in scholarships. Can Robertsen tell me what he means by compensating for the removal of the loan access, and how they have kept the increases for the different income groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e279	I feel in many ways that the representative, Mr Bjørnstad, brings up here, is not really a disagreement about politics, but about where the level of appropriations should lie. It is true that when the government wanted a more differentiated and need-tested grant scheme, it wanted to give priority to those who had the least, and on the basis of the financial framework, there was a small reduction in the amount of outreach grants in the state budget because it was also tested for needs. Now Stortinget has given more money, so that the system can clearly be better, and it has improved. But what's important to remember here is that for government parties it's important to give priority to those who have the least. This has been done by what was originally proposed, and what is being adopted today. I can't see, and I don't remember that the Workers' Party has proposed a system that gives the most to those who have the least.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e286	It's about two things. Some of the changes in the government’s approach to comitology are the view that differences in costs should be balanced between different types of study through differentiated scholarships. I would like the representative Robertsen from the government party to elaborate on why they have agreed to this. So there has been a need in the committee treatment that the government has obviously released a little too quickly. The second is the level of expenditure or cost of learning material. What is the Government Party's right-hand prescription to bring down the general level of expenditure, making teaching material cheaper for all students who are in higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e293	First of all, with differentiated educational support. It is true that the Storting asks the Government to take a closer look at a larger differentiation. It is true that good suggestions and good ideas to find better solutions should always be addressed, including from the Stortinget. That's why the Right is of course involved in such an approach. I am absolutely convinced that the department will look at this and try to find solutions. We must not forget that it may cost more, and then the Storting must show the will in relation to its intentions to grant more money. And we'll see if the Progress Party is excited about that. With regard to cheaper learning materials in general, the Committee has both a unanimous note and a proposal on greater use of ICT. I think that ICT is going to be an important tool in the future to bring down learning material costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e300	A leading principle in secondary education has been equal to the right to education wherever you live in the country and to equalise differences. Government parties propose a maximum travel allowance of SEK 7 000, which will mean that it will cost more for those living in the districts, for example. in Finnmark. With this, the government expects a saving of $3 million. kr. At the same time, the Government proposes not to have a need-tested loan access for those taking out loans to go to private schools, and also proposes not to have a need test for income on real estate, interest and dividends and the sale of housing, which the Government estimates will cost about 2 million. kr. My question to Robertsen is, is it that district youth has to pay for those who go to private schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e309	First of all, the representative Jensen said about a trip. There is no doubt that if you want more travel expenses, you have to give money, and there is no doubt that this is a matter which we believe belongs to the revised national budget. We will see whether SV follows up on the revised national budget with proposals that we should not have a lower limit of NOK 7 000. In addition, there is also harmonisation with the support system we have for higher education. As far as access to loans for those who go to private schools is concerned, I just want to say one thing: the reason why you do this is that you want to make sure that those who may not have that much money are able to go to these schools as well. To follow SV's line, private schools will become as SV claims they are, only for rich people. Then you have to have the economy to finance it. The alternative for SV will be: either that only rickets will go to private school, or that the State will grant or pay the scholarship.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e316	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e319	I would like to remind you of the reason why we are dealing with this matter today. In the context of the 2003 budget, the Government submitted proposals for a new support scheme for all young students entitled to secondary education under Section 3-1 of the Training Act. In the budget agreement with the Progress Party, the Government was asked to present its own case on the aid scheme. The agreement underlined that no one who had previously received a scholarship would receive lower grants in the new aid scheme. This is an important result for young students in ordinary secondary education. However, it is unacceptable when the Government signals that everything in the message is almost pre-cleared and cannot be changed. One may wonder that this government still needs to be reminded that it does not have a majority in the Grand Duchy. The core of this case is the financing of secondary education. The parties have different views on this. Of course, this also governs the view of the aid schemes through the Loan Fund. While the party is forced to undertake 13 years of training, it nevertheless considers that secondary education is a common good to be financed by the public. The main funding model of the Progress Party with grants accompanying the student will capture cost differences between the general and professional lines. Together with a grant scheme for each student linked to travel distance and residence arrangements, this will provide a level playing field for students throughout the country and a fully funded education. In addition, the Progress Party will work in various ways to limit the expenditure of students to different types of higher education educational material. Of course, it is an objective that students’ spending on teaching material should be as low as possible. This last relationship must be mentioned in the case in the opinion of the Advance Party. From the Progress Party, we don't just have a review. We also have specific proposals. We propose that the Government implement measures to terminate the book-keeping agreement. The progress party also recalls that it is legal and therefore possible to use advertising to finance school books. The Progress Party is currently alone with its clear recommendation on the use of advertising-funded school books. We think this possibility is too little known by students and parents. This is one of the reasons why the Progress Party will have a user selection for high school where parents drop out. Today, parents have no influence on this school type. Apart from this, the Progress Party generally supports the Government's approach, but not the need test as a principle. But we have our own proposals in areas that the Progress Party believes are important for young students in ordinary secondary school. The Progress Party is pleased that the entire Committee shares our desire to improve the use of ICT, also in order to look at how the use of electronic learning material can improve the quality of learning work, provide the student with good up-to-date learning material and, not least, reduce the cost of learning material. The Progress Party shall promote its own proposal to pay the full amount of the first semester of the course. We mean most of the expenses are then coming. We record that we are alone in this. On the other hand, the Progress Group welcomes the fact that the entire Committee will have solutions to balance the cost differences between different types of study through differentiated scholarships. The Progress Party is also pleased that a majority will remove the proposed maximum limit in the annual travel allowance scheme for secondary school students. It is in line with the desire of the Progress Party that travel distances or residence arrangements should not lead to major differences for secondary school students. The Progress Party will continue a general access to loans for students in higher education and will promote proposals to this effect. Students who are qualified and students under the age of government together with directors must, in the view of the Progress Party, be given the opportunity to borrow from the State Loan Fund. This vision is the only one on which the Party of Advancement stands. For students, we choose the second best solution when it's available. The Progress Party will therefore vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal and the Swedish Labour Party's proposal to maintain the need-tested access to loans. In any case, it means that those students who pass a need test are given the opportunity to borrow when they themselves consider it necessary. Finally, the Progress Party will change the apprenticeship system for the treatment of apprentices. We see that there are arguments that at least some of the apprentice's wages should be counted as a special income, an income other students don't have. The solution of the Progress Party will initially propose a reduction from 60 pst in the proportion to be deducted from the aid amount. to 30 pst. The Progress Party has registered the proposals from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre to remove the entire deduction. That's not the majority for that. If you organise the vote correctly, it must be possible to agree to the second best solution here as well. In doing so, I take up the proposals in the position of the Progress Party and the representative of Jan Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e359	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e365	The fact that the Advance Party is a generous party, especially with regard to the use of taxpayers' money, is not new, and it will also be known in this case: ‘These members will stress that a scholarship should be awarded to all secondary school students irrespective of their parent’s wealth and income.’ In other words, whether you need this scholarship or not, you should get it by means of taxpayers' money. The representative from the Advance Party has of course calculated what this costs, and it might be nice to get information about. But what's even more interesting is, where is the money going to be taken from? What will the Progress Party give priority to prioritizing this generosity?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e377	The Treasury is not currently characterised by a lack of money, but what characterises the debate is how to use the money and whether to use it. Some people have almost a mantra about not spending money. In addition, I would like to say that we believe that we should treat students who choose to go further from primary to secondary education. So we want to treat the students in the same way and give them the same terms and conditions, regardless of what's in their parents' wallets.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e384	The background for the matter coming in ours, and perhaps a little hasty, was an agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party in relation to the budget. After the examination in the committee, where the Progress Party was moving towards a good part of the changes that were being made, it is my impression that one here has progressed too quickly in order to ensure the basis of the Government's majority. Does the Progress Party believe that the government parties have taken the Advance Party for granted in the Storting in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e391	As I tried to express in my article, the reason why we are discussing this matter here today is that we, as part of our agreement, got a case. What was too fast was that this change was mentioned in some columns of the 2003 State budget itself. We are pleased that we have received a wide-ranging discussion of the various aspects related to funding for high-level students through our own big message, which we are now discussing. We're happy with that. Through the committee reading, we also see that there have been both majority comments and committee comments, and through the proposals we see that important changes and adjustments have been made to the proposal with which the Government started and which were initially wanted to be dealt with in some columns of a budget paper. We are very pleased that we have received this as our own message.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e398	In the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party, it was agreed to look at the outreach grant and to cancel it, as the government has now proposed, and fresh money has been put in for scholarships for students in higher education. It's added 400 million. kr on an annual basis. The Progress Party will continue to maintain the access to finance, as we heard from Sortevik now. Does the Progress Party view it as a problem that there is a group of students in secondary education who are overrepresented in the fund's debt collection statistics, i.e. that when students have taken up loans as unauthorized persons, do they, of course, with the parents' permission? What is the Progress Party going to do with this, and how much will they spend on resources to compensate for this loan access?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e405	First of all, we're talking about estimates, and second, we're seeing it as a significantly bigger problem that someone wants to disincentive students and parents, than that someone can get to feel twisted and unlucky and maybe won't be able to repay the loan. We are concerned that this must be able to decide for ourselves jointly by parents and students, rather than that we, as politicians, should set a framework and limits on what they should be allowed to do and not do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e410	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e413	The design of the support scheme for secondary education is important and essential in order for everyone to be able to take secondary education. It is an important tool to help everyone take secondary education, and to have an opportunity no matter what kind of social status you have, no matter where you live and who your parents are. Many of the answers to the challenges facing us in Norway are education. We need to build our society on competence to achieve the goal we've set ourselves, to become world champion in education. SV believes it means free advanced education. We have previously proposed 400 million in the budget this year. kr additional to a scholarship scheme for teaching materials, as proposed by the Government in its entirety for secondary education. The principle of free has to be in force. Everyone shall have an opportunity to take secondary education independently of their place of residence, income and background, as previously stated. It costs a lot different to go on the different lines. The government is problematic about introducing differentiated scholarships depending on the cost of the different courses of study. This must be possible, SV believes, for example. through cooperation with the county council, which can increase the allocation of equipment and thus alleviate the financial burden currently placed on individual students in highly cost-intensive courses of study. The government’s proposal for a travel allowance of up to DKK 7 000 does not contribute to equal education rights and gives everyone in Norway the same opportunity for educational courses regardless of geographical circumstances. It is important, SV believes, to maintain the current system of not having a maximum travel limit. If you go in for what the government wants, it will mean a bias in the ability to participate. We propose the same with regard to higher education, but we believe it is even more important that these principles apply to higher education. That is why we are pleased that the majority opposes the Government's proposal, without maximum financial limit from the autumn of 2003. We can't go in for a change that involves a decrease of 2 million. kr, by not having a need test for income from real estate, interest and dividends and taxable profit. At the same time, the Government also proposes not to have needs tests for those attending private schools. The conclusion is, as I said earlier, in many ways that it is district youth that pays for those who choose a course of study in private schools. SV will propose 3 million. kr into the revised national budget to compensate for this. We actually had in the vote also a proposal that gets containment, that's to cut these two former ones that the government is proposing, but we don't have a majority for that. That is why we want to include it in the revised national budget. I want to re-emphasize the importance of a free high school, and that everyone can go freely through education, an education of which everyone is part. Today it's like 97 pst. by students taking secondary education. 23,4 p.p. of those who have taken up loans for secondary education are subject to collection requirements. This is something we can't accept. We believe that everyone should be able to go out of high school indebtedly. It's an important principle. But what happens in this case is that the department has not compensated for the loss of the loan access in the proposed grant increase. This means that some receive poorer funding for the implementation of secondary education. The need-tested access to loans should be maintained until further notice, SV believes, because we do not have a majority for our proposals for increases. What will happen to some students is that you will have an increased borrowing burden. You can't close your eyes for this. How do these students feel? What happens to these students with respect to other loan institutions that have loan liabilities that are not as good as in the Loan Fund? We also believe that we need to review the reimbursement situation of that group of students, with possible improvements, and give feedback to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e439	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e442	I've been in countless school debates with the Socialist Left Party up over the last few years. In particular, there is one theme that has gone on and it is that young people should not take up loans to carry out higher education. That's because we know that a lot of people have payment problems. A lot of people get payment problems and go seams in situations where it's hard for them to get loans for education later. I think the representative Jensen shows a touching concern in his contribution to those who end up in that situation. But that's when my question is, when the Socialist Left Party first has the opportunity to ensure that young people can go innocently through higher education, why do they turn around and make sure that the majority of them can still go into debt? My next question is: How much money does the representative Jensen think it might be necessary to compensate for the need for young people to go through high school indebtedly?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e451	I thank you for the question. It is important for SV to see the education in its entirety, which was also reflected in the setting that the Quality Committee put on the table a few days ago. It's important for us that all students should be able to go indebted, so they should be able to get free advanced education. But what's a fact is that, after what the government has now presented, they don't. Some students will have a greater burden in terms of costs. You won't be compensated for all that you've gotten through the other system before. What's been calculated is that it'll cost about 400 million. kr for the educational grant increase only. We believe that we have to stick our finger in the ground and show what is reality. We don't have a majority of the Stortinget behind us to make a free high school today. Then we have to compensate as best we can. We don't do it with a light heart, but we do it because we see that the alternative is much worse. We'll do it until further notice, until the Stortinget has a majority for free advanced education.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e459	It's going to be loan access from a slightly different angle. So SV will have need-tested loan access, but not general loan access. Is this not an expression of the different treatment of pupils and of their superiors? This applies to the apprenticeship scheme, the percentage that goes to the deduction of the aid amount. The Progress Party has put forward proposals to reduce the traction rate from 60 pst. to 30 pst. The Socialist Left Party will take it all away, but that's the second best solution. That's the next best solution SV is going to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e466	We're in favour of a need-tested loan access because, first of all, it will cost a lot if all high school students are to have the opportunity to borrow. So much money doesn't have an SV. Secondly, we also want to test needs both for those who are going to private schools, and for those who have income from houses, property, dividends, etc., because this should be a scheme that supports those who need it the most. In the case of apprentices, we have suggested that compensation be made for their income to be regarded as ordinary income, because the work of the apprentices in an enterprise must also be seen as income-creating work for the enterprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e475	Sometimes it's a little hard to understand the logic of what's being proposed, because the Socialist Left suggests a need-tested loan access, that is. to reach those pupils and teenage families with the lowest income. That is what lies in the principle of need testing. The same group wants the government now, just that we're giving scholarships. If SV is concerned about reaching this group, should it not be logical that, on the basis of the free-of-charge principle, one might increase the grant and put fresh money on the table, possibly adjusting the income limit, rather than opening up access to loans, which means that those who are likely to have the greatest difficulty in repaying the loan may become victims of debt? SV does not solve the debt-sacrifice case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e480	As I said earlier, SV proposed 400 million in the budget. kr for educational scholarships for all students. It's important for us to have a free advanced education, as I've said before. But I don't understand what the government says, what you say, what you say, what you suggest. You talk about reaching the poorest. However, in the case of borrowings, it has been proposed to keep access to the loan only for those who go to private schools without need testing, and at the same time to remove the need test for dividends on shares, real estate and a number of concrete measures that are very targeted at those who make a lot of money. This proposal should be removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e487	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e490	The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government has provided a comprehensive review of the support schemes through the State Loan Fund for Young Students with a right to secondary education. It's in St.meld. No 21 for 2002-2003 that the new aid scheme is a four-component grant scheme: basic education-scholared boarding school Finally, students must receive a targeted support scheme that takes into account both learning material and living costs. The Aamodt Committee's 1999 study shows that there has been a need for a support scheme for secondary school students. The Labour Party Government would have a lending arrangement. It turned out to be low-targeted and also difficult to implement. In December 2002, the Stortinget Government asked for a review of the loan and grant scheme, which is currently under consideration. The budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party agreed that the outreach grant should not be reduced in relation to the current level. This follows the Government by raising the housing allowance from NOK 2 215 per person. the month, as indicated in the budget, to NOK 3450. The Christian People's Party is particularly pleased that this non-need-tested housing grant is being continued, and that a basic grant is introduced that is targeted primarily at students from families with weak economies. The teaching material scholarship of NOK 3500 shall be tested both for residents and for residents. Thus, equal rights to education are possible for young people who have to leave home in order to attend school. Apprentices are also guaranteed housing benefits under this new scheme. The lending scheme initiated by the Workers' Party was not sufficiently accurate and did not pay particular attention to students with a weak economy. The main principle of this new aid scheme is that it should be financed by grants, not loans. The government's proposal for the cancellation of loan access will help prevent poverty. The aim is that young people should not be indebted to the State after completion of secondary education. Today, students who have received a loan for secondary education are an overrepresented group in the fund collection statistics. The Aamodt Committee compiled an overview showing that 6,596 of the 8,548 students borrowing in 1997-1998 were found in families with less than NOK 200,000 in income. It has previously been said in a reply to me from Vidar Bjørnstad that you keep access to the loan for students in private schools. Both the Aamodt committee and also the Longva committee actually agreed that this should be the case. They say that high school students should have the opportunity to cover school money, and it follows up the government. The Christian People's Party believes that the introduction of proven basic grants compensates for the loss of access to loans. NOK 1730 per year. the month is a good contribution to those with the weakest income. In addition, the curriculum comes. Young people should not be left liable to the State after secondary education. Moreover, it has also been pointed out in previous investigations that it is unfortunate that unauthorised persons raise loans. It is therefore regrettable that both the SV, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party do not take the consequences of this and, as we have heard earlier today, will still have a loan access. The Government considers that the support scheme should be common to all young students taking secondary education, including those over 19 years of age. Paragraph 53 of the second paragraph of the Children’s Act states that after 18 years, children are entitled to contributions from their parents if they wish to continue schooling as usual. The Christian People's Party agrees that students over the age of 19 are being tested according to the family's financial situation. They will be entitled to needs-tested scholarships under this new scheme, which will compensate for loans they have been able to raise in today's system. There are about 150,000 high school students today. Of these, over 57 000 are supported by the Loan Fund in the current school year. It is important to target support, so that it first benefits those who need it the most. So a little bit about textbooks, some of which have been about. We know that some schools change their textbooks quite often. This means that students cannot sell their books after the school year has ended. This should be taken into account by schools and in addition provide education so that it is not always necessary to have the latest edition of the textbook. A circular from the Department of School Owners has also addressed this issue. School must not be a marketing arena. Therefore, advertising does not belong in the textbooks, which is a response to the Advance Party. Travel grants are a change in the direction of the Government, with which the majority will do something. For the Christian People's Party, the background for this is harmonisation with the higher education system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e533	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e536	As I mentioned in a previous reply to a reply, I find it strange that the Christian People's Party, which underlines the payment problems as a background for removing the access to finance for students in public school, keeps it for school money for those who are in private high school. Although it is a large proportion – I think it was 17 pst. Of the students who borrow in high school, who have problems with the refund – I believe this points towards saying that students in private secondary schools should have different conditions than those in public school. The government has also proposed that, if necessary, a test should not take into account income from real estate, interest and share dividends and taxable profit from the sale of shares or residence. It concerns a small number, but nevertheless, the Labour Party is going against such discrimination. Does the Christian People's Party think this is a good suggestion from the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e545	First, Vidar Bjørnstad's statement that it is strange that we want to keep access to the loan for students in private secondary schools. It's no more strange than other people who have investigated these things, also saying that this should be the case. I indicated that both the Aamodt Committee and the Longva Committee agree that this should be the case. It's an extra cost these students have to pay school money. In order for it not only to be the richest who can afford this, we want to give these students the opportunity to borrow, so that it can be open to more people to go to private high school. To the last. We support the government in the way of doing things, so that it shouldn't be too complicated, but that things can be done in a simpler way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e552	As far as I can see, the Christian People's Party says something in its programme, related to this area and study funding, that it should help to eliminate inequalities. Is that why you go in to have a maximum amount on return trips, for example.? Is that why you choose – at least in the first edition of the Government – to ignore the fact that the cost of teaching materials is quite different according to the line you choose? Now, to the extent that the Party of the Christian People's Party has re-entered, because they are part of a collective committee that wants to look further at this. But the fact that you treat the lines the same way when there's a substantial difference in the cost of learning, doesn't help to eliminate inequalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e563	It's true that the Christian People's Party wants to eliminate the inequalities. As far as this is concerned, as I said in my article, it is because you wanted to harmonise with what also applies in higher education. There has also been a desire to achieve harmonisation in other areas. When it comes to different expenditures on different lines, etc., we've said that this is what we want to look at and come back to. It's pretty complicated, because there's a lot of different lines and possibilities in higher education. It says in the message that the government has also looked at this, but not found to want to go into it now in this round. So the Christian People's Party is willing to see if you can find a solution to fund these with educational scholarships in different ways later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e572	The country's apprentices have strict economic conditions. Firstly, I am very pleased that the Government proposes that apprentices should also be included in the scheme of non-need-tested residents' allowances. But my question goes on my own rules for unemployment income. What is happening today is that the apprentices have been cut off from large parts of the study funding scheme because apprentice pay does not come under the same scheme as other non-unemployed income. If you had done what SV and the Workers' Party suggested, it would mean strengthening those who choose to take vocational training. In a time of shortage of skilled labour, this would be a very important positive contribution to these.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e579	The new scheme now proposed by the Government is also an improvement for apprentices. I remember that they can now also receive a transfer grant, NOK 3 450 per person. month, which is a major change from the current plan. So this also benefits apprentices. We look at the income that students have, different from the income that other high school students have, but we can also be willing to look at it further. We're not ready to go into this right now. We believe that apprentices are getting better with the new scheme, and will look at how this works.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e586	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e589	First, I would like to thank Vidar Bjørnstad for a thorough work as rapporteur for this matter. In the Grand Election Programme and in the course of the last year's budgetary procedure, the Centre has set up general grant schemes for full scholarships, so that secondary school students are not allowed to borrow. We see from statistics that youth with loans from higher education is actually overrepresented among those with payment difficulties in the Loan Fund. When the Government now proposes to suspend access to borrowing for students in ordinary secondary school, the Central Party believes that there is a step in the right direction. The centre party believes in principle that no student should have to borrow to complete high school. It is therefore essential that the grant schemes actually meet the needs of students to meet the costs of higher education. I therefore assume that the proposed strengthening of the grant schemes will compensate the students for the loss of the loan access, and refer to the details of this in the notification. If it turns out that students will face financial difficulties as a result of the loss of access to the loan, the Centre Party considers that this needs to be resolved by adjusting the individual grants in relation to the annual budgets. I think it's unsocial, unsolvable and an undermining of the goal of full scholarship if it's going to be possible to raise loans for a small group of students from families with a very strenuous economy. The government proposed in the 2003 State budget to reduce the size of the outreach grant to NOK 2 215. I think it is good that the government has come up with better thoughts and proposes to maintain the housing allowance of NOK 3450, as a non-need-tested scholarship. The protests were unison, and schools with boarding despaired, and for students from the districts who had to live in shelter or at boarding school, the proposal of the Government was very unfair. A little bit of argument to change this we've heard was that one should have equal right to education, regardless of where one lived. Then it's strange, I think, that the government parties on another scholarship, i.e. on the travel scholarship, have a limit of NOK 7 000. It affects students who live far away from the place of study. The centre party considers that the travel scholarship is an important contribution to ensuring equal rights to education irrespective of geographic circumstances. A maximum limit of SEK 7 000 will particularly affect students in the districts and will also break the target of greater student exchanges between Nordic countries. Now, fortunately, there's a majority in the opposition to cancel this limit of $7,000. The aim of the centre is that higher education should be free of charge, and believes that the best way to achieve that objective is to develop an educational grant scheme for all. We know that there are large costs associated with the purchase of educational tools, and this conflicts with the objectives of equal rights to education and free secondary education. We believe that the size of the grant must reflect the cost differences in the different directions of study. Furthermore, the Centre considers that the county councils as school owners need to be financially able to equip schools in such a way that the cost of individual students can be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e610	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e613	The representative of the Skjälaa was very concerned about having an equality between high school students, regardless of where they live, and had a reasoning about the outlaw student. And then he also had a visit to the travel allowance and the limit of 7,000 kroner. I would like to challenge the representative of Skjälaa a little bit more at the limit of NOK 7 000, when he argues against this limit, among other things. from the fact that high school students will be able to take similar education in other Nordic countries, and also in relation to the fact that this is likely to be students on national or national lines. Why should there be discrimination between high school students and students? Is the consequence of the Schjälla's argument that, in the next round, the student's limit will be lifted?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e618	The representative of Lyngstad questions why this discrimination between high school students and students. It's simply because going to high school is something other than being a student at a university or at a college. As a matter of principle, high school should be free. That's what the Center Party wants to rebuild. And it's interesting when we look at how you think about elementary school and high school, that someone wants to see these races in one. Then I think there's a logic in the way we think about having the goal of doing this 13-year-old race for free. When you're a student, you're in a different regime than you are when you're a student at high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e625	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e628	I want to say three things about this matter. Firstly, I would like to thank the Committee for its commitment and good feedback, and also for the clarification given by the rapporteur on the matter. Secondly, I would like to say that I am basically quite proud of this message, which has to be seen as a conversion that follows in the wake of the conversion that has taken place in terms of study funding and student support in higher education. It is a rather formidable strengthening of the support to students in higher education, with a total of about a quarter. 400 million. kr. This year. It's, to use slightly different terms, an improvement of 35 pst. from one year to another, and I think maybe someone each could cost off looking a little positive at it. I also think it is very positive that this scheme has a strong social profile. We know well that higher education is not as free as we would like, and neither does the law say that it should be as free as basic education. However, it is an absolute objective and absolutely necessary that no one should be prevented from taking secondary education as a result of economic activity. The arrangement that lies here now represents a significant improvement for families with a weak economy, and I'm simply proud of that – I think that's right. The scheme also contains a proposal for a scholarship. We believe that, as we know, in principle is better than a loan arrangement. I have noticed the Committee's wish that we should consider a differentiation of the curriculum. We will, of course, consider that, for reasons of justice, but also for reasons of predictability, simplicity and budgetary impact. All in all, I would like to say that what we are dealing with today is a clear improvement in support for high school students, whether living away or living at home, and it is a system that can easily be filled in financially if you want to. In principle, this can be done in two ways, either by further strengthening the social profile and/or by allowing more people to benefit from the support schemes. The third thing I would like to comment on is the two significant changes that the Storting is making in relation to the government's arrangement, although I believe that the government's arrangement is largely going on, but there are two changes that require a comment. The first is to remove the maximum level of the travel allowance proposed. I take note of that, but will only make it clear that it requires a commitment in relation to the revised national budget. The second is the loan access that we've removed. We've done that because we think it's right, and that it's really a very common wish that it should happen. This, in itself, has emerged from the debate here today, even though some people disagree that it is now happening. We also believe that even if the new support does not fully compensate for what could be paid in the overall way, it is a very good compensation, which you might possibly get back to, and we have, of course, also perceived the Stortinget and the Stortinget's previous treatment as such, and given that overall there is a clear improvement here in the scholarships, and that we have to follow school years and set regulations, etc., we have done this. But I respect, of course, the desire to reintroduce the loan scheme, possibly until further notice. I note that it is technically difficult from the start of the school year, but I want to put maximum pressure on both my employees and the loan fund to get it done as soon as possible. I interpret Stortinget so that the age gap has been removed also in terms of access to loans, so that we will start from today's scheme for students under 19 years of age. This, too, requires a grant, but it will not require a deposit. But we will appropriately make the Storting aware of it as soon as this matter has been dealt with. In the end, in relation to this loan access, I would like to focus a little on how well we have, after all, compensated through a much better grant arrangement. Let me mention two examples from the year 2001 to 2002, where the parents had a total income of NOK 200000. A disembark under 19 years of age who got a total of approx. 55 000 kroner, of which more than NOK 20 000 was a loan, will receive more than NOK 49 000 in scholarships with the new regime. That's a very improvement. It's not fully compensated in the number of dollars, but it's a huge improvement in scholarships. One that is over 19 years old, with the same assumptions, would be able to pay 54 000 kroner under the previous scheme, of which 36 000 were loans, and under the new regime will receive over 49 000 kroner. It's a radical improvement. I recognise that it is correct that it is not fully compensated in crowns, but it is a radical improvement in the scholarships and the support you can get, and thus a very important handshake for families with weak economies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e647	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e651	I am pleased with the attendance shown by the Council of State towards the Committee's attitude towards following up. I also confirm her interpretation of the terms and conditions on which we base the elimination of the age gap in terms of opportunities for loans and scholarships. I also record that she confirms what has been our point in maintaining access to the loan, which the student organisations also thought had to be kept to a limited extent. The student organisations have been concerned that students should not go into debt, but they have just pointed out that as long as we do not have enough money per person. Today to go in for a compensation equal to the borrowing requirement that we assume is real, we need to maintain a loan access. Then we found out that it was too bureaucratic if you were to start making a differentiated loan access. Then it's better to assume that there's a real loan need, and that you can apply. So, in relation to prioritizing: maintaining the travel allowance without a maximum limit costs 2 million. six months. The removal of the needs test against real estate, dividends on shares, sales and gains on shares costs 2 million. kr. Should it not then, if one had been concerned with social distribution, as I understand the Council of State is now, be more appropriate to maintain the travel allowance without a maximum limit instead of removing the need test against these revenues?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e658	In addition to being a State Council, I have been on the board of the State Loan Fund, and I know that there are rather complicated transactions that you manage, so that harmonising with what are now the systems of higher education and taking simplification into account is in itself quite important. It has been important in terms of the travel visa regime and our proposal there. It has also been important in relation to personal income and its definition, that there is harmonisation in relation to higher education. But otherwise, I have to say that in terms of what has been the topic many times in the debate here, wealth, labour income, etc. and the definition of personal income, it covers a total of about 2001-2002. 446 students. So this is not a very comprehensive problem, and then it must also be important to take simplification reasons and predictability reasons, so that the loan fund is also a good bank for its customers and things to deal with a complex regulatory framework. So, both in terms of travel and this basis, harmonisation and simplification have been important.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e663	A couple of things in one minute. I have noticed what the State Council said about need-tested loan access. But we're talking about a continuation, it's not about a reintroduction. That's what the government's interpretation says, that they're almost shooting clearance through the Storting without change. So it's a question of continuing an access that's been there. However, I am counting on insurance to last, and that this can also be implemented from the beginning of school for the year 2003-2004. But to go to the opposite extreme, it's now a desire to look at a better differentiation in the cost of teaching materials related to the line chosen by the student. But in the course of it, what is the Government's strategy of reducing the general cost of teaching materials? What exactly do you do to get printed books cheaper? It's both about how they're printed – here we have the book business agreement – and of course about how often you switch books.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e672	As regards the access to the loan, I refer to my previous comments and to the comments made by the rapporteur on my comments, and I expect that that interpretation should now be reasonably agreed, so that we do not go into any ambiguities. When it comes to the differentiation of scholarships, we're going to evaluate it as you want. I understand the wish. But – again – there are over 100 possibilities on VK I and VK II, so that is a rather differentiated image. We need to look at different solutions, and we need to weigh the desire for millimeters to meet simplification and predictability. Often it is that attempts at millimetre hits actually fail, if you try to control detail so strongly. When it comes to doing something with cheaper learning materials, I would particularly like to refer to what we do in relation to ICT-based learning materials. We come back to Stortinget with an overall plan for the future ICT strategy, after we have implemented an action plan over a few years now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e681	I am very pleased that the Council of State has followed up previous budgetary positions and the comments made by the Education Committee in the past on the need to come back with a review of the upper secondary education curriculum, with a particular focus on outreach grants. There is no doubt that the big message that lies here is in many ways a strengthening in relation to what is today. I'm happy about that. But at the same time you also have a number of fields where you have weakened areas, such as: in the case of a travel step, where there is a majority today against the Government’s proposal. I would like to ask a question to the Council of State on apprentice pay. The government discusses whether apprentices' wages should continue to be counted according to their own rules on non-employment income. My question is, what will the Council of State do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e690	I have noticed the debate and the position on this with apprentice pay, where there are a few proposals. It depends on the voting order and what you decide for here in this room, so I can't say what might be adopted, but it could have some kind of admissibility. I must say, as some representatives of the government parties, that I have no major, fundamental objections to this, but it has budgetary implications. We have chosen our solution, because the apprentices have wages, unlike other students, for distribution and simplification reasons. But I would like to say that of the proposals that are available, what may be available from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, is perhaps what is most important for the apprentices, but also then with budgetary implications. But I don't know what the outcome is here in Stortinget. I just want to say, since the debate is coming to an end, that I hope that together we can help to inform about and market this new support a little, and not just what we disagree about, because it has such a big impact on families with weak economies – there are tens of thousands of dollars.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e697	In several contexts, the Council of State has talked about the overall course of primary and secondary education and has tried to reduce the transition between primary and secondary education. We know that the Quality Committee thinks that there should be moving transitions, and one should think a whole about the 13-year-old race. Then my question to the Council of State is: In primary school, the principle of free applies. Can the State Council say something about what her own party wants to strengthen in relation to the grant schemes in high school? Would you like to build on this with needs test and social profile, which I think is a good start? Does the Council of State and the Council of State have a goal of making the secondary school free of charge for everyone?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e704	I have to be so honest to say that I don't know what's in the Right Program about this, if there's anything there. But I can say what I mean. I think it would have been an advantage if training in high school too had been free or tax-funded. In other words, it is necessary to make the necessary limitations so that they are not taken out entirely in relation to the financial needs. We also think that a grant scheme is better than a loan scheme. We've explained that in many ways, and there are many who agree with us. That's why I said this is a good start, because here you can build the system further, either by giving it an even stronger poverty profile, or by expanding it to apply more, maybe eventually all. How we can expand this system and when we are going to do it will also be a budgetary issue, and it will always be balanced against other needs in society, including in the education sector. But given that we get to meet other needs that are more important, it is not against me to further expand this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e713	In letters to us, the councils have taken a certain reservation as to what the Storting could change in the government's arrangement so that it could apply from the fall of. We are primarily concerned with schemes that have been removed. I am pleased that the Council of State now says that at those points she will make every effort to get the decision of the Storting implemented. It was at some point in our problem when she went out and informed the students about what was going on from the fall. We even had questions about why we were involved. Then we just had to tell them that the Storting had not dealt with the matter. I am concerned whether the Council of State will ensure that students and carers are now assured of the opportunities they have – I don't think everyone is following the debate here today – given that there are some things that Stortinget has said should now apply from this school year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e720	Rules in relation to the Loan Fund must be laid down in February to March. We went out with this because we perceived the Stortinget so that we adhered to the principles of our proposals with one exception, namely, in terms of filling up the housing grant scheme more. I recognize we're there today. Then, of course, we will go out with new information, so that it is possible to apply, and then the applications will have to be processed. It's hard to get it done from school, so it doesn't work. But I want to put full pressure on it to get it to as fast as possible in the coming school years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e727	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3182]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e763	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3183]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e781	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3183]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e799	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3183]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e817	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3184]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e835	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3184]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e853	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3184]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e871	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3184]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e889	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3184]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e907	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3184]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e926	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3185]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e944	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3185]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e957	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e964	In the course of the debate, there are nine proposals. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Vidar Bjørnstad on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 3, by Vidar Bjørnstad, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 4, by Vidar Bjørnstad, on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals 5-9, by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen Mr Sortevik has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e982	I have reason to believe that our proposal, No. 7, from the Progress Party, falls. I would then recommend to our group that we vote subsidiaryly in favour of proposal No. 3 if need-tested loan access. Then there's a connection between proposal no. 2 and proposal No. 9th@item: inlistbox Proposal No. So 9, from the Progress Party, it's going to be a change, but not a removal of the principle of apprentice pay. If that is the case, consider proposal No. 9 first, and that's going to fall, and we're going to change the principle. Then we will remain with proposal No. 9 and leave it alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e989	The president doesn't know if he got it, but we'll take it when we get that far. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to implement measures to terminate the book-keeping agreement.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the loan fund to pay the entire first semester scholarship.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to maintain a general access to the Loan Fund for higher education students and assumes that this access applies from the school year 2003/2004.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to facilitate that assets that do not generate interest income or other income and where the assets are not marketable in the open market are not included in the needs test of loans and scholarships.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to implement a scheme of support for apprentices in secondary education, in which the percentage of gross apprentice wages and salaries deducted from aid amounts is reduced from 60 pst. to 30 pst. The size assumes that this will have an effect on the 2004 government budget from the beginning of the 2004/2005 school year.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e1029	Proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a system of equipment purchase/learning aid/learning materials to be administered by the county council. It is necessary to ensure that the use of funds reduces the cost of teaching materials, reduce the differences between the directions of study and that the cost reductions are at least as large as those received by county authorities from the country to the county.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e1044	Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to maintain the need-tested access to loans for high school students and assumes that this will apply from the school year 2003/2004.’ The President has understood that the Progress Party has notified subsidiary support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e1061	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, and the Centre Party, to voting. As there will be no subsidiary vote in respect of proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, this proposal is also addressed to voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks that the income from real estate, interest and dividends on shares, the value of the free cost and lodging or subsidies from the school for such expenses and the taxable gain from the sale of shares or residence shall continue to be included in the income base for the purpose of testing study aid.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assume that, in case of a study aid test, apprentices’ remuneration is to be included in the rules on income at work and assumes that this will apply from the school year 2004/2005.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e1110	The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left here want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e1141	It is being voted on by Mr Eva, the representative of the European Parliament. M. Nielsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, transmitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 27 May 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with proposals for amendments to the applicable private school law which include:– the school environment, equivalent provisions contained in the Training Act,– the premises adapted to disabled pupils,– the students’ right to adapted training,– the right to specific training for pupils from linguistic minorities,– the right of students to counselling,– the obligation for schools to provide child protection and social work.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e1171	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the representative Simonsen, sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 27 May 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a common training law for all pupils, covering both home, primary and secondary education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e1189	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the representative Simonsen, sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 27 May 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case on the organisation and competence of the NOCUT. The size assumes that the tasks of NOKUT shall also include the approval and supervision of all primary and secondary schools.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e1207	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the representative Simonsen, sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 27 May 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case with measures to ensure better Norwegian knowledge of children from linguistic minorities/children with immigrant background.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e1225	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the representative Simonsen, sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 27 May 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the transfer of the total financial responsibility for the school shower for primary school students to the municipalities. The majority assumes that the case also clears the financing of skyscrapers for students with disabilities or temporary injury/disease, cf. § 7-3 of the Training Act, even when municipal borders or county boundaries are crossed.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e1243	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the representative Simonsen, sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 27 May 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring forward a law ensuring that independent executives are established at all primary and secondary schools in public ownership and that representatives elected by parents/supervisors constitute a majority of such boards.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e1261	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the representative Simonsen, sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 27 May 2003: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals for a new funding system for primary and secondary schools based on the government’s paying school money for the student directly to the school that the student chooses to attend. The size requires such a funding system to include the organisation and financing of school pillows.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e1279	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the representative Simonsen, sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 27 May 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case amending the Training Act §§ 2-12, 2-13, 14-1 and 14-2 which is adapted to the content of the Law on Freestanding Schools as regards recognition and supervision.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e1298	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 27 May 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with a proposal for an organisational form for the recognition and supervision of independent schools by autumn 2003 at the latest.’ The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e1318	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 27 May 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with a bill to approve the grant of private secondary schools during the spring 2004 session.’ The President here also assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e1335	I voted incorrectly, I had to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e1342	So there are 56 votes in favour of the proposal and 43 against, and that is why the proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e1349	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 27 May 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case that discusses standards of professional achievement in all initial training relating to the follow-up to the work of the Quality Committee.’ The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against also here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11.ana.ud2242e1373	There is no record.
