ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e41	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e48	This matter is essentially about one thing: are we going to allow a government to talk in large words about tax relief, to introduce excesses, a special tax, on another public service, or are we not going to? SV means no. All the other parties agree. In addition, the Progress Party shall promote one proposal on how to dispose of this proposed fee and three proposals that address other aspects of citizenship, which the other parties do not currently discuss, but to which the Government has notified it that it will return on a later occasion. There's a bunch of principal questions in this case. Is it going to cost something to become a Norwegian citizen? Is Norwegian citizenship an asset you have to have a certain amount of money to buy? Do you have to pay when applying for visas, for example, instead of when you get them? If we want to give people who are specialists the opportunity to work in Norway, is it right to charge them a fee when applying for a work permit? Is it fair for people who come from rich countries and people who come from poor countries to pay the same amount of money when they want to visit their relatives – without knowing in advance whether they will be granted visas or not? We in the Socialist Left Party believe that the Government is wrong when it chooses to use excesses to pay for the application for a visa, citizenship and work permit. But that's what we're talking about. The main reason for introducing fees is, in my opinion, sylt thin. One will whip people to fill in forms properly and thus prevent those who do not have the basis for obtaining their applications from submitting applications, in order to reduce the amount of proceedings. Yesterday, the Director-General for Foreign Affairs, Geir Løndal, said the following in the Newspaper: ‘The Directorate of Foreign Affairs does not register groundless applications relating to citizenship or family reunification. We do not experience this as a problem» That was the pointless applications. In addition to this, it appears that there are no real statistics on the number of people who have applications submitted back and forth for treatment and who thus have incomplete applications. Nor is it stated in the article by the Directorate for Foreign Affairs that there is a manifest problem, and that it is the Directorate for Foreign Affairs that has been the driving force for implementing this change as it is mentioned here. Part of the change, including the imposition of fees for the processing of visa applications, is provided for in amendments to EU legislation and demonstrates how Norway in its policy needs to change its legislation, without having any influence over it, under EU directives. Many hearing bodies have been very critical of the introduction of this type of fees, for several reasons. The main reason for some is that a fee is introduced to ensure that when applying for a visa, you are not automatically aware of the rules and guidelines on which you can obtain a visa. For example, there are different conditions under which people are refused visas — depending on sex and the type of relationship they have with their home country. In this way, you pay to process a visa application that you do not already have the opportunity to know whether you are being granted or not. In this way, this won't work preventively, but just turn out very unfairly. In addition, several hearing bodies have pointed out that this could be unfair because of the imposition of a fee that could cause errors. For example, when you have: shall apply for a work permit, there shall be a fee to be paid. In this way, this does not work in line with what the government otherwise says it wants, namely increased labour immigration, which is also positive to SV in cases where we are talking about specialists. So all in all, here's the government that's standing together and getting a connection today to impose fees on, among other things. applications for citizenship, while SV goes against, for different reasons, as I have summarised here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e79	Int. O. No 55 it is proposed that both the Foreign Affairs Act and the Civil Law Act should be based on a legal basis so that applications under these laws can be subject to a statutory fee. It is now proposed that if you apply for Norwegian citizenship, for a residence permit, for a work permit or for a residence permit, it is possible to charge a fee to the applicant. In order to obtain a visa, a fee must also be paid today. The difference now is that this has to be paid in advance. I see from some newspapers that it is claimed that this is unreasonable. When the newspaper yesterday asked those who were in line to perform one or more of these services if they thought a fee was reasonable, the answer was of course no. It wasn't surprising. Here we're pretty much the same regardless of which country we're from. We don't like fees and we prefer to let go. The working party supports this setting. For us, it has been important to exempt certain groups. These are those who are applying for asylum and need protection. This applies to children under 18 years of age. The Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party, notes that we are asking the Government to take account of people with low pay levels in the final design of the exemption rules and ask the Council of State to note that. So to the principle by introducing fees in this area. The income this gives is approximately. Forty million. kr and should not be decisive in the State budget. The working party disagrees with SV, which says in the setting that this is to introduce an extra tax that the individual pays over the tax slip. Then we have a lot of extra taxes here in the country that should have been taken over the tax slip. Nor is it the case that taxes in Norway are used in other fields only when society wants to tax undesirable behaviour, as SV claims. We use charges and charges in a lot of areas. Many of these fees are also paid in advance, and there is no guarantee that you will get through what you are applying for. Planning and building matters are a good example of this. So what we're introducing today is nothing special compared to anything special. It is widely accepted in today's society. It is claimed that those applying for, among others. family reunification, having poor finances. In this group, as in others, it's probably right that there are some people with poor finances who need help to pay these fees. We're going to give them that, even in this field. However, I would like to take an example of the application for family reunification, for which a fee may now be charged. It came about. 15 000 to Norway at the family reunion last year. Of these, 6,500 were applying for family reunification with an ethnic Northman. To a large extent, these are men from Norway who find themselves a spouse in Thailand, in the Philippines or in another part of the world. There is nothing wrong with it, but is there any reason why we should not charge a reasonable fee on such an application, so that it will cover the costs of the State? This is hopefully something you do once in a lifetime, and should be acceptable. For the Workers' Party, it has also been important that our neighbouring countries Sweden and Denmark have introduced such fees and that there is a similar legislation within Schengen. With regard to the proposals of the Progress Party on Citizenship, the Workers' Party refers to the Innst. No 129 for 2001-2002 and believes that some of these proposals need to be examined and addressed in a more thorough manner. I expect the government to come back to this when the Stortinge receives a new citizenship permit for treatment. The Labour Party will await this treatment before we address these important questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e105	I think it is good to stress that there is a broad majority in the Committee that supports the proposal of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to impose a treatment fee on applications for citizenship, employment, residence and visa. The imposition of a fee is in many ways a quality assurance measure. It is intended to ensure that properly completed and reasoned applications are timely. The handling apparatus is currently charged, and the collection of fees could save the administration for both time and resources. Only SV chooses to disregard the fact that the Council of Europe has decided to levy a treatment fee on the submission of a visa application, not on issue, as at present. It constitutes a further development of the Schengen acquis and Norway is obliged to implement it in its national legislation. Furthermore, the imposition of the fee will be in line with practices in other Nordic countries. In foreign affairs, it is claimed from many quarters that it is important for Norway to pursue more closely the same policies as other comparable countries. This is also very relevant in this case. There is no need for Norway to appear as a country in which it is easier to stay than others. SV's argument that charging is an extra tax paid by an individual over the tax bill, in this context I believe that it is applied for and falls on its own unfairness. The starting point for the department's calculations is a fee of NOK 1000 for an application for citizenship, NOK 600 for an application for a residence, work or residence permit and NOK 600 for an application for renewal. In the hearing opinions, there was criticism of the level of fees. To that end, the amounts proposed do not differ significantly from those proposed in Denmark and Sweden. In addition, the fee would normally represent a very small extra cost compared to the cost of travelling to Norway. Several points have been dealt with by the Hearing Officers. Like the Department, the Right also sees it as an advantage to cost the same if the application is submitted for the first time or if it is an application for renewal. Different rates would be unnecessary bureaucracy here. Furthermore, it is good that the hearing bodies were provided with the means to ensure that no fee should be charged to children under the age of 18 years, whether in the case of an application for authorisation under the Foreign Affairs Act or in the case of a request for citizenship. Such a proposal would make the situation unreasonable for minors and difficult for families with children. Adoption cases will also not have to be charged. I am somewhat surprised that the Progress Party has not been able to support this part of the case. It is equally strange that the Progress Party cannot be with the majority and express support for the exclusion of asylum applications. The residence proposed by the Foreign Affairs Act shall not, as is known, apply to applications for asylum, since this could result in the removal of third-country nationals with a real need for protection from applying for protection in Norway. According to the Department, the collection of fees in such cases would be contrary to the 1951 United Nations Convention on Refugees. It will in any case be a moral question. I note that the Progress Party does not see it in the same way, but I believe that the party will answer for itself. As mentioned earlier, the Progress Party has put forward a number of other proposals that are not related to this fee case, and I am asking questions about the formalities. But in any case, there is an untimely mix, not least because the Storting will later deal with the Civil Law and the law on changes in the Foreign Affairs Act. There will be plenty of opportunity in these cases to promote relevant views in the right context. On this background, the Right does not want to enter these discussions now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e124	Unfortunately, the undersigned must also use much of his speaking time in this debate to argue against total unprofessional attacks by the pulpit, especially from the last speaker. The fact that a right-wing representative performs to stand on the pulpit and say that it is ‘untimely’ by a elected elected, elected, representative of the Progress Party to make proposals in the Norwegian National Assembly is very alarming, because it is entirely in line with all formalities. That the Right does not itself manage to capture positions and make its own decisions cannot be used for attacking the Advance Party. It's not time! The Progress Party supports the adjustment in relation to the imposition of a fee. We do that simply because, unlike SV, we see citizenship as something very important. We do not want citizenship to be given away completely uncritically. That is why we also support the introduction of a fee. That's the one argument. The second thing, of course, goes on exactly the same as the representative eye also said. So in a number of other areas, we have a fee, and we think it's reasonable that a fee is also introduced in this area, so that the public gets paid for its services. At the same time, the Progress Party promotes proposals for alternative methods of using any income, which the Storting votes against today. We see that it is possible to use revenue to provide information to all those who may be in a situation where they wish to apply for citizenship, work permit or residence in Norway, or in other areas relating to immigration. With regard to the other proposals of the Progress Party, there will be little time to address them. I think it is only right to say that it is regrettable that other parties are not open to take decisions on the basis of some of those proposals, at least, particularly the proposal that goes on the indirect acceptance of polycony by Norway. It should have been easy for all the parties to go in for the little legislative change now, because I think all the parties actually reacted to what was revealed in this area last autumn. And I am not so sure that the sample, which is now sitting and handling this, was aware of that matter. But since it has now been said by several that one should bring this back to Stortinget at a later date, we get to trust it. According to the evening post yesterday, at least the representatives of the Workers' Party and the Right were willing to discuss and perhaps accept the kind of change when the matter comes to consideration in Stortinget. I also want to note SV's claims that this is an introduction of a new tax. If so, I find it very strange that SV could not go in for it, because it would really be the right starting point for SV! But it is clear that we are different in these areas – and it is not right, as the SV representative says, that taxes, taxes and fees are introduced because we must prevent unacceptable behaviour. I asked SV and the representative Holmås to study all the fees and charges we have applied for. I just end by saying that the Progress Party will, of course, come back when the position on citizenship and citizenship comes to an end in the Stortinget – in that context we are likely to be accused of promoting the same proposals so many times that it is in a way premature. But I promise we'll do that. I would also like to comment on a few things that the representative from the Right came along with, for example. that we do not participate and support in other areas. It could be that the Progress Party has assessed it so that these are areas where we want a greater assessment and investigation before we make a decision, in line with what the Right does in all other cases. In addition, I would find it interesting if the representative from the Right could show which conventions regulate the Norwegian Foreign Law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e146	The President will ask Per Sandberg if he wants to address the proposals he has now referred to several times?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e149	I'm sorry, President! This is starting to become a habit. Of course, I am promoting the proposals we have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e154	Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e157	As has been said before, this case concerns the introduction of a fee in the case of applications for citizenship, the application for leave of residence, the unemployed and the conditions of establishment, and their renewal. Such a fee would therefore be in line with arrangements in the Nordic countries and beyond in accordance with the Council of Europe decision. And so far, it's like it tends to be in Norway: if you want something, you have to pay for the treatment. The revenue is already incorporated in the budget entered in the budget. Fortunately, the government gets, I think, multiples for this new item of income, even if it's overtime, we get to admit it – the matter should be dealt with in parallel with the budget. I honestly think that most of the things that can be said about this matter are now said. I'm not going to extend the debate, but when the Progress Party has the ability to address a number of other aspects of the Civil and Foreign Law, I don't want to say that it's premature, exactly – the majority think it's unnecessary because these matters are partly announced by the Government. It is not least the case of bigami, which has been in force, and which is something that at least the Christian People's Party does not agree with. Thus, I would just like to end by saying that I recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e166	The practice in the other Nordic countries, as it is produced in Ot.prp. No 19, which means that the Centre Party will provide in-principal support for the introduction of a processing fee under the Foreign Affairs Act and the National Civil Code. The Ministry outlines a two-stage hearing scheme to get a system with a fee in place. The first hearing round as the basis for the legislative proposal has been implemented. So the Department of Proposition announces a new hearing round on how to implement a fee scheme. The proposal for a decision today states that the law will apply immediately. We assume that the laws will not be in force until the second round of the hearing is completed and followed up, and I ask the Council of State to confirm it. We will also ask that the Council of State in its further work focus on the following: First, much better information about what an application should contain. Juss-Buss writes among others following: ‘By virtue of the Administrative Act, public guidance is required. When there is insufficient guidance, inadequate applications will also be made. It is not easy for an outsider to know all the conditions and what must be attached to the application when not receiving such information.» I beg the Council of State to note that. Secondly, information that it is subject to a processing fee. Both the Juss-Buss and the MiRA Centre's points, that a person is at risk of paying for something that he does not get, seem to be something easily commented by the Department of Proposition. Specific information is required. Thirdly, avoid that there are the poorest ones that are framed here too. A range of instances, including several bishops, pointing to the burden of fees for people with low salary levels. We ask the Council of State to consider how it can follow this up with the ultimate design of the regulations. Fourthly, make use of the privacy of citizenship laws. We have already taken up the uriistic and bureaucratic practices that currently apply to individuals in international professions, who do not meet the requirement of settlement for long enough periods to qualify for citizenship today, even if it is lawful to take care of it. When a fee is introduced, the right of access should also be used, so that they get this debt, not get an unreasonable extra cost at each stop in Norway. The government keeps the application for asylum aside from the fee proposals. Otherwise, it would just be missing! Applications for children under 18 years of age are also proposed as a result of the hearing. I hope that the next round of hearings will help the government not only sharpen the information itself, but also the contents of the process. It still seemed to be a time for everyone who is searching for a visa or a family union to meet with the negligent and necessary respect that is a state worthy of justice. In this case, the Progress Party has put forward several proposals for amendments to civil law. The central party will come back to a closer assessment of changes to this law when the government submits it to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e191	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that Odelstinget has given its support – as it now looks – to the proposal to introduce a fee for applications under the Foreign Affairs Act and the application for citizenship. When SV tries to describe this as a tax and says that this is a tax that would rather be paid over the tax slip, I would like to stress that at least there is no tax like right-wing people have ever defined a tax. This is a procedural fee. And the interesting thing is that many of the applicants won't pay taxes as an alternative. It is precisely those who come from other countries and have tax obligations to other countries, and it is therefore not relevant that those who live here pay taxes instead. Nor is it the case that the fee is a charge and that charges are applied in other fields when society wants to tax undesirable behaviour. That's not the starting point here. It is a procedural fee. It is known from a wide range of other areas of society, e.g. in the case of building permits and patents. Sweden, Denmark and most other European countries have such fees today, both in the case of applications under foreign law and in the case of applications for citizenship. I particularly want to say something about visa applications. Norway is a participant in Schengen cooperation and it gives us international legal obligations to impose application fees. Of course, you could say that it's a bad thing that we're required to do things that we're not a member of, but that's what this country and the Stortinget have agreed to. This excludes the decision-making process, at least the formal bodies, but has been chosen to be associated with Schengen. When Schengen has then chosen to go from a payment for a visa granted to a fee payment upon application, Norway has to follow up. I don't think it's very worrying about the amounts we're talking about here. For a three-month visa, this is EUR 30, or NOK 220. Relatively, compared to what it will cost for most people to come to Norway, for example. on visits, I think it must be surviving for most. We make other demands for support and entertainment, and we have to show that we have the opportunity to survive in Norway, and that is that we should have at least this amount available. In addition, there could have been a consequence in Schengen cooperation that more people could choose to apply to Norway, if they had the opportunity, and avoid a fee if everyone else had had it, if it had been theoretically possible. I have noted the Workers' Party and the Central Party's remark that the Government will take into account the additional burden that the fee will incur for people with a low wage level in the final design of the exemption rules. We have done so in the proposal here, because this will focus in particular on matters relating to minors and families with multiple children. In this context, we have proposed provisions requiring children under the age of 18 to be exempted from the obligation to pay a fee. The proposal in respect of the fee rates themselves is now being consulted. We're going to go over it and see if there were any other groups in the hearings that it's easy to scramble out. But at the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in the case of family reunification, the majority of the Stortnings have made a profit in their budgetary options, at least the Labour Party, the Government Parties and the Advance Party, because they have gone in order to impose acquisition requirements, to demand that they be able to support their families, so that they will already make greater financial demands than would be the pay-out for this fee. Let me briefly say about the comment of the Progress Party that the net revenue from fees is to be used for information measures: I think it is very important that we have information measures. I agree that we should have better service in the foreign administration, better guidance, and we are working a lot to get the service settings to. I actually believe that there have been quite significant improvements in the last year in that particular area, because it has been in focus. However, the revenue from these fees is collected from the budgets of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because applications are received by the police and foreign agencies. In principle, we are opposed to earmarking that kind of revenue, because there may be different areas that are important to give priority to a budgetary context that does not necessarily require some parts that are earmarked. Then I would like to say that I think the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa referred to the wrong area where there has been a dispute relating to the practice in relation to bureaucracy and discretion. It must have been the Foreign Affairs Act and not the Civil Law Act. In the case we have discussed earlier, there has never been any doubt that the person concerned could apply for Norwegian citizenship at any time and get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e206	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e209	My question to the Council of State is three-thirds. I heard the Council of State say that there is evidence that there has now been a better procedure. I would like to ask the Council of State to say something more about how it can be documented in relation to the processing time, procedures, etc. There may be signals that indicate the opposite. Then I will challenge the Council of State on the general part of immigration policy. It could seem like the government and the government act like a diurnal fly. People are out very quickly and signal changes in immigration policy and then withdraw immediately. It looks a bit like the funky thing that's out there singing sometimes, and then the door closes again. Not least I can show that a few days ago, the Council of State was out and signalled tightening. When are we going to see these restrictions in the form of proposals for the Storting that directly intervene in immigration policy? And when are we going to stop experiencing that the Council of State in time and in vain, to use an expression that has been used earlier today, signals to the Norwegian people that the Government is going to take some action, which is not being done? I would also challenge the Council of State at the same time as I did in relation to the representative from the Right earlier today: What are the conventions governing the Norwegian Foreign Law? Norway’s expertise in law clearly states that there are no conventions that can regulate the law on foreigners. Here, Norway has its full and complete sovereignty to decide who will be allowed to stay, when they will be allowed to stay, and how they will be allowed to stay. I'm starting to get really annoyed that in many debates I'm meeting the argument that we're breaking conventions if we do what the Progress Party wants to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e220	The President has some doubts as to whether the definition of ‘grooming in the gourmet’ is a proper parliamentary expression. The President may think that the Sandberg representative is in favour of finding other characteristics that are more appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e223	The President now deprived me of the opportunity to say that we might have been several objects on that track in that case. I would first like to say that I did not actually say that it can be documented better service. But I believe that a lot of people give signals that there is an improvement in the foreign administration. There is a strong focus on this in terms of service. The ability to reach the UDI per telephone and contact with case handlers has improved significantly compared to what it was in 2001, as it was one of the major critical points. As far as the time of proceedings is concerned, there is an improvement in all matters other than asylum. There is a huge gap between countries in the types of issues that come. It has something to do with the fact that it sometimes takes a long time to document backgrounds, such as: when we got 600 Mongols and had no interpreter available. It automatically takes a considerable longer time to get something done. However, in all other cases, there has been a significant decrease in the length of proceedings since 2001. One example is family reunification, which was at the time for 15 months of proceedings and is now between five and six months. So in relation to changes in the law: what I said in an interview with TV 2 Saturday night is that in relation to travel and what we hear reported about, that people go home on vacation when they are asylum seekers, or that soon after they have been given a stay that has a protective status, travels back and forth, it seems obvious that there is a need to tighten up the practice that has been. We're going to regulate that within the system that we have today. But then I would like to remind you that the system we have today, which has been adopted in this process, makes any intensification in areas that go specifically to the law and regulation system – and that's the only way you can do it, in relation to practice management – take at least nine months to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e236	I notice that State Council Erna Solberg says that the purpose of introducing this is that there should be a processing fee, and a processing fee has nothing to do with taxes and charges, there are two completely different things. We can probably discuss that until we get yellow and blue, but the main point is that that's not what the council says in the odelstations proposition is the purpose of implementing the odelstations proposition. Because it says: ‘The aim of introducing a fee to apply is to reduce the level of incomplete and manifestly groundless applications. This will save management time and resources.’ However, there is no evidence — no evidence — that manifestly groundless and inadequate applications are a major problem in administration. On the contrary, UDI said yesterday in the newspaper that the opposite is the case, there is no big problem. They spend a lot of resources informing people about how to do these things. Then I think this is a piece of work on the part of the Council of State and an example of right-wing thinking in which market mechanisms are used blindly and uncritically in all contexts. The market mechanisms actually have the disadvantage that those who have little money cannot afford to use this service. It's not really all right and one of the things that several hearings have pointed out. I think that at least in Stortinget we have a requirement for some kind of minimum level of documentation when the Government introduces a law and it is said that the main purpose is ‘to reduce the amount of defective and manifestly groundless applications’. This tastes more like the government has seen that there are revenues to pick up, and then you stick your finger in the air and know where the wind blows, and say that this is something we have the opportunity to get an impact on the Stortinget. There's a completely different reason than the Minister's present to the Stortinget here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e248	When I define this as a processing fee, it's to show that this is something other than a fee or a tax. Then it's like I disagree with UDI, and I disagree with the requirements and the examples previously shown to the department, that it's actually a problem that you get poor and not good enough applications. Among other things, there have been frequent applications for citizenship long before one has been in this country long enough to apply for it. But such an application has to be formally dealt with when it comes, and it has to be answered. It requires a certain degree of routine. What UDI has presented to me in the past is that there has been a problem that incomplete applications have been made, which, of course, could have been decided at an earlier date with better guidance. But it takes more. The threshold for applying is low when there is no economic side and a financial payment related to this type of application. This means that you will seek this guidance in a better way than what you are doing today. So let me briefly answer what I did not get the answer to in the previous line, which is: What conventions bind our refugee treatment? The UN Convention on Refugees binds it, the European Convention on Human Rights binds the way we deal with these matters, and the Convention on the Rights of Children, which we are implementing, is going to bind parts of this. It's not that once we've given our consent to it, it's easy to jump out of it again. Once we have signed international conventions, it is more in Norway left to the judiciary to define whether a new law is in line with or not with these conventions, these international obligations. In these matters we could have said we had sovereignty, but what we could have experienced then was that the cases could have been tried in the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e259	I listen with interest to the Council of State's reply to SV. The central party does not want to give its support to the Council of State's founding when it relates to 'clearly groundless', which it is therefore inconsistent with the UDI at present, as it stands out. Nor did we think there was any good reason to introduce a fee to say that there are so many leftovers in the UDI. In both of these areas, the Department and the UDI themselves must be able to clean up, if necessary with even more resources than the proposed ones. However, we found that fairly common practices between the Nordic countries are a reason for charging. The council is right to point out that I used the wrong law in my request. There are a few in international professions that are unable to meet the requirement to be out of the country for just seven months in three years, and therefore have to renew their right of establishment again and again. It is those I believe the Council of State should either change the practice of – it is possible in current legislation – or at least should grant exemptions for fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e266	I believe the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa connected the answers to two different questions. I have not even justified the large balances in the UDI with the fees, precisely because the fee revenue does not go directly to the foreign treatment, but goes into the matter. On the other hand, it was a question of whether we had received better service, and whether we had managed to work better. I believe that to the extent that it will affect the balances, this will affect the release of time from matters that should not have been dealt with, i.e. the need to deal with applications for which there is no basis at all, for example. an application for citizenship after only three years of residence in Norway, where decisions must be taken in any case and where information must be returned. In this way, this balance indirectly increases by having to have a longer time to deal with, because you can get rid of some tasks that you could not have done. So to the question of the Foreign Affairs Act. We have asked the Foreign Law Committee to look at this question since those who deal with matters in this type of individual matter under the Foreign Affairs Act have not given consideration to the person who has applied for it. With regard to the issue of regulating this, so that in this type of case you are exempted from paying a fee, I will look into whether there is an opportunity, and whether it is practicable to limit it to that, when we go through the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e273	I note that the Council of State will give away Norwegian sovereignty over its own legislation, as the Council of State says that some conventions are governed by Norwegian law. I also note that the Council of State does not agree with the trade union committee, i.e. Norway's highest expertise, which concludes that international law and human rights conventions are subject to Norwegian legislation. - Interesting! When, in the previous line, I called for action in relation to all the plays that the Council of State and the Government have included in the general immigration policy, it was not only the play that came in the last weekend in relation to travel activities – it is so much interesting – but also a whole series of other games that have come in the last year. I'm not least thinking about what we have today's proposal, which concerns multi-series. Also there was the Council of State out there and said that we should immediately grasp this. It was also the Minister of Justice. Now there is a proposal on the table, and I note that the party of the Council of State does not want to take a stand on this matter. What I record in relation to the Council of State and the Government, and I must say, is that the Council of State is avoiding the debate. In a number of contexts, the Council of State has refused to take part in a public debate with individual parties. I think that's a little alarming. That is why my question is to the Council of State: is it now that this government will continue to try to put a lid on the debate on immigration and integration policy, in line with Sweden, so that at some point it will give a bomb? I will finally challenge the Council of State in relation to this statement on travel activities that she made this last weekend. Is it the case that the Government wants to tighten up the type of travel activity, so that it applies to all countries and not only to the country from which it comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e284	I see no reason why anyone who has received protection in Norway on the basis of the situation in Iran, Iraq or the Middle East should be prohibited from travelling to Sweden. This can therefore not apply to all countries. But we're looking at the extent to which we can tighten up the definitions and practices, because the law is clear. A need for protection is needed, and a need for protection is denied if you return to your home country in a close time after receiving a residence permit in Norway based on a need for protection. We're going to write terms. I don't want to conclude how far we can go, because we have to do the law work to get that job done, so that we get a proper and proper code. There will also be a time perspective in relation to these matters, a time perspective which, of course, is that if the situation has changed and there has been a time, it is not that going home should not be allowed, because it would be very counterproductive if you got into a situation where people start thinking about whether to go home to their home country. So we have to make sure that we have made all the assessments of the whole of foreign policy before we determine how such a regulation should be. So until the issue of conventions is general or secondary Norwegian law. What is important is that in individual cases these international conventions and our treatment will always be evaluated. Whereas, in relation to laws, derogations must be made explicitly from those and those parts of the Conventions which have been adopted; All Conventions have been adopted in this Chamber. In this way, some principles have been applied. Then we always get a discussion about how to interpret these principles, and how far they should be drawn. But in fact, the more international conventions we join, the more power we give to those who administer the law in Norway, and a little less power to the legislators in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e294	I'm sorry, but the Council of State can't convince me that a pile of applications that are both groundless and incomplete is a big enough problem to justify the introduction of a fee, a procedural fee or an additional tax – call it, if you want – of 48.5 million. kr from people, whether they're Norwegians or not. They're pretty much not because they're going to apply for exactly this. I have not understood that it is a tradition in the Right Circle to create an additional code and introduce additional fees and processing fees without being well documented. And so it is not the case that the Council of State, either here today or in the papers that have been submitted, has been able to produce one single document, one good evidence that shows that the problem of incomplete and groundless applications is so great that it justifies the imposition of such a fee as has been proposed. So I challenge the state council again: is this a grip you've just taken to draw in 48.5 million. kr, or does the Council of State manage to provide good enough documents to convince me that this is actually a huge problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e301	Fortunately, it's not that Heikki Holmås we're going to convince to get a majority in Stortinget. It is a broad majority in the UK that believes that the basis we have laid before the Storting is good enough. There is a broad majority in other countries who have considered this to be correct, as our neighbouring country has introduced the same. Then I will also live with the fact that I have not convinced Heikki Holmås in this matter. I just want to comment on something that was said in the article from Per Sandberg, saying no to debate. I have said no to participate in debates on the Mulla Krekar case, because we have not made a final decision. I think it's completely unreasonable to sit and discuss a matter where I might be involved in making a final management decision, with other politicians, before we're actually done concluding on such a case. I think it would be very wrong if a Council of State went into an open political debate in such a case. What we have done is to inform about the basis for prior notice in this case. And to say it again, I have said no to meet Per Sandberg for debate, and that was to debate integration policy in the light of a killing in the Somali environment. It was a point of value to me. I do not think that was the basis for an immigration policy debate related to it. The events of the last weeks among the Norwegians should indicate that there was also no correct timing of the TV station asking about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e308	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e313	I take the word now, because there were a couple of posts in the hall attached to the argument of SV, that is, my argument and what others took up, which I feel there is a need to answer. It is linked, for example, to: to what Kari Lise Holmberg said. She does, in my opinion, the classic taboo when discussing these kinds of questions. It's that she's wasting all of the different elements together. What Kari Lise Holmberg said, was that it is very important that we introduce all these fees, for it must not be easier to stay here than in other countries. But this initially has nothing to do with staying. It's about making us introduce it now, we're making it more expensive for people initially. It will discourage people from coming from other countries from applying for visas for, for example: to come to Norway and spend longer or shorter time in Norway. That's the visa bit in this. In relation to work, the Right has said that in general, there is a great deal of work migration. They have that in their program. However, they feel it is important to introduce a fee that will discourage people from applying for a work permit, a fee that will result. In addition, after seven years, you have the opportunity to apply for citizenship in Norway and will then, as a general rule, be granted it. I cannot understand that it is good policy to introduce a fee that will clearly lead to people who come, who have little income, making a proper balance to see if you are going to apply for citizenship or if you are going to push it. I think it's great that people living in Norway want to become Norwegian citizens. I think those people should be. Then I see no reason for us to introduce a fee that will work negatively in that context. Then I have to say one thing to Per Sandberg. I just get a little angry when Per Sandberg says that SV uncritically wants everyone to be granted citizenship in Norway. What's that? If you think you should regulate what kind of people are going to get citizenship, you make rules for it. A fee is not imposed which means that if you have a lot of money, you can get Norwegian citizenship, and if you don't have enough money to cover this fee, you won't get this citizenship. This is the blind market thinking that, in my opinion, is humming for the debate. The right thing would be to say that if you think we have good reasons why people shouldn't get it, it shouldn't be based on the economy of people, but based on whether they meet the requirements or not. Finally, I would like to give a warning as to what Erna Solberg had to say. That's what goes on a visa. So today, we are an obstacle to people who want to stay and who want asylum, and limit the possibility for people to come to another country for asylum. There might be an even bigger problem with these fees that we're now introducing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e328	I feel the need, only for the debt of the order in relation to the argument put forward when it comes to the imposition of a fee, to quote from the proposition: ‘The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs considers it desirable to introduce a fee for the processing of other types of applications under the Foreign Affairs Act. The case-handling apparatus is currently suffering from arrears. It will be possible, by introducing a fee to apply, to reduce the amount of defective and manifestly groundless applications. These include: to expect applicants to put more pre-work into an application so that it is fully completed and all the necessary information is available before taking any steps to submit the application. This could save management time and resources.’ In my view, what is stated here cannot be understood in any other way than that, in addition to other arguments, the Council of State also uses this with leftovers as an independent argument for charging. Our path is separated in this matter. We mean that the main cause is her identification of the fees that are in our neighboring countries. Then I have to say that I am pleased that the Council of State is now pointing out that it is going to be open to changes in relation to the regulations that are now being heard. In the previous round, she has shown that she is open; she has changed the legislative proposal and waived applications for children under 18 years of age. And in the debate here there are more, including: The Labour Party and the Centre Party pointed to the question of openness on the second point. I look forward to her carefully considering further changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e340	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e348	The odelsting should then go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e355	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-4, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party. The President first takes note of the proposals. 2-4. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks that the net revenue relating to the introduction of the processing fee for applications for authorisation under the Foreign Affairs Act and for the application for authorisation of, or solution from, Norwegian citizenship be used as a whole for relevant information measures to the target group of the fees intended to apply, as well as general information measures to groups that abuse the schemes under the Norwegian Foreign Law, including groundless asylum seekers.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to introduce language testing and acquisition requirements as a condition for obtaining Norwegian citizenship.’; Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to remove the opportunity to hold both Norwegian and foreign citizenship.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e385	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In Law No. 8 December 1950 No. 3 on Norwegian national law shall be replaced by the following provisions: 22. has resided in the Kingdom for the last 10 years from the date of his lawful retirement.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e432	The Socialist Left Party has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e445	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Socialist Left will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-27-lower.ana.ud1856e459	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
