ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e17	The representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e36	Unfortunately, this case is an example of the fact that symbolism policy is far more important than reality, and in this case too, unfortunately, the Progress Party is all alone in supporting the position of our leading professional body, NVE. Following an overall assessment of the plans and the opinions available, the NVE has found that the benefits and benefits of the measures under option 5 are greater than the damage to the general interest. The NVE therefore recommends that the Kvinnherad Energie be allowed to build and operate a new Muradalen power plant after option 5 and to expropriate it for the necessary reasons for a new power station and auxiliaries. It is also recommended that the proposed modification be authorised, i.e.: that the current vehement in the Black Sea is replaced by a bottling tunnel. In addition, it is recommended that the Energy Chain of Women be allowed to acquire parts of the case which have not already been acquired and to expropriate those falling rights which have not already been acquired. The NVE’s overall assessment also includes the consequences of electrical installations necessary for the construction of new Muradalen power plant and that, in the NVE’s assessment, these do not cause damage of such a scale that it is essential for the authorisation of the requested measure. Hordaland County Municipality and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs have both supported the NVE's position. The municipality of the Kingdom of Great Britain also supports this setting, with the exception of the decommissioning of the Svartavatnet. As I said at the outset, there must be symbolic policies that are the reason why two state councils have rejected the application from the Women's Heater Energy. I wonder if they have been on site and see what this really is about. I would therefore ask the Council of State to state in its statement whether he has been on the spot and taken part in the case, and what is the real reason for the rejection. I can't see that this is well-founded by the ministry. The Committee has been reviewing and seeing for itself that this is not a significant intervention. Many of the changes planned will actually improve today's situation, with a bad concrete block of an old power station and shimmering pipes on top of the ground. Clearly, there has been a record of success in the matter, so the facts in the matter obviously have no significance. The matter has been referred to in the media as if this modernization and upgrading were to destroy the impression of the beautiful town of Rosendal with the Baronite as the tourist magnet. The project is far from Baronian and will have no negative impact on this. The power of the media, however, is great. A TV channel showed some time back beautiful pictures from the Baronian, and then lifted the camera against the beautiful foot in the background. The viewers could get the impression that this fox was going to be put in a pipe, which, of course, is not right, because it is located in a completely different location and is not affected by this project at all. When such wrong visual instruments are used, I actually understand that someone is opposed to the project. I had, however, expected the decision to be taken in the course of the proceedings to take account of the facts and not such false impressions. This case again shows that the beautiful words of the Government and the majority of the population to bet on upgrading and extension of existing power plants are, unfortunately, completely meaningless when it comes to the problem. With this, I would like to promote the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e55	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e58	SV also increases the setting in this case, and we are happy that we can put the ball to death in this way. I would just like to point out a comment that SV is not in, which is linked to a coordination of Rosendal and surrounding waterworks plans about a water treatment plant, and which is not yet in a position to build one. Therefore, SV choose to stand outside of this comment with regard to such coordination.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e65	Power development in the Hatteberg watercourse with a production of 8.5 GWh – how could such a case end up in Stortinget? That was my first reaction when I read St.meld. No 23rd Last@item: The reason why this is a matter in Stortinget is the department's refusal and the extension of Section 8 of the Watercourse Regulation Act after two government councils in different governments have rejected the application. The Women's Heated Municipality is the sole owner of the Women's Heated Energy, which is a distribution company, a company that gives good returns into a slumped municipal fund. For this reason, we see that local politicians from several political parties have changed their view of using more local values through increased power generation. The ownership of the energy company suggests that it is a political decision to promote this matter for the Stortinget. Experiences will be sought in the future. At a time when most of us consume more than we really have, the issue of quality of life becomes more visible when all basic needs are met. The area in which we are located has great qualities – from the spring outside Rosendal, past Baroniet, through Muradalen, past the power plant and up the mountain, a pearl in Norwegian nature that must not be destroyed. Granting concession to development on the basis of the NVE recommendation, option 5, will result in a reduction of the Black Water and will be a significant intervention in this area. Therefore, the centre party cannot support such a proposal. The inspection committee was on 19 May, stressing the quality of the area. The Ministry has done the right thing by referring to the national concerns of the landscape and the natural and cultural memory environment in the region. On the other hand, there were two areas that were illuminated, and which are not part of the basis that is dealt with in this case, naturally enough, as these are moments that have come into the afterlife and are not formally contained in the application. First, no one can say that the actual power station is some aesthetic pleasure where it is today. I will not claim that the beauty was absent when the station was built 50 years ago, but it would be wrong to say that the building contributes to the separation of the area. It is therefore necessary to provide solutions for the construction of a new power station that is much better integrated into the landscape. So it's not just the input into the power station that you need to replace. The other area that was briefed was the municipality’s need for a new water treatment plant. The waterworks' plans are to build sewage treatment plants just below where the power station is currently located. The letter from Rosendal and surrounding waterworks dated 26 May confirms this. The centre party joins the majority in the vote, which says that it is not advisable for the Storting to decide on the facts of the new letter as part of the processing of the Storing Message. But we can probably expect a formal application to the Ministry of Oil and Energy to look at the possibility of coordinating sewage treatment plants and upgrading Muradalen power plants. All reason is that one here has to find common solutions that protect both interests. There will also be a benefit if the current network through the Mura Valley is put in ground cable, while creating new pipes for water supply. In such interaction, it should be possible to re-examine Option 6 developed by Women's Heated Energy. In addition to the fact that you can take out some more pure force, this option appears to be better for the environment as a whole, compared to how it feels today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e88	The question of further expansion in the Hatteberg watercourse has been the subject of significant involvement even after the watercourse was protected by the Stortinget in 1993. In the big news of power development in the Hatteberg watercourse, it has been necessary for the government to ask the Stortinget to say no to watercourse regulation and expansion, as Women's Herad Energie advocates. Here, therefore, the Government has achieved a different outcome than in the other watercourse extension case the Stortinget has dealt with today. The background to the Government's position is that strong protection and environmental considerations ensure that the Hatteberg watercourse is not to be extended. The representative, Vaksdal, asks a rhetorical question about whether I have been on that watercourse. Unfortunately, he does not get the answer he hoped for. Well, I've been there, I've seen the power plant, and I've also gone up the Mura Valley, but I haven't been on a regular inspection. I was there in my own interest. It's a little special to deflect a power plant from the committee that has so few GWh with it. That's probably 18 to 20 times the size of what the Storing is going to adopt in the case of Sauda. The Hatteberg watercourse has a unique location between fjord and mountain. It is located between Folgefonna and Baroniet in Rosendal. It has significant natural qualities, including from a national perspective. It is this central location in this area, combined with the existence of significant cultural memories, which make the Government come to this conclusion. It is important to facilitate natural experiences in such areas without further development. The government is not negative to exploit our rich hydropower resources even better as long as this occurs without unacceptable negative environmental impacts. We also have to look at the size of the projects. We're referring to our position in the Sauda case that we've just dealt with, which is 18-20 times larger than what we're talking about here. However, our willingness to look at the hydropower resources does not mean that the Government will expand hydropower at any cost. Each case must be assessed on an independent basis. In this case, a previous government has also assessed the project. The assessment criterion under the Watercourse Regulation Act is whether damage or disadvantages to public or private interests are considered to be of minor importance in relation to the benefits of the measure. The project in the Hatteberg watercourse, which Women's Herad Energie has appealed for the Stortinget, is correctly placed in Category I of the Total Plan, but I would remind you that it will not automatically lead to a concession being granted. All injuries and disadvantages must be weighed against the benefits of the concessional treatment. With regard to the power-building project in the Hatteberg district, we found, after an overall assessment of the different considerations, that environmental and natural quality considerations had to outweigh the need for a slightly more regenerative force in the Norwegian power system. The government cannot therefore support a project for upgrading and extension that has unacceptable negative environmental effects, as we believe is the case in this case. I am aware that the Women's Heated Energy is concerned with upgrading the Muradalen power plant. I agree with all the descriptions of the lack of aesthetic beauty at the power plant. I refer to the opinions of the majority of the Committee on the possible coordination of the plans of Rosendal and surrounding waterworks for a water treatment plant in Muradalen combined with any upgrading of the power plant. Such an application, if any, must, of course, normally be assessed on the basis of the criteria of the Water Resource Act for intervention in sheltered watercourses. Any measure must therefore not conflict with the protection values of the watercourse. I assume that the Women's Heater Energy will notice the Storting's views and conclusions today, as a guide for later possibilities. It is important that we take care of the protective values in the Hatteberg watercourse. I am therefore very pleased that such a broad majority of the Committee shares my assessment of the natural qualities of the area and has joined the Government's recommendation to reject the complaint for further development in this watercourse.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e109	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e112	After this I will not use my three minutes. I just want to say that this case is small. It should not have been in Stortinget in many ways. On the one hand, we agree with the Council of State that there are high levels of protection in the Rosendal area. On the other hand, it is quite clear, as it also appears in the notes, which are very graphically described: ‘The actual power station building can hardly be said to be an aesthetic innovation’. That's what I'm going to end up with. And I think it's very good if the Council of State now takes this opportunity to coordinate with the water treatment plant, so that you get a good solution to this that doesn't destroy the natural resources, but at the same time makes you get a more modern and better use of power and avoid having some rusty pipes and a bad building standing there. I therefore hope that we do not see this case again, but that there will be a solution to this that the parties can find acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e126	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 3437]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e142	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e149	Let me start by giving honor to the proposers in this matter. Sometimes Document No. 8 proposals – I believe – actually contribute to destroying a good cause, but this time the proposers have contributed to putting a case on the agenda that Stortinget might not otherwise have had the opportunity to discuss. Let me also say that I am very pleased that the government parties have also gone into the matter with a positive attitude, so that today we have an adjustment marked by unanimity. The Committee has assumed that we already have a comprehensive regulatory framework for labelling the energy efficiency of products. This so-called A-G marking system is governed by the Product Control Act and the Trade Act. It includes refrigerators, freezers and their combinations, lamps and dishwashers. This legislation is constantly evolving and up-to-date in the EEA area, and the Committee points out in its recommendation that the Ministry will follow up and participate actively in the further work in the EU on setting energy efficiency and labelling requirements. So we have both efficiency requirements and labelling requirements. But what is not satisfactory today is the control that this is actually being followed up. That is why I would like to stress in particular that the Committee stresses the need for a control system that ensures that traders both mark all the goods in a good way and check that the products are properly labelled. Studies conducted by SIFO show that products are systematically labelled as more energy-efficient than they actually are. During the committee proceedings on this matter, it has also been found that the NVE has not so far allowed these investigations to be published. I am pleased that during the discussion of this matter we have received a letter of response from the Department indicating that the Government will now provide a control system based on transparency. Furthermore, the labelling regime must be better known than today, and the Committee stresses the importance of this being a work that takes place through cooperation with both importers and shops or chains. As I said, I am very pleased that a unanimous committee is in favour of both a control regime and that the labelling regime is becoming better known. This alone is not such a big measure, but in total it will be an important contribution to reducing electricity consumption in Norway. So the Socialist Left Party has got the intentions of the proposal well followed up, sail if they probably won't be 100 pst. Pleasure. The Committee also points out in its opinion that the above measures need to be followed up as quickly as possible, and asks the Ministry to report appropriately on the status of follow-up to this position during the spring of 2004 and since then in the revised national budget, i.e. on approx. one year. On that basis, I would recommend to SV to draw their proposal, because the intentions have been followed up by a unanimous committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e172	In issues that have been debated earlier today, there has been a lot of focus on an increase in the production of power and the issues surrounding today's power balance. This Document No The 8 proposal raises the issue with a different approach, namely that it is a potential for saving energy by imposing greater energy efficiency requirements on end-user technologies such as electrical appliances, etc. The right-hand side has great sympathy for this angle of incidence. In order to ensure the energy balance, this type of focus is also important. Increased demand for power cannot only be addressed through increased expansion. We also need to look at the demand side, how more efficient energy use can be achieved. There are huge gains to be made in energy savings. The right has therefore programmed an increase in energy efficiency. We already have a comprehensive regulatory framework in this area, which has been implemented on the basis of EU directives. In addition, rules are laid down in the Labelling Act which impose energy labelling requirements. They shall provide consumers with information on the energy efficiency of the labelled product. By letter of 5 May 2003 from the Ministry of Oil and Energy to the Committee, the Council of State indicated that the Ministry would actively monitor further work in the EU in this area. Now, once again, we have little production of electrical articles in Norway. In addition, we are with our approx. $4.3 million. citizens of a relatively modest market in the broad context. It is therefore a reasonable priority for efforts to seek impact and participation in relation to the EU system rather than to set strange demands. If we are to succeed in raising consumer awareness of energy-efficient products, it is important that knowledge of the labelling system is broadened. The individual distributor of electrical products has an important task on this issue. Another issue is the importance of transparency around tests as to whether products actually keep what they promise in terms of energy efficiency. Many with me have reacted with wonder that SIFO had carried out tests that showed an overclassification of products, and that these results were excluded from the public by their contracting entity, NVE. The Council of State has now outlined the possibilities for transparency on these issues in its letter to the Committee dated 6 June of this year, and has indicated that the principle of publicity should be the general rule in matters such as this. If consumers are to be able to make environmentally friendly choices, the first condition is that factual information is both available and reliable. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State has been so clear on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e191	I will be able to start by giving honor to the rapporteur for good work on this matter. The future in our hands has pointed out in a report that the difference between today's Norwegian household electronics and the market's most efficient is about 2.4 TWh, or about five Sauda designs. In the whole OECD area, home refrigerators use three times more electricity than all trains, and the IEA estimates the savings potential of the OECD for different appliances to be many hundreds of TWh. The current Norwegian energy labelling system and minimum standards are based on the EU A-G labelling scheme. The consultations within the Committee revealed that the State Institute for Consumer Research (SIFO) has identified a systematic mislabelling of products requiring labelling. Among other things, SIFO has revealed that 60 pst. of the washing machines tested were faulty. 25 pst. was mislabelled in the field of energy. When a washing machine marked A, which is the best quality, turns out to be a B-quality only, this information is required for consumers. Something else is to allow misleading marketing. An overall committee asks the Ministry of Oil and Energy, which is ultimately responsible for this system, to clean up. In addition, an overall committee says that action needs to be taken to make the labelling system better known than it is today. It is gratifying that an overall committee asks for an assessment of whether it may be appropriate to include in the labelling of products a reminder of the electrical and electronic waste return scheme, EE waste. It is also gratifying that the Committee requests that the measures be followed as quickly as possible and that the Ministry give feedback on the follow-up to the Stortinget during the spring of 2004 and at the latest in the revised national budget. Although SV has not been consulted on the proposal made in Document No. 8:53, there are very positive elements in the setting. But we could have thought that we had got the rest of the committee to join the SV's remark about implementing measures to phase out the least energy-efficient products, that is. The D-G segment, in line with what we already have today in the case of household refrigerators and freezers. We could also imagine that we had brought the Committee to a more offensive position to extend the arrangements to several types of products, both in terms of labelling and in relation to energy efficiency requirements. The Committee points out that the Council of State has ensured that it will follow up and participate actively in the further work in the EU on setting energy efficiency and labelling requirements. As the Norwegian involvement has so far not been strikingly strong in this area — the relaxed supervisory regime being taken into account — these are very welcome signals. I can give the Council of State a promise that on our side, we will follow closely the ministry's further commitment to these questions. Finally, I would like to inform you that SV will turn the proposal that has been put forward in the vote into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e210	The representative, Mr. Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, has taken up and made SV's proposal for a transmission proposal. It will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e213	Energy efficiency and labelling requirements for informing about the energy efficiency of different products are, in my view, important means of reducing electricity consumption. This is an interesting area, which should be more focused on. As early as 1992, the EU adopted a Directive specifying the energy and resource use of different household appliances by means of labelling and standardised product information. The purpose of the scheme is to make consumers more aware of electricity consumption and thus contribute to energy savings. The directive was introduced in Norway in 1996. Here in Norway there were no rules for energy labelling of household appliances until the Energy Label Directive was incorporated into the EEA Agreement. This Directive is a so-called framework directive. The rules applicable to each type of appliance are defined by the so-called implementing directive. Until now, Norway has implemented all the implementing directives, so that the energy labelling system today includes refrigerators, freezers, washing machines, dryers, lamps and dishwashers. I note with interest that energy efficiency is an area within the EEA Agreement that is regularly developed and updated. These directives are drawn up by a committee in the EU in which Norway participates. Two new energy labelling directives have recently been adopted and they concern air-conditioning systems and frying areas. These directives will soon be introduced in Norway. The EU Commission is currently also working on proposals for amending directives to increase the number of energy classes for existing directives on the labelling of washing machines and directives on the labelling of refrigerators and freezers. The existing energy classes, as we have mentioned before, go from A to G, where A is the most energy efficient energy class. But because many of the products mentioned above meet energy class A requirements, the proposal is to expand energy classes A to A+ and A++ for the most energy efficient products. There are currently absolute requirements for the maximum electricity consumption of refrigerators, freezers and fluorescent tubes. The EU Commission is now working on a framework directive aimed at reducing the overall impact on the environment during the period of a product. Norway is a small electrical product manufacturer. For us, it is important that strict requirements for energy efficiency and labelling are based on international agreements and are implemented within a larger market, such as the EEA territory. In the EU, there is a significant effort to develop new and more stringent requirements for the energy efficiency of electrical appliances. It is therefore important that Norway follow up and participate in further EU work in this area. It is Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate that oversees compliance with existing legislation. It is generally important to reduce the aggregate energy consumption here to land. I know that the Minister of Oil and Energy is very busy with it, and he is also busy getting an oversight that works well. In addition, it has been suggested that a person should be referred to as a more general public, so that the results of supervision are made public. This is consistent with the plural comments. I am pleased that the Socialist Left has turned its proposal into a transmission proposal, so that we do not vote against it. That means that there is a collective committee that is now in favour of an interesting and important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e228	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3437]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e244	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e255	Norwegian business is facing very major challenges in the future. This is what we see in the day-to-day situation, where more and more jobs disappear – businesses are being laid down and businesses are flagging out. But we also see that we're a society where changes happen faster than ever. In the past, there were safe and secure jobs that could last both 10, 20 and 30 years. It's not like that anymore. Today, there is much more uncertainty about what the future will bring, and changes are much faster across society. It also requires the State to adapt its instruments accordingly. The state should be an organizer, a service body for Norwegian business, and that's what we call the instrument. We have had several meetings and many hearings in the committee, and what has emerged unisonably from all, most of them, is that they want a more coordinated instrument where there is one door. They want a more long-termity of the arrangements being established, and they want a simplification. I went through my notes, and almost all of them that we had in the hearing highlighted just these points. It is important that the Storting should take over, so that, after dealing with this matter, the business community has an instrument that is as efficient and operational as possible. Then we get to this with the organization first. There is now a majority in the UK that will go in to give us a user front that has far more players and far more instruments in it. Both today's SND, the Inventors' Guidance Office, the Export Council, the Tourist Council, a part of SIVA's tools and the research council's nutritional instruments are introduced into the new user front. This means that when entrepreneurs, whether they are start-ups or well-established companies, meet the user front, they have a complete offer that can be presented to these actors. We have also said that we will later consider bringing other instruments into the same user front. That means we get 17 offices around the country, and we also get a number of offices abroad, which can actually serve business in a better way, a more coordinated way and a more efficient way than before. At the same time, the Committee says that we should merge some of today's instruments into a unit. This concerns the SND, the Swedish Export Council, the Tourist Council, and the Inventors' Guidance Office. That means they're getting a much stronger organisational connection. I do not hide that we in the SV had wanted us to go further in this area. We also wanted SIVA to get into the new unit, and we also wanted that anyone else could get into the same one, just to simplify and make these arrangements more accessible and coordinated than they've been before. We believe that SIVA has a very high level of competence in a number of areas. They have proved to be very exciting and innovative in relation to a number of the efforts they've been doing. We should have transferred that competence to the new unit, so that it would have gained a better share of SIVA's skills than they do today, but that they come in a common user font is also a step in the right direction. Another piece that I'm concerned with is the county's role in this. The county council is agreed to pass. We agree that the county should be a regional development agency, and then it is important that we do not now get two separate units, that is, the new agency on the one hand, and the county on the other, which is warring against each other. We need to get coordination between the actors where they work hand in hand, and where they clearly define who should do the different tasks. It's also relatively well described in the proposition who's going to do the different problems. But I would strongly ask that when this is put into practice, both the new instrument and the county council must add the credit, so that this will not be a struggle for rivals, a struggle for power, but, as far as possible, will be a help to the industry that needs that instrument so much. Then we are happy that both the Tourist Council and the Export Council enter the new unit. The strengthening of links means that the international effort, which is becoming more important and important for Norwegian business, is getting more focus, more resources and more attention in the future. In addition to organisation, the instruments themselves are important. There is a majority proposal that we should get an investigation into coordination, which is going on decentralisation, and that we should get more tools into Norwegian business. It is, as I said, an investigation proposal. But I think it's unusually important that we make these arrangements simpler than before, and that we get more of the arrangements delegated to different regions of the country, because the needs are so different, for example, in North Norway and the East. Not least, I think it's important that we try to move a little bit of the decision-making authority out where you have the shoe, so that we can spend this money as efficiently and as directly as possible. There is a majority in the committee to get more R & D into the companies. I think that's unusually important. If we are to succeed in Norwegian business in the future, the most important thing we can do, is to do continuous preventive business, so that research and development can be carried out continuously as a continuous process, that we can renew ourselves and always be able to address the challenges that everyday life and future faces. There's a majority in the committee to add another half a billion dollars to the district billion, and we're very pleased about that in SV. The district funds have now reached DKK 1 1⁄2 billion, and it is clearly underlined that this should go to economically vulnerable areas where you are struggling with relocation. It is a matter of regional policy that we get funding out for economic development in that type of area as well. Then there is a majority in the Committee that we should ask the Government to consider getting the FUN also to apply to individual enterprises, including farm use, and that an evaluation of that matter is soon to be submitted. During the examination in the Committee, a proposal was made to stop the sale of SND Invest which the Storting has previously adopted. It is now the majority that we should carry out that sale and that we stick to what the Storting has previously decided. SV would also like to try to obtain a majority of an environmental technology fund under document No. The 8-proposal, which is part of the matter. We record that in this area SV is still on its own, but you only have to take note that in some cases, you are when you deal with the matter a little early, often alone – then there are some rounds, and then other parties become involved. We also believe that this will happen in the case of the Eco-Technology Fund. I told the committee when we started working on the instrument proposition that the goal had to be that when we had finished the matter, the companies, the business community, would say: this was good. Now, when the business community gets involved, I think they're saying, this was a step in the right direction. I think the business community would have wanted more coordination within the instrumentation. I think they would have wanted a lot more tools, but I think what the Storting will now adopt is an absolute step in the right direction. That made up the proposition. I believe that the Stortinget has reinforced it by an even longer step, which I believe Norwegian business needs, towards a government tool that is a good instrument for Norwegian business. Finally, I will give a small warning. Experience shows that reorganisations are often difficult because Norway is characterised by having a number of small kings who do not respect decisions taken. And I think that if we're going to succeed in the reorganisation, it's important that all those affected by it add the goodwill, add the prestige to it, and do everything they can to make this a successful reorganization for the benefit of Norwegian business. I address the proposals that SV has made, and the proposals that SV has made together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e293	The representative of Inge Ryan has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e298	When Stortinget treated St.meld. No 22 for 2001-2002, A smaller and better state ownership, said Inge Ryan: ‘That is why we in SV are very critical of any sale, because it is the beginning of something we fear can become dramatic for the Norwegian community’. Now SV is obviously not critical for sale, because now there is to be a privatisation of SND Invest. I am obliged to point out that of the investments that SND Invest has made during 2002, 41 have been made. gone to sea food, 18 pst. for technology, 8 pst. within travel life, 11 pst. for oil and maritime activities and 22 pst. for other economic activities. Is not the representative Ryan anxious that the part and the investment undertaken by SND Invest will disappear? Why didn't he negotiate, when he manoeuvred in a negotiating situation, generally better instruments for SND?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e310	It's been three years since SV treated SND Invest, and we agreed that we should sell this. It is not a new matter that has emerged in the negotiations. The reason we wanted to sell SND Invest was because it had a centralizing effect. Most of the exposures that SND had were central, and therefore we wanted to liquidate SND Invest. In addition, SND Invest has not entered into any strategic ownership positions. SND Invest has invested randomly in a number of companies and lost a lot of money. They haven't gone into it badly and said that in that and that area, it's important that the state is the owner. They have invested small percentages around and scattered it on different projects. I have the list of SND Invest's investments on the inside. It says, among other things. A thousand-fry, Royal Caribbean Cruise Line, NorwayTaxi, a number of such companies where it is not natural for the state to sit with small holdings. It's much better to spend money on district bets.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e317	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e320	The Government presented a proposal entitled ‘Activities for an innovative and innovative business’. There were six Roman numerals. All were concerned with obtaining consent to create a new entity that would manage direct business activities, who would join this entity, and how it would operate. From our side, there were no problems with the proposals, and we were really prepared to give our support. So the work in the committee took a little off, and there were many more elements in the debate than we anticipated. What the cause may be can well be discussed, for example: that the Government has reversed the process, i.e. that they had submitted proposals for funding before submitting proposals for the objectives, i.e.: the notified national innovation plan. We need a national innovation plan, but because it comes after dealing with this proposition, it has led someone to start the dance by putting in more proposals. The rest of us had to follow up, and one has taken the other. So to the proposition's suggestion. We agreed that the main objective of the instrument should focus on the areas research and empowerment, the development and commercialisation phase, internationalisation In addition, the Labour Party believes that regional development is an important focus of the Norwegian instrument. We can't forget the D in the SND. The D is responsible for district development, and the new unit still has to work on it. Regional value creation environments consisting of both commodity suppliers, processing companies, subcontractors, support functions, financial institutions and interplaying environments are important, and the public should contribute to the development of such environments. With regard to the target audiences the government has proposed in the proposition, we did not disagree with these. However, we stress that one must also inspire and take care of innovation in existing businesses. Existing business life may arise in a situation where they need drag help to move on or over a knee. It is also important that we have nationwide instruments that capture industries such as cannabis. the furniture industry. We agree that the instrument should have a common front towards users, where most business-oriented instruments should be available. The main purpose of the merger is to make it easier for users to identify. They shall meet all in the same place, or the person they meet, should be able to provide information on the possibilities. They shall use the forces of ideas and creativity, not running from office to office. We also agree with the Government's proposal that from 1 January 2004, a new innovation and internationalisation unit will be set up, based on the tools of today's SND, the Norwegian Export Council and the State Inventors' Guidance Office. In addition, after the consultation, the entire Committee agreed that the Norwegian Tourism Council should be included. Was it a mistake on the part of the Government that they weren't there from the beginning? One of the major questions has been the role of SIVA. The government says the following in the proposition: ‘However, the government has not found it appropriate to include any of the activities of SIVA in the new innovation and internationalisation unit now. SIVA has a special composition of instruments and has a significant government debt financing. The Ministry will therefore review the activities of SIVA, including the economic and financial situation of the company, with a view to clarifying the future role of SIVA.» We agree with that. We've got a lot of signals that this is the right thinking. In fact, at its national meeting, the Labour Party has a decision to seek to simplify and strengthen state instruments towards businesses through a merger of SIVA, SND and Norway’s Export Council, but we agree with the Government that we should have an assessment of SIVA first. In addition, a merger today will result in an unfortunate combination of the ownership role and the grant role. We are therefore surprised to note that the government parties, together with SV, are already providing this, even if they simply say that this should be assessed. But when you read the settings, you see the reason. In the proposal, the Government proposes that some head office functions be transferred to a regional office and that the size and competence of individual offices vary. We agree with that. The idea of spreading head offices around the country, as one has done in the Food Authority, is a good idea. However, the majority have now said that all important head office functions should be moved to the Trondheim region. What about sharing with the rest of the country? What about allowing the board of directors of the new unit to decide, together with the department, which head office functions are best suited to regional assessments? We have registered that the two representatives from Tøndelag in Right and SV have promised many jobs to Tøndelag. My questions will then be: What should be moved? How can they already promise many jobs to the region? We support the Government's proposal that the head office should be located in Oslo. Most of the employees are there. A reorganization of the size we see for us, makes them need to calm down until this is completed and the problems are distributed, and then one can say what fits to move where. After all, it's all the district offices that will be the most important, and it's 17 of them. As regards Argentum Fund Investments AS, the Government proposes that this be transferred to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. In examining the notification of ownership, the majority of the Committee proposed the establishment of a panel to propose the future organisation of the country's ownership. We think it's natural to wait to decide who owns Argentum until the selection is finished and has presented a proposal. On the part of the Workers' Party, we also take up an old proposal where we ask the Government to consider a capital increase in Argentina that might overlap with the cereal regime. SIVA is also the owner of Argentum. The equity is SEK 1.3 billion, 66 pst. of SIVA’s equity. It'll cost you to move it. SND Invest has become a topic in this case, although it was initially not mentioned in the proposition. The last time we discussed SND Invest was in connection with the ownership announcement, and then – as before – was the Workers' Party against the sale of SND Invest. For us, it is unmistakable to privatise a public instrument like SND Invest. A cross-section is that if one is now selling SND Invest, for which there is now a majority, a yes is that Norwegian investors are going to use free venture capital to buy up a state-owned, well-functioning instrument instead of investing their money in the market. In the opinion of the Labour Party, this money from private investors should instead be used to invest in Norwegian business and in new businesses rather than to buy up SND Invest. This would give twice as much risk capital to a needy market. The state doesn't need the money. The largest cross-section of thought is that SV is for this sale, and that the Government has received a majority of SV – SV, which in the setting in another connection is included in the following note: ‘The members of the Committee of the Workers’ Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre are sceptical of the underlying assumptions of the proposition that parts or the whole of the instrument should be put out to competition. For enterprises, constant shifts of persons, providers and services will be in stark contrast to the desire for more stable framework conditions and predictability of the instrument for enterprises.» In this case, it has been difficult for us to understand SV. They sell an important tool – for what? The explanation shall be of interest. In the end, before I address our proposals, several of the proposals that you will find in the vote, are proposals that we have made in the past in relation to other issues that have been dealt with in the Stortinget. The reason why we're taking them up again is the way this proposition has been dealt with in the committee. I bring this up with the Labour Party's proposals, the ones we are alone about, and the ones we are with others about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e388	The representative Grethe Fossli has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e393	I want to thank the representative Fossli for spending so much time in her post on SV, so I had to take a reply. SND Invest invested in 1999 in approx. 55 companies in Oslo and Akershus. That same year, SND Invest had one investment in Nord-Trøndelag, my home country, and they also had very few investments in other districts. It says that SND Invest has chosen to go into areas where it was kind of hot from before. So where there was good access to capital, SND Invest went in. SND Invest acted as a pervert thermostat. You turned on the heat where it was hot, and stayed away from where it was cold. That's why we can't be involved in seeing that we're getting a centralization by the state depositing funds into central struts and staying away from investment in the districts. That's why we're going to move money from SND Invest, and we're going to move them out into District Norway where the money is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e401	Now, as Akershus' representative, I should be very happy that there are people who are investing in Akershus at all. It is small in terms of public funds. But if you look at the companies that SND Invest has invested in, among others. in seafood, tourism and oil and maritime activities, there are not many of them in Oslo and Akershus. I have no bad conscience for the way SND Invest spends its money. My argument against SV agreeing to sell is that in that case, it would bind up capital from private investors that could instead have been used in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e406	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e409	It is the reform of the times that is now being carried out within the Norwegian instrument, a reform that is to be adapted to the time we are in, where we see that unemployment shortages, low economic conditions around the world in our main markets, give the result that we get some completely new challenges for the nation, Norwegian employment, Norwegian employment and Norwegian innovation at the time we meet, compared to those we have had in recent years. The rest of the world sits and discusses what kind of social reforms to cut into, but it's not certain that in the future it's going to be automatic in that we're going to spend our time discussing and arguing about what kind of new, cost-intensive reforms we're going to tackle and grant ourselves. That is why I am pleased that we have had an impact on the Government's proposal, which the case-rapporteur has made an excellent deal today, and which has been made even a little better by the committee's consideration. With the background and the attitude that has been put on the table today, which is so precise, so clear and giving one as defined marshalling grounds to the Norwegian instrument as it does, I do not understand the criticism that the Workers' Party is now conducting, criticizing the Socialist Left Party for having participated in individual parts and obtaining a majority – among others. a majority in order to obtain seed funds for a sector screaming for assistance, with the help of raising equity for innovation, the red thread and the whole basic idea of the reform we are now adopting, which makes it possible to raise DKK 1 billion in national seed funds, more precisely defined for those areas of the country which have the most difficulty already in recruiting capital and risk loans, and where innovation is the most difficult of all today's images. We get 17 new robust units in the country, we get with the Norwegian Export Council, the State Inventors' Guidance Office, the Norwegian Tourist Council and the SND in a new special law company – 17 offices where the government can also go with parts of or the whole of SIVA under the new special law company, while these 17 defined robust units are also represented in a dozen foreign destinations. This is all the reason why we're very happy that we're getting in place today. The amounts made available by this Decision and the sensible solution to sell SND Invest, which the representative Ryan has argued so thoroughly for the need for it today, mean that these funds are put into active activities for innovation in those parts of the country in which the instrument is to be part. At the same time, there is reason to be very satisfied with the clear profile of the tool. Today we have 15-20 semi-public companies that have a slightly unclear profile, unclear definition of choice. Now this gets sewn together in an excellent way that makes the good apparatus we have today to be even better able to do their job. At the same time — in a confiscation — we need to end a culture in Norway that has become a sport of its own, that state institutions are lobbying their leaders. This history through the supervisory notification, through the instrument proposal, etc. Let's get a rough end to it! This does not serve the purpose and business idea of these institutions at all. I hope this is a completed stage. It is such that the large institutions and social partners get what they want, that is, that users should now be able to get in touch with an instrument by just turning to one office, one door. I am quite convinced that the institutions we have today, which in phase one are set to implement this, are well prepared to take on the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e424	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e427	Right-wing commends business neutrality as a principle when it relates to the use of tools in industrial policy. I have to say that, in developing areas where we can get strong Norwegian nutrition clusters in place, the Ministry of Economic Affairs is strongly bounding its room for action. The same liabilities when major and minor crises arise. For a majority in the Committee, it has been important to develop an industrial policy with particular emphasis on areas where we have natural resources for happiness, for example. maritime industries, fisheries and aquaculture, and energy. Is it a form of disclaimer when the Right commends the principle of nutrition neutrality and corrects the weather and says that there is nothing we can do here?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e436	I believe that politicians will make their greatest and best efforts for innovation, for innovation, for creativity and internationalisation by facilitating the framework conditions for Norwegian competitive business and, in particular, the export-oriented sector, so that they can have conditions that enable them to cope with the market they are serving. This government has done this in a very thorough way — giving better framework conditions, knocking down Europe’s highest interest rate base, ensuring that the strangely high dollar rate is now brought down and going even further downwards. The fact that Norwegian politicians have turned out to be trendmakers on behalf of the business community, we could have been able to frame a series of examples. For example, SIVA is equipped with its largest commitment, located on the Fornebu of a political hybrid here in the Norwegian metropolitan area, shows how bad it can be when politicians set trends!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e443	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e446	The government signals through the proposition that it wants to organise a more efficient instrument designed to increase the pace of innovation and to realise greater value creation among the instrument’s customers. We have noted that the Government wants to sharpen the instrument against innovation. The justification is the need for a renewal that can contribute to the creation of a highly competitive sector when oil revenues decline. While the party supports that assessment, industrial policy must also be competitive in order to succeed. The high oil revenues mean that even in the years ahead, Norway will have a cost level that is among the highest in the world, regardless of the choice of economic policy. Globalisation means that Norway is far more competitive with other countries’ instruments than before. A successful innovation policy therefore requires a targeted enterprise policy. The major societal changes resulting from the globalisation of the economy and the technological revolution also have consequences for the instrumentation. On the one hand, international agreements and modified structures have led to the liquidation of several established instruments. On the other hand, the transformation into a knowledge economy requires entirely new and far more flexible instruments than before. The Progress Party agrees with the direction the Government has chosen to take in the creation of a new Innovation and Internationalisation Unit. This means that the instrumentation can appear simpler, more transparent and comprehensive than it is today, so that innovation becomes a more coherent instrument. We have registered that the Government will present a comprehensive case on the overall innovation policy in relation to the 2004 State Budget. It would have been far more appropriate to deal with innovation policy in advance or preferably in the context of the instrument proposal in order to obtain an overall assessment of the situation. However, the Progress Party will not propose this because large parts of the business world have significant problems. Today, we find that especially export-related businesses are on the one hand confused, on the other hand shut down or move production out of the country, and unemployment is on the other. What companies need first and foremost now are strong and unambiguous signals, signals of a new course with new and targeted use of instruments as soon as possible. Then it is not enough that the instrument proposition is mainly about priorities and organisation. Much more is required to achieve an effective value creation policy. Revising the instrument is just one step on the way. We are disappointed that the reforms proposed in this area are not being followed up at the same time by a significant increase in resource use. There is no proposal to increase the framework for all or part of the instrument, with the exception of district schemes proposed by the Government. We are therefore promoting absolutely necessary proposals for increased frameworks within several parts of the instrument, because the signals must now come and thus be involved and lay the basis for strengthening the long-term value creation in the Norwegian economy. There is a significant need to strengthen frameworks and instruments at an early stage, in the venture phase and in the mature phase. The classical socio-economic thinking presupposes that economic policy facilitates the quest for capital at all times for the most profitable project. One of the consequences is that an investor would naturally prefer to invest in mature projects where the risk is lowest and the opportunities for profit are the most obvious. For this reason, all the materialities of private investment capital in Norway go to mature projects. In Norway, this is more striking than in any other country. One of the consequences is that Norway is one of the weakest European countries in terms of innovation and innovation. Therefore, when the Progress Party promotes concrete proposals to strengthen the cereal regime, it is not, as some would claim, mild gifts to private – on the contrary. The risk to private investors will remain significant at all stages, but they will choose for themselves the stage of development in which they will invest their own money. The purpose of a seed scheme is to stimulate some of them to perhaps invest in an earlier phase of an enterprise's life than they would otherwise have done. The Seed Scheme is established to strengthen access to risk capital. The need for such capital is particularly high in a period of weaker economic cycles, including: the Land-wide Seed Fund, the START Fund, is already fully committed. However, the lack of available capital has caused some of the regional funds to have had problems exploiting the scheme. The regional seed funds have struggled to raise the private capital needed to mobilise State resources. Therefore, no more regional funds will solve any problems. It will then be much better with nationwide funds that can distribute funds across the country. Experience has shown that strict requirements need to be imposed on the professionalism of each fund and that the size should be increased in order to ensure capital for necessary follow-up investments. I would like to remind you that in the treatment of the ownership notification, a decision was taken to set up several nationwide seed funds. We are therefore promoting a proposal to extend the cereal regime by DKK 1 billion to a nationwide fund and its loss fund. This would be to stimulate the market for private capital and innovation skills based on the partly good experience of the previously established Landwide Seed Fund. It will also be important to strengthen the role of the SND within the new Innovation and Internationalisation Unit. SND should be given a significant position at a time when there is a growing need for country-to-private partnership solutions. The Fund may be an important player in terms of both seed capital, high-risk loans and grants for entrepreneurial activities. We see it as a clear advantage that SND has nationwide instruments. SND is currently also administering an arrangement of OFU and IFU contracts that is under way. These development contracts are important instruments for strengthening innovation and innovation and should therefore be extended. In the venture phase, we have the State Investment Fund Argentum, an innovation to stimulate private projects. This is a scheme which has not yet been fully tested but which has worked so far satisfactorily and should therefore be extended. The Government proposes to transfer Argentum from SND and SIVA to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I would like to remind you that, in the context of the suspension of the 2002 Communication of Ownership, the majority of the Committee stressed that government ownership was organised outside the Ministry in order to draw a clearer distinction between the political and commercial role of the State. A separate selection has been set up to submit proposals for the future organisation of the country's ownership. We therefore believe it would be right to await a change in Argentina's ownership function after there has been a clarification in the organisation of its ownership. Norwegian companies have significant competitive disadvantages in the global economy. The developments described are giving greater importance to the concept of ‘national ownership’. Today's Business for the 10th and 11th of May this year gave an overview of 35 important Norwegian companies that have been sold out of the country in recent years. The main consequences of these sales are not that foreigners acquire ownership of the enterprises. In some contexts it may be necessary and good. The most important thing is that such sales can lead to the exit of central Norwegian competence in offshore technology, bending load technology, seismics, shipping and farming, leading to the long-term branching of important parts of Norwegian business. Without national ownership of strategically important enterprises and knowledge sources, we in Norway may lose control of our economic future. In order to avoid such a situation, Norway needs to pursue an active and targeted industrial policy. Our main competitive advantage in a global economy is the state's capital strength. I would like to remind you of the proposal of the Progress Party for a solution, with a State Structural Fund of the order of EUR 50 billion. There may be one of several instruments that can help support private Norwegian enterprises that need to increase their financial strength in restructuring and buying-in. Such a fund must aim at achieving a return that is at least in line with other private industrial investments over time and has opportunities to invest both in Norway and abroad in cooperation with private owners. I would like to mention the proposal made by the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e484	The representative Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e487	I am very pleased that the Government has made most of its policy and achieved significant improvements in the organisation of the tools, so that the supply from the public to the business community in this way becomes even better. I'd like to give the honor to SV, who has been so constructive and eager that these solutions now have multiples. It will also be a tangible contribution to the fight against unemployment, which the Government has also given top priority. The fact that the instrument is best organised for a future-oriented business is of great importance to the way we meet the future challenges of value creation. This in turn is important in relation to the economic policy that focuses on work for all, the further development of the Norwegian welfare society, fair distribution and sustainable development. If we are to have the hope of achieving these main objectives, it is crucial that we have a strong and competitive business with priority and focus on knowledge, technology and value creation. This gives us a more targeted tool tool. Verkommendla plays an important role and shall focus on the early phase of business life and beyond on internationalisation, research and empowerment. What is of great importance in relation to the changes that have now been made in the tools is that we will focus on entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises with a high growth potential, thus seeing Norwegian enterprises better able to cope with international competition. There are several other relationships that are also of great importance to international competition, but I would like to note in particular the importance of the need for the framework to be as competitive as possible. It is also far from material that the framework conditions are stable over time. This in itself will reduce costs associated with uncertainty and migration. Competitive and sustainable framework conditions are the main contribution to a profitable and innovative business. If Norway and Norwegian industry are to assert themselves and Norway is to be an attractive country to invest in and operate from, they must be able to withstand international comparisons. We then talk more specifically about tax conditions, precaution, research and development, availability of skilled labour and entrepreneurship-friendly legislation. Where this is relevant to the ability of industry to assert itself internationally, it seems to me that the priority of better framework conditions for the whole of business is more important than extensive corporate rights of support through the tools. I would like to add here, in the light of a previous reply from the Tveiten representative, that this government is not responsible for a non-nutritional tool. It was black on the lines -- I just want to repeat it -- that we in the area by area go in and evaluate selective tools to help specific parts of the business. I do not want this to be attached as a stamp or a tag to this government and the parts behind it in the Storting. We want a variety of devices to support business in different phases, and we're not neutral. I hope we don't listen to that debt again, because it's groundless. When it comes to the discussion about why Norwegian enterprises are bought by non-residents, this problem is more nuanced than it can be imagined in the media. One might wonder that in 2002 there was an investment of DKK 6 billion in Norwegian business, while Norwegian companies invested DKK 43 billion abroad in the same year. If this goes back on the fact that there are not enough projects to invest in domestically, it is uncertain, but at least it underlines the importance of increasing our innovation. It is important to be aware that innovation policies deal not only with the public sector but also with interaction between both private and public actors. There are many aspects that affect innovation opportunities and the long-term competitiveness of enterprises, and in this context, the public instrument is only one of several factors. A holistic innovation policy is fivefold and includes many policy areas, such as: tax policy, wage policy, labour market policy, competition policy, intellectual property law, family policy and research policy. It will be particularly important for businesses themselves to think about new opportunities, to exploit the opportunities offered by technology, to choose good strategies and to develop new products, services, markets and forms of work. Without the industry itself moving in this direction, we also have no distribution in relation to competitive potential. This is not an argument for a responsibilities disclaimer from the public. The role of the public must be to facilitate, motivate and remove obstacles and to help and trigger private energy through its policies. This, in itself, is a challenge that transcends ministerial structures and policies, and which is less dependent on changing governments and magnificence. The impact and impact of globalisation on both the economy and the workplace are irreversible. This has a clear impact on inputs such as capital and labour. In an increasing globalised economy, therefore, interdependence between countries and between enterprises increases, with companies dealing more with each other and increasingly with each other. For us in Norway, which is characterised by a small but open economy, it is invaluable that we are aware of having innovation processes that further develop healthy competitive advantages as a means of making Norwegian jobs more competitive, resilient to relocations and attractive to investment. It is important for us to move towards innovation in this context if we are to have any hope of achieving the main objectives of economic policy. In order to meet these objectives, a strong and competitive business is not only required, but also increased value creation. A forward-looking industrial policy must stimulate the exploitation of resources in such a way that it benefits the next generation. A sustainable development must be put into a generation perspective, and at the same time we must realise the sustainability strategy through the regular political planning and budgetary processes. It is important that both business and regional policies should focus on innovation. At the same time, it seemed right for the Government to assume that the instrument should seek to prioritize its activities towards research, empowerment, ideas, development and commercialisation and internationalisation. When it comes to the specific devices in relation to the tool tool, today I will take a small selection of these. First loans, advances and equity schemes and the district billion. The Government Party and SV have asked the Government to present an assessment of the possibilities for decentralisation and simplification of current commercial right loan, asset and equity arrangements. In this context, it is also requested to establish regional schemes to provide Norwegian business with more resources and provide more long-termity and more regional governance than today. I'm happy with this. The Government Party and SV are also satisfied that the funding of the district fund is in place. And more importantly, we're a few of them saying that the funds get a device that means that they don't compete with private investors and long-term investors, but that at the same time they stimulate the profitable development of good projects in the district. This means that funds should be set up against the most vulnerable areas, which are threatened by depopulation. This is very important to ensure the employment and construction of these areas, which is a bet area for this government. Furthermore, in the context of the 2004 State budget, additional 400 million are to be made available. SEK to a seed fund of 100 million. In the case of a loss fund. Overall, the regional billion is a very important food and district policy intervention. Finally, compared to a national innovation plan, it is of great importance that this should apply to the whole country as a whole. At the same time, it is important that the tools are adapted to the different needs of the different regions and industries. We therefore look forward to the submission by the Government of a comprehensive action plan for a holistic innovation policy in the context of the 2004 State Budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e525	Let me start by saying that, in different contexts, as the manager, as the head of the business and as a member of the business committee and also as the municipal minister, I have had close contact with the public agency in different ways. I would like to say that a very respectable job is done by those who are set to manage the public tool. In relatively few years they have undergone many reorganisations of their activities. There have been relatively many governments and different regimes in a few years, and significant budget cuts have been made from year to year. This has been successfully addressed, while considerable staff reductions have been carried out in recent years. And you have at the top of it at the same time managed to come up with many and creative suggestions on how to best serve Norwegian business. After all, that's all to the seventh and last thing that's the job of the tool we have. When you were told from Stortinget's pulpit that you should stop talking to your superiors, you should actually let that go. On the contrary, it is now important that we gather to give the instrument that we now agree in the course of the day that we should have, framework conditions that enable them to carry out the job that we expect them to do. This means that they must have both economic instruments and equity that provide this tool with a basis for doing the job. I have recorded in the debate today that the government parties and SV justify the sale of SND Invest because SND Invest has invested money in areas where it should not be done. That's okay, I agree. But it's almost not to think that you're using that rationale to sell. The first thing an owner does if you are dissatisfied with your manager or board is at least to give a clear indication of where you want the money to be used. If you don't benefit, you have an opportunity to change both the board and the board of the institution. I have experienced a few business owners who have justified a sale that management or board of directors do not do what they want to do. Then, to be honest, it's more wrong with the owners than with those who are going to do the assignment for the owner. There is relatively broad agreement on the organisation of the instrument itself that we are going to do today – at least to a certain point. This I think is important for two reasons. Firstly, there is a significant reorganization being made. I would like to say that the Minister of Industry needs the support that he can get from an overall increase, from the overall organisation to carry this out, because there is a tough and comprehensive job to be done. Secondly, it is important for Norwegian business to have as broad a majority in the Stortinget as possible, so that the decisions taken can be taken over time. It is also important that, in the competitive situation in which you live, the business community has the fewest possible places to go, so that it is not necessary to use unnecessary time just to find out which door to choose in order to access the instruments needed in different situations. The Minister of Industry has constantly complained that his toolbox is empty. It is something he must take a considerable part of the responsibility for himself. When business neutrality and general framework conditions become most important, and the financing of these general framework conditions, tax relief, are cut through targeted instruments, the result is that there is an empty toolbox. I think it would actually be a great advantage if the Minister of Industry and the Government had first acquired tools, that is. and then figured out how to place the tool, or organised, instead of doing the opposite. Now the Minister of Industry is sitting there with an empty toolbox and thinks that he now had a replacement key, he could place it there and there and use it like that. The objectives first, then the instruments and finally the organisation! Now we're not in that situation, and there's a more or less collective committee that ends up with the model that's now selected. But the reason why the Minister of Economic Affairs has come into this situation is the belief in the blessing of business neutrality. That policy has failed. You have to focus on lifting the areas where we have opportunities to be the best, where we have opportunities to improve what we've already done. Finally, in relation to the organisation that is now taking place, it is important to decentralise decision-making powers and move forward on the path that has been initiated in this area, to decentralise the organisation as much as possible in order to be as close as possible to users, to focus on innovation, as the proposition facilitates, and not least to focus, as I have said before, on industries where we have the opportunity to succeed, and to develop strong regional policy instruments. That is why the Centre Party is promoting proposals to ask the Government to outsource the creation of five regional investment funds, just to get close to the users, just to have the regional policy focus that is needed. I am referring here to the proposal that the Central Party has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e543	The representative, Odd Roger Enoxen, has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e548	That the center part will fill up a kind of toolbox with tools that have been out of date for the last time, hardly surprises anyone here in this room. Secondly, I understood the reference from Enoch to the undersigned when he says that state institutions must be allowed to talk to their superiors. No one disagrees or is surprised at that either. But when state institutions operate an activity that bears the mark of pure lobbying, one has to say, for reasons of what should be a service path, that it should be over. But then to this powerful support from the Center Party to SND Invest. I do not understand that, with the massive bet they have made in the Oslo and Akershus region, versus the dubious resistance of the Center Party against supporting the Government and the SV of SEK 1 billion in seed funds, national coverage seed funds. How can Enoch defend such an action?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e555	I actually thought it was possible to understand from my post that I am definitely not satisfied with everything SND Invest has done, and the Center Party has been the leading critic of investments both in Steen & Stroem and in other companies in the inner Oslo over the years. That's a criticism we're going to continue to make. But it is actually far from there to say that it should lead to selling. The problem is, of course, that the majority of population chooses a way of organising the instrument that reduces political influence every day. More and more, the instrument must be free to set its own policy objectives. It's a way of running policies that the Center Party is completely in disagreement with, and that we don't want to implement. Then, finally, with reference to filling up the toolbox with tools that have expired: in full ghosts it is likely to say that I think the replacement key could be a handy tool to have for Ivar Kristiansen in many contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e564	The representative Odd Roger Enoksen is probably one of the most competent and zealous district politicians I know about. And I have a question for the representative, whether he's not happy that we've got another 500 million. SEK to the most economically weak areas, which are threatened by relocation, by freeing money from the sale of SND Invest. That's my first question. The second question is that the representative, Mr Enoxsen, says that it is important to have political influence. If you have 19 pst, you have political influence. of the shares in Euroschild or 16 pst. of the shares in the thousand-fry or shares in the Royal Caribbean Cruises? Are there areas where we're going to have influence, and do we have influence when we have so little shareholding?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e571	I am very pleased that 500 million have arrived. To the district fund, or the district billion, which I would like to admit from this pulpit, Mr Ryan has had a considerable responsibility for having come into place. But the more I have to say, I am amazed that SV has not supported the Central Party in the proposal to set up five regional funds, which would have had the prospect of getting close to the users. A regional policy perspective had been given on the use of these funds, which would have been a significant boost to provide District Norway with equity. In fact, I believe that localising these funds regionally and close to the users in the way proposed by the Center Party would have led to avoiding the very type of investment that Inge Ryan is now criticising, to which the Center Party is also critical.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e576	I have a great deal of respect for Odd Roger Enoksen's and the Center Party's stalls when it comes to district policy and also industrial development in the underprivileged area. But I feel that his post becomes a bit too one-sided when he repeats that this government is responsible for a business-neutral arrangement. I am therefore given when I hear that he still does not see the effort – despite the fact that the Government has done a heroic and long-term work to bring down the interest rate, bring down the krone price, strengthen the general tools, get control of wage developments, and in addition, establish a selective tool that makes up 3.1 million. kr, plus a district billion and a half billion in district development – but calling government and government its policy business neutral without any will and ability to enter into special projects and strengthen those who either have special problems, or who need strong stimulus. How can it be that Odd Roger Enoxsen sees only with one eye and criticises instead of also looking at the more selective means that exist?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e581	It may be difficult to hear what is actually happening from time to time. But I have done nothing else in my post but to reproduce what is said by the Government's own people, Finance Minister, Minister of Industry, various speakers in this room. Industry neutrality is the most important, general framework conditions are the most important, and in fact I have not introduced the concept of ‘empty toolbox’ – it is the Minister of Industry himself who has done so. If the Minister of Industry intends to fill up this toolbox eventually, he will be helped by the Center Party, because I think it is necessary to have more than one thought in his head. There is a need for competitive framework conditions for Norwegian business, but it is also necessary to have targeted framework conditions, enabling the development of new businesses, enabling research to be pursued, enabling the building of knowledge and skills in the enterprises to develop and represent the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e586	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e589	St. pp. No 51 on tools for an innovative and innovative business is a good and important contribution to better organisation for innovation and internationalisation in business. Most of its policies have been implemented and significant improvements have been achieved in the organisation of the tools, which is one of the most important public services available to business. Verchemidla shall focus on the early phase of the enterprise’s life and on internationalisation, research and empowerment. The changes now supported by the Government will strengthen the focus on entrepreneurs and SMEs with high growth potential. They will also improve the ability of Norwegian companies to cope with international competition. The government has been able to implement its proposal to change the organisation of the instrument. The State Enterprise and District Development Fund, the Export Council and the State Inventors Guidance Office are merged into a new Innovation and Internationalisation Unit in line with the Government’s proposal. A majority of these rooms are simultaneously in order for the Norwegian Tourist Council to also enter the new unit. It shall also be assessed whether other relevant instrument units, such as: SIVA, will be incorporated in the long term in order to achieve increased innovation in business. The left says that this conversion will provide easier solutions for the companies. Businesses and entrepreneurs now have one place to turn when they need public assistance. I am pleased that the Government Party and the Socialist Left Party are some of them saying that the funds in the so-called district billion should be set up against businesses located in the most underprivileged areas, areas threatened by depopulation. There is also a consensus between the Government Party and the Socialist Left that, in the context of the 2004 State budget, an additional 400 million will be allowed. kr to a seed fund for innovation and re-establishment. This is good left policy and good policy for small businesses and entrepreneurs. This is a good example of public restructuring and better organisation. I'm glad that there's also a deal to keep up with the government's authority to sell SND Invest. At the same time, I must say that I am surprised at the party that the Progress Party is all of its sudden eagerness for state ownership and for privatisation. These are new tones from the Progress Party. The increasing unemployment and competitiveness of industry are now at the centre of attention. For us in the Left, it is primarily a tight budget, a low interest rate and a low exchange rate that is the recipe for the fight against the increasing unemployment. It is this that will be the best contribution to competitive industries and export businesses. But the left is equally concerned that new jobs can be created here in the country. If we are to succeed, we must create a better climate for entrepreneurs and innovation. For this reason, we in the Left are very pleased to be part of a government that is now creating several regional seed funds for entrepreneurs. The industrial policy of the future must be different from that of the past. The left will give room for man's creative power, so that it becomes as natural to create one's own job as to find a place within the established working life. It must be honorable to spend money on starting their own business. The left will provide ground floor for innovation and establishment, we'll bet on the unborn business. New business depends on the interaction between existing industries, the knowledge environment and research. Therefore, the left will also simplify the form field, remove property taxes and the sharing model, and adapt the shareholders' rules for the smallest enterprises. These are measures that we will work for both in government and in general in the time to come. The left also believes it would be right to introduce time-limited exemptions from the employer's fee in the first 24 months after setting up. Business value creation is the basis of the welfare state. The founding policy of the left is therefore a policy to create, to share. The left will support and vote for the proposals in the vote made by our colleagues – colleagues of government – from the Right Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e610	Then a explanation of vote was given.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e613	The Labour Party has been responsible for a long-term industrial policy in which making use of the country's capital and its people's competence and creativity have been the key elements for making value-added throughout the country. Today, that's exactly what's our theme. How to create a climate for innovation In an earlier debate, we have here in the Chamber an exchange of views on this point of view, among other things. by using art as a climate factor in innovation. It must be emphasised that design is actually product development in itself. For those who are going to deliver that message demand, innovation and innovation, it is gratifying that the instrument will now appear to be more co-ordinated and easy to come up with. Here, a strong focus must be on users' needs. A national innovation policy must be a policy for the whole country. We established in District Norway need interaction with the more central strokes, and vice versa. Although we are few inhabitants in this country, Norway is still a large and long-term country, and business has different challenges in different parts of the country. The structure of economic activity varies greatly. This means that priorities and dimensioning of the instrument must be different. Against this background, it is important to stimulate regional testing within the framework of the new innovation and internationalisation unit. In the message, the government points out that in the work towards all target groups, the instrument will focus on promoting women’s participation in business, which is important in order to create greater scarcity and creativity. A large majority in the Committee ask the Government to make concrete proposals in order to achieve the objective of bringing forward more women entrepreneurs when the Government is to present an action plan for a holistic innovation policy to the autumn. In this context, I would particularly like to point out that important women's networks can contribute to this process in order to ensure that the schemes are as effective as possible and deliver the desired results. Many people are anxious about what the government will bring. Experience from other countries can also contribute. In Italy, as a requirement in this area, unless the predefined pot money goes to women’s actions, it is not used for other purposes. Goals are set and results are measured against them. It seems to be working in Italy. Maybe we have something to learn there. It is positive that the central parts of the tool and the home are now better connected. I want to use the opportunity to remind the Minister of Industry that he has to finance these services at such a high level from the state's side that the requirement of ownership does not make these services too expensive for small businesses. The Entrepreneurship Programme, which provides a discount for innovative enterprises through the Council of Exports, must be carried forward and, where appropriate, improved. We have to bet separately on the areas where we are best placed to close. These areas are in particular the marine area, the maritime area and the energy sector. The majority of the Committee emphasises that we need a business strategy that reflects this and that the principle of nutrition neutrality must give way to bet on clearly defined objectives. I look forward to the Minister of Industry taking the time to comment on this in particular before the evening is over. The majority of the Committee has pointed out that farming industry has been considered to be one of the Norwegian industries with the highest potential. Today, private investment is lacking in several parts of the industry. We have to select an area where we ensure that all parts of the production chain are included. It is not useful to bet on producing cod bran if there is no money to get food fish production plants started. Nor does it benefit from large-scale efforts in the field of sequestration without solving the problem of algal toxicity as far as can be expected. Nor does it benefit from large-scale production without the challenges being met by market forces. It is gratifying that the majority is behind asking the Government to assess the possibility of establishing a State guarantee of operational credit for the breeding of cod and shellfish. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Industry to the fact that the media and cultural industries are the fastest both in Europe and in the United States. There may be many new jobs here that can help bring the whole country into use. It's about innovation and must be encouraged. Now it's up to us to make it happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e644	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for a thorough work in a hectic period. We have had a short time in the last and final work here, but I am left with the impression that we have done a thorough job and come into good contact with those who have opinions on this matter. The rapporteur said that he has the ambition to hear an overall business life conclude that this is good, and he said in his post that it might not be so, but that one says it gets better. I think it was a correct conclusion of Ryan, because business has regions between and within regions, different needs and different views of what is a good tool. There are also inter-branches. The industries have different approaches to the instrument. But I agree with Ryan that the business community is going to conclude, once we've made our decision tonight, that it's going to be a lot better. We get a system where businesses – businesses and entrepreneurs – get one door to turn to, flexible and adapted. I noticed a bold opinion from the representative Grethe Fossli, who said that I, as a tower representative – I suppose I am part of that concept – have promised jobs in Trøndelag. I think she can hardly prove that. My point is not that there will be more jobs in the instrument. My point is that we should have an instrument that works to create new jobs, new businesses. But I've also said, and I've been involved in strengthening what's in the proposition, that the decentralised environments of competence that we have are to be used to develop the main functions of the instrument. In connection with the possible long-term integration of SIVA, which has its headquarters in Trondheim, into the new unit, it is important to stress that the head office function should be further developed in cooperation with the innovation environment we have in the region related to SINTEF and NTNU. This with a common user front is important. Now the word "front" might sound a little warriorish, so I prefer to say one door. We propose, in a proposal that gets a majority here today, that both the Export Council, the State Guidance Office for Inventors, the SIVA, the Tourist Council, the SND and the Research Council's nutritious activities should cooperate in the various regional offices that SND has today. Today it's 17. If, in the long term, the new apparatus may find that it is appropriate to regionalise it in another way, then the proposal does not prevent it. I am pleased to note that the units that are to be integrated in the first place, both government, management and employees in these units, are actively and specifically involved in the process. I am also happy to note that there is a great deal of consensus in the units about what is going to happen. I am absolutely convinced that, as the rapporteur said, we will have a business life which, when we have made this decision and have it implemented, we will say, yes, this has been better for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e657	What today's debate is about, is how we're going to set up and organise all of our business-oriented instruments. The starting point is St.prp. No 1, where we put the customers in the center. In such debates and in such processes, many tend to put themselves at the centre. The products are not for themselves; they are for the business community. They are first and foremost a complement to the basic, the framework conditions, and we establish them to ensure their settlement, we establish them so that we can have viable businesses in the whole country. I am therefore pleased that the position of the Economic and Social Committee ends in the fact that a unanimous increase is in line with the comprehensive proposal for the restructuring of instruments. At my discretion, there is a proposal that points forward towards a new time. Norway shall focus on key areas of knowledge, technology and value creation. In order to achieve this, we need to put the creativity of individuals, single businesses, into the centre. The government wants Norway to be one of the world’s most innovative countries. We're not. This in itself won't do it, but it will be a contribution. It's entrepreneurs, it's small businesses, and it's the established industry and the established business we're going to facilitate. I have great faith that what we are going to adopt today is just that. We agree to create a place to turn to. It shall provide users with a gateway to the instruments, and there shall be expertise available there. The common gateway shall be located in offices across the whole country, in addition to the main markets abroad. In addition, the instrument shall use available technologies to develop an interactive user-oriented service on the Internet. It is positive that the mechanism itself of the instruments is getting better than before. Innovation is becoming increasingly important for growth and prosperity. I am pleased that the Government has given its consent, as I said, to establish a new unit for innovation and internationalisation. This unit shall include the instruments of both the SND, the Norwegian Export Council, the State Inventors’ Guidance Office and the Norwegian Tourism Council. This unit becomes a spearhead in increasing innovation among entrepreneurs and small businesses and is given a great responsibility to contribute to the development of strong and innovative existing business environments. The entity shall place a very high level of internationalisation on the agenda. Non-internationally competitive enterprises will not survive tomorrow’s market. Exports of Norwegian technology and transfer of technology to Norway, cross-border flows of competence and profiling Norway as an attractive country to invest in and travel to become central tasks. The government will come back to the harvest with proposals for a special law on how to organize this in detail. It becomes a demanding task for us to implement this preferably from New Year's onwards, and Stortinget has a significant task to do these things as quickly as possible for the autumn. However, I record that there is a unanimous collapse that joins this, and I will try to put together an interim regime that may be the executive force for this to go both quickly and painlessly. Pain-free in the sense of merging as different entities as this is a significant challenge. It is companies that have different forms of organisation, which have their established culture accumulated over decades. Merging these four is a significant task. However, I've spent a lot of time on this process just so that both the management, the board and the employees of these institutions will experience it as reasonable, so that we have a process that makes it when we finally do this, it goes quickly and efficiently. In the end, of course, it is not right as was said by the representative, Mr Enoxen – as far as I remember – that the instrument itself should set its objectives. No, on page 8 of the proposition, in box 1.3, we've explained in detail which main objectives, the focus areas and the priority target groups we're going to have, not just for this unit, but for all of the units that are part of the total instrument. It has been agreed by the Storting, and it will also form the basis of the organisation we are now going to carry out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e681	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e684	The Minister of Industry has received a Tool Box today — with 18 rooms in Norway and 38 in the rest of the world. Now he has to fill the rooms with tools, for example. money, so there's money inside that door that we've been talking so much about. I guess we'll get this back to, for example. Friday. So there is little question to the Minister of Industry of pure curiosity. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, Right, Christian People's Party, SV and the Centre's Party, supported a proposal in which we asked the Minister of Industry to investigate the need for and organisation of regional funds of significant size linked to each part of the country. And we said that the matter was ‘submitted to the Stortinget by 1 February 2003’. And then we haven't seen anything more. I wonder if the Minister of Industry could answer where it has become of that investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e693	First of all, in relation to this, I was about to say, the vast toolbox that the Workers' Party has got on the brain: it was a concept that I used in connection with Statoil being deprived of the tool that the Workers' Party government took from them, about the direct intervention of what was involved in instructing where the orders were to be placed. That tool lifted Jens Stoltenberg's government, by the then oil and energy minister Olav Akselsen, out of the toolbox, and no one in this room has ever been in charge of restoring that toolbox. The second toolbox, which concerns the tool, now has, as far as I can see from the last graph I saw, a level that is higher than the tool box – to use that term – as Mr. Stoltenberg led by the previous Labour Party government. With regard to the fact that the representative has not seen reference to the four regional funds, I would refer to the revised national budget, where we propose the creation of four funds, as far as I remember, of 400 million. Total kr, which has 100 million. kr in the risk provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e702	In its statement, the Council of State was involved in the organisation and arrangement of the public instrument. But the most important thing must be that we realize the projects that have the greatest value and that have potential for development, whether they are located on Dombås, Dokka, in the churches, Hammerfest or the inner East. That must be point number. 1st@item: inlistbox It is no objective truth that a job in Brønnøysund is worth more than a job in the internal east. In the past, the state councils have gone too far in the use of selectivity, which I thought Right was against, it came into the state budget for the current year, i.e. a correction to economically weak areas. We also got something of regionality now in the revised national budget, and then we're going to get a new fund injection into the government budget for next year, targeting economically weak areas. I would like to remind you that during the treatment of the ownership message, the majority of the population called for national seed funds, and made an order to the Government to introduce this. When can we expect this to be followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e711	It is clear that when a person is going to have a debate on the organisation of the instruments, it is natural to discuss their content. Now the matter itself is about the organisation and the focus areas you need. In addition, I agree with the representative Hedstrøm that if a job is on Dombås or Dokka – I do not remember the seven, eight other places mentioned – one is as much worth as the other, that is a matter of course. But then it's a little interesting that I'm criticized for pursuing a selective industrial policy. Five minutes ago, I was criticized for having a business-neutral business policy. And then it was about nationwide seed funds, and they asked when it came. It comes, but now I don't remember the exact date for the submission of the state budget, but it is at least the first week in October, and there will be proposals to establish nationwide seed funds with a framework of 400 million. kr and a loss fund of 100 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e720	I want to ask the Council of State a question in relation to this with a loss fund. I have had the pleasure of having a dialogue with both the government parties and the government council on loss funds in connection with the proposal to add half a billion more to the district billion. It says that if it turns out that the loss fund is not sufficient to make proper use of the funds, then you have to add additional funds to the loss fund. Can the Council of State confirm that if the funds in the district billion are not used in an operational way to the benefit of the districts because the loss fund is too small, will the Council of State ensure that additional loss funds are set aside to do this properly?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e729	It is true that on some loan schemes and on some seed schemes, loss funds must be set aside, as surely as either seed or loans are granted, then losses occur. It's just looking at the accounts for SND, you see it very quickly. And then it's like the Storting on some plans has put 15 pst., and on some schemes you have 25 pst. When you do this in retrospect, it often turns out that you don't hit exactly that percentage. Sometimes it gets better, but in most cases it gets significantly worse. The Stortinget must then give additional permission. So the question about whether to go in earlier here if you don't get rid of the money. One has chosen a standard profile here, but it's clear that if it turns out that it would be restrictive to make investments in the risk profile that have to be eliminated after you have 25 pst. loss fund reserves, the government, as it says in the vote, will have to come back to it, and of course I will have to follow up on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e736	It may well be a comfort to the Minister of Economic Affairs that there are people before him who have said, ‘To be prepared for all, no one can do’ – as a little mention of his heart’s sigh. I would like to challenge the Minister of Industry when he says that the instruments are not available for the device itself, but for the industry. That's quite obvious. But if our tool is to be able to do a job for business, you have to be equipped in a way that makes it possible. And then my specific question is: will the Minister of Industry facilitate this, among other things. the equity situation of the instrument will be satisfactory, so that private capital can be attracted where there is a supplement and so that there is a sufficient funding base to cope with its tasks? When I ask about this, it's because the reorganisation – among other things, by Argentum - results in a significant reduction in the book capital of these companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e744	We have to set up this new unit with the tools to do, and then deal with what is a necessary supplement to equity. We're essentially doing that through the seed scheme. I have the impression that geographically it varies a lot with regard to whether you can make use of the appropriations that the public has given, which are to be matched with private funds. Some regions have done very well. They will now be able to get new funds, while those who have somehow failed to use up what they have will have to wait to be filled. In the case of Argentum and whether the balance sheet changes in relation to SIVA, I cannot understand that it will mean one krone more or one krone less in equity to one Norwegian company. The fact that we are now organizing this in the way that Grete Knudsen proposed in the previous period – which I agreed with at the time, but which I know the Workers' Party then disagreed with – I think is very appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e753	I was very surprised at the answer I received from the Council of State. When we worked on this matter and I made this proposal, we wrote some positive comments about what was in the revised national budget. But then I asked the government parties in the committee to check whether what was said there was a response to this proposal. I got a denouncing answer, and then we drew our positive comments and wrote that the council had not followed up. Who's right? I would like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e760	I do not remember all the wordings in the big message that we dealt with a year ago. However, as far as I recall, it was about regional seed funds, without any figures. But I know exactly that in the revised national budget we have proposed to set up four funds of 400 million in total. kr, with a loss fund of 100 million. kr. It may well be that some of the proposers had other ambitions when it came to sizes. However, as far as I understand it, the position of the Financial Committee on the revised national budget states that it will be agreed with what the Government has proposed on this point. In addition, the situation we are discussing today shows that a new national seed fund will be set up for the autumn, but with a district profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e769	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e774	I need to comment on proposal No. 17 a little bit, a proposal that the representative, Mr Enoxsen, was also on. I think he was a little surprised that SV did not support that proposal. I understand that it surprises me, because we in SV are very positive about the kind of thinking that the Central Party is in favour of in proposal No. 17. It is proposed to build up heavy regional funds with significant capital, so that both longer-term and more power and authority have moved out into the regions. The reason why we are not voting in favour of this proposal – and this is a explanation of vote, President – is that we have a similar proposal together with the government parties, where we are asking for this to be discussed with regional funds. That's why it becomes unnatural and wrong for us to go into a proposal that has somehow concluded before we've done investigations in a thorough way. Finally, I would like to comment on SND Invest a little bit more, since it has received so much attention in the debate – sail if it was not at all part of the content of the proposition, as it came from the Government. As a new member of the National Assembly, I am surprised that one year you decide to sell SND Invest and put government and department to work on such a job, and that just before you put the decision into practice – and do what the Stortinget has decided – there is a proposal from the Stortinget to reverse the whole process. For me, there's going to be a strange way of working. I think the Stortinget is getting into a bad light by applying the type of work. It is also one of the reasons why we believe that SND Invest should be sold, in addition to the arguments I have made earlier in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e785	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3438]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e801	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Workers' Party, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the Councils. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e810	Today we are going to deal with a matter that is quite complicated and quite complex. First of all, the issue is the capital injection into State power, the desire to provide State power with a capital of DKK 10 billion. Secondly, it is about the competitive situation in the Nordic power market, it is about ownership, how we are going to organise the future ownership of the Norwegian power industry, and last but not least, it is about the decision taken by the Competition Authority to oblige Statkraft to sell out in order to be allowed to make new purchases. Unfortunately, I have received a very short time for my post, so I have to go over to briefly to present SV's views on this matter. SV has always been very concerned about having strong public ownership of the power sector in Norway. We have historical traditions from just after the 1900s, compared to being concerned that we should have official control and a public ownership of Norwegian hydropower resources. Thus, for many years, we have built up many strong public environments, and Statkraft has gradually emerged as the most desperate we have in Norway, but there are also strong environments around in counties and associations between municipalities. What we experience, however, is that a number of municipalities – including county municipalities – choose to sell out because they have to have money to finance the costs that the welfare state requires of them. That is why we find ourselves in a situation where there must be some buyers on the market when there are some sellers there. The fact that Statkraft gets its capital strengthened so that they get the opportunity to buy up, we initially think SV is good, because it helps to secure public ownership of the hydropower resources. That's why we're positive that State power gets 10 billion dollars, so that they have the opportunity to do so, especially after they've been treated too hard by the state in previous years. But giving State power 10 billion dollars, we're doing in SV with a certain bismach. The reason why we do it with a certain bismach, is that we know that in this room there are parties that want to part-privatize and privatize Statkraft. The progress party has been very clear on that, the right has not been so clear on that, but in different contexts it has at least been suggested from the right party that you could think of sharing State power. In this way, we may be in danger that by contributing to the stimulation of state power by giving them money to buy up municipal and county e-works, this next round could lead to a very strong power of state that a majority of Norwegian magnificence will sell once in the future, and then the height of fall becomes incredibly high. That's why we're making this capital injection to State power of $10 billion with a bismach, because we don't know what's going on in five years, ten years or fifteen years. We'd rather have wanted a lot more public environments than just Statkraft. We could have imagined working forward towards more heavy, public energy players around the country – like some in North Norway, in Central Norway, in the West, etc. And we hope that it is possible to get back to Stortinget with a case where we can discuss this more thoroughly than just through a Document No. Eight proposals. I think it is absolutely necessary and important in the future, when we know that sales will take place – there will be concession power coming in, and a number of other things will happen in the Norwegian power industry – that the Storting has a thorough discussion of how to deal with this, so that we can safeguard the national hydropower resources on public hands in the future. As far as I am aware, there have been some recent discussions on whether or not to have a majority in this proposal – whether or not to receive EUR 10 billion – should be taken into account. I would like to address the proposals that SV has promoted together with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e839	The representative of Inge Ryan has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e842	An important distinction between the Workers' Party and the Government is that we in the Workers' Party believe it is important to pursue an active industrial policy. This applies in all areas, including travel, maritime, energy, etc. We don't want to sit with our hands in jail and see that business is struggling. We want to create and facilitate growth in Norway. The power sector is an important industry that manages Norwegian natural resources and significant economic values in power plants and transmission links. Power supply in Norway is subject to extensive social governance, including: through significant public ownership. The Labour Party believes that there are at least two reasons for continuing public ownership in the power sector. Firstly, public ownership contributes to safeguarding national ownership. This is important because it ensures that head offices, decisions and other strategic functions remain in Norway. Public ownership should, in the view of the Labour Party, be used to ensure national anchoring of important companies in Norway, and this is the reason for the state participation in, for example. Telenor, Statoil and Hydro. Secondly, public ownership is important because it contributes to securing the Community income from the additional income associated with ownership of natural resources, the so-called land rate. This is the reason why the State has significant holdings in the oil and gas bodies and there is a justification for public ownership of the power resources. The aim of the Labour Party is to have at least one Norwegian company that can be a significant player in the European power industry, as well as that we believe that regional Norwegian companies must also play a role in the Nordic power market. A strong State power is essential for Norway to increase in Nordic and European power supplies. State power was introduced in 2001 into new equity at DKK 6 billion to participate in the ongoing restructuring of the power industry in Norway and Europe. State power has grown, but is still small in Nordic context. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that we need to continue the process of financial strengthening of the enterprise. The government itself has sent a letter to the Minister of Industry pointing out that the loss of state guarantees for new loans following the amendment of the State Enterprise Act in 2002 will weaken the competitiveness of the company in the years ahead. This, in our opinion, requires capital injection now in order to ensure continued growth. State power is still waiting, as I understand it, for answers from the Minister of Industry. Is the Government's strategy that State power should not be allowed to grow, not in Norway and not abroad? The government is draining the company for capital, it's not responding to Statkraft's request for more capital, and as if not enough, Norman's government council takes decisions that refuse State power to grow in Norway. So the government refuses its own company to buy up in Norway and ensures that the basic rate remains in Norway for the future. What should the oil money be used for? Finally, a word about the energy company Hafslund. We believe it is wrong for the Municipality of Oslo to add up to a sale. The ownership of the municipality in Hafslund provides long-term income, and the ownership of the municipality of Oslo is part of a comprehensive ownership of many Norwegian municipalities, which together are crucial to ensuring nationally anchored power companies in Norway. The Labour Party suggests that the Government will contribute to ensuring a Norwegian solution for Hafslund, as expressed by the Minister of Energy. Now there are several possible solutions, but one of them is that Statkraft gets into the owner's side. Most importantly, it is still in Norwegian hands. I take this up with me the proposals of the Workers' Party on their own, or I agree with others in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e865	The representative Grethe Fossli has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e868	The Ministry of Economic Affairs has received an application from Statkraft for more capital. This application is currently pending. Since there are rather complex issues to be addressed in this context, the Right sees it as perfectly natural that the Ministry should continue the process of evaluating the application. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, by letter to the Committee, has stated that the objectives of the Stortingen Company, as demonstrated by the announcement of ownership adopted last year, will be taken into account. I think it is quite surprising that some parties – in fact, up to several – appear in this Chamber on the basis of a Document No. Eight proposals are willing to grant a total of $10 billion to a company without a single investigation or prior assessment. On the right, it is not a matter for the state to purchase Oslo Municipality's shares in Hafslund ASA. I actually thought that thoughts about that kind of state activism belonged to the past. Fortunately, there is no majority in favour of this proposal on the ownership structure of the former in the power market. In the right, there is no good reason to say that increased state ownership is important in order to ensure national control. Municipalities, county councils and the state already own 85 pst. of the power generation. Foreign ownership is very marginal. I would also like to remind you that Norwegian stakeholders have submitted bids for Oslo Municipality's shares in Hafslund ASA. This will, as far as possible, meet the wishes of the proposers for a stronger national ownership environment. At the same time, the nationality of ownership is less important for national value creation and control. To ensure value creation in the power sector and national control of natural resources, it is the framework conditions for power generation and the legislation governing the power sector that counts most. However, local and nationally anchored ownership may have an impact on long-term industrial development. In the right, there are other instruments that are more important to ensure good national ownership environments, not only in the power sector but also in other parts of the economy. Through a good tax system, we can give Norwegian owners equal terms to their competitors in other countries. This is essential for ensuring national ownership. The government has already removed the double taxation of dividends on shares. In addition, the Government aims to reduce taxes on wealth. In the configuration of the Skauge Committee, we also find several proposals aimed at securing Norwegian ownership, both in the power sector and in other sectors. Due to the competitive situation, the Ministry of Labour and Administrative Affairs of the State Department ordered that the companies Hedmark Energi and E-CO should sell themselves as a condition for buying up in Agder Energi. In addition, the Government commissioned State Power to sell itself down at Trondheim Energieverk. The evaluations were carried out in accordance with internationally recognised principles for the assessment of relevant markets in competition matters. The aim is to ensure that consumers can be sure that a company does not obtain monopoly profits at the expense of consumers. The decision was taken on the basis of the Competition Act and there is therefore no reason for the Right to support the proposal that the Government should review it in the light of the new competition law adopted by the Stortinget. I find it rather strange that the parties that screamed the highest in winter that the power prices were too high are the same as they are now doing what they can to weaken competition and give individual companies better opportunities to get a dominant position in the market. After all, the fact that we got competition on this market has led to significantly lower prices of power. If we are to ensure the lowest possible electricity prices in the future, it will require that we have common competitive mechanisms. Right won't be on proposals that can give higher power prices to people most and to business. It will hit the power-intensive industry and those who have at least before, hardest. To date, there has been a broad political agreement that we should exempt the Norwegian industry from electricity taxes, in order to ensure them good competitive conditions. The government has recently submitted a proposal to ensure that all businesses are exempt from electricity taxes. In a difficult time for Norwegian competitive jobs and businesses, it is sought to see that several parties are ready to vote for a proposal that can provide higher electricity prices. Competitive enterprises need better framework conditions, not higher costs. Finally, I would like to address the proposal on which the Right and Christian People's Party are united, and which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e889	The representative Silja Ekeland Bjørkly has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e892	Before I begin my completed script, I have to comment on the comments made by the representative Ekeland Bjørkly with the claim that electricity prices will increase. We now have a free power market. The Energy Act was dealt with in 1990, and it is not the size of an energy company that determines electricity prices, there is supply and demand in the market. It's that simple. The proposal discussed by the Stortinge addresses the development of national ownership of energy resources in Norway in general, and the ownership of Hafslund in particular. The Progress Party shares much of the concerns expressed by the proposers in the proposal. We also believe it is important to use some of the state's capital strength to secure some industrial locomotives from Norway in Norwegian hands. Even in sectors where Norway has natural advantages, the necessary development opportunities are lacking. This is special. Such an area is the power sector, with the great potential, in particular, for hydroelectric power in the form of renewable energy to give us. In a serious and important situation, with large foreign players in a buying-in competition, the debate here is mostly about the size of State power in relation to the market. In order for the energy sector to remain one of the solid foundations of Norwegian business, this debate needs to be given new dimensions. In order to continue a significant Norwegian energy industry feature, it is absolutely necessary that we have some large companies that can measure up to large Nordic and European companies. The internationalisation of the power market makes it very important to ensure national control of Norwegian power resources and Norwegian competence. I would like to comment on some of the proposals of the Progress Party in a context, namely the proposal that a capital injection of DKK 10 billion should be made. for the current year and to give the Government the power to convert State power into a limited liability company. The Progress Party considers that there are several good reasons why the Storting should support the introduction of capital into State power in the current situation. If the State enterprise is to develop into an important player in the Nordic and European markets, the objective must be to transform the company into a limited liability company. During the hearing of the Liaison Committee on the matter, Statkraft’s representatives presented the company’s strategy. Here it was emphasised that it is not appropriate to extend the company’s power generation portfolio in Norway. The three main pillars of the company’s strategy are a good financial platform and credit rating as well as a consolidation and possible reduction of ownership position in Norway with an expansion in Europe. A strengthening of the state power's capital situation we believe is an important prerequisite for the transformation into a limited liability company that the government provided in the ownership notification and that the Stortinge was treated last year. Converting to a limited liability company will contribute to a greater degree of long-termity in the strategic positions of the company, through more predictability of the dividend policy and the return requirements. It's just to say, the government has shown little action in this case. When the Storting pointed out in June last year the need to assess all aspects of the transformation into a limited liability company, including the social tasks imposed on the enterprise, it was expected from the large majority that this work was prioritised by the Government. A year has now passed since the ownership notification was dealt with, without the Government having submitted a proposition, or at least a plan for this transformation to take place. It is very damaging to Statkraft, who is in a dynamic market, when it has no greater certainty about the future ownership structure. That's what's the truth. It's a wish from Statkraft to be measured in line with others in the same industry. One wants to be an ordinary share company, even though the ownership structure is 100 pst. state ownership is the same. We follow up with a proposal in line with this, namely to transform State power into a limited liability company. We also have a proposal that goes further, which includes listing and an entry with 30 pst. private ownership. We believe that a spread of ownership will provide clearer guidance signals and help Statkraft to develop further. International developments are moving towards fewer and larger companies in the power sector, and this is important that we now have to follow up, says the Progress Party. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions of our party, referred to in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e918	The representative Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e921	The matter that we have to deal with here today is the extension of a special case that was updated through the planned hall of its axans in the energy company Hafslund ASA. In the last week we received the first episode, when the majority of Stortinget decided on a change with uncertain effect on competition law, without any prior legal work and without legal control. In this episode of the series, which we may call Lex Hafslund, it is the Labour Party that makes five proposals that have been the subject of extensive debate and that in itself confronts us with challenges of completely different dimensions than the Oslo Commune's possible hall of its owner's part in Hafslund. On the one hand, it's the law. The last week's change implies that we have a well-functioning transfer system to the Nordic countries. We don't have that yet. During periods, there are bottlenecks in the transmission of electricity. But then to the representative Hedstrøm's last post, where he claimed that we have free competition in Norway. Because we have little alternative capacity when it comes to competing energy in the Norwegian market, competition is not free in Norway today. It's a very important intention. Reducing competition in this situation will affect customers and provide more expensive electricity prices. This clearly does not concern the plurality of Stortinget. The Competition Authority, as it is known, ordered State power to sell out of three power-generating companies after State power bought up in Agder Energie, in strong competition with another Norwegian regional energy player, Light Energy, who, in my opinion, should have been given the opportunity to develop as a strong regional player in competition with State Power. On the other hand, it seems that several of the proposals from the Labour Party do not aim to keep Hafslund on Norwegian hands, but to make Statkraft bigger and stronger on the domestic market than they already are. This applies both to the proposal to add more equity to Statkraft, to extend the deadline for the sale of energy in Hedmark and Trondheim Energiverk and to the change in the competition law to which I have previously referred. It is tempting to ask whether the proposers really believe that State power should become an even stronger domestic actor, given that the aim of the proposal is to prevent Hafslund from reaching Finnish hands. How, then, will one create a scheme that opens up to favor Statkraft? We know, for example. that there are three other national stakeholders inside the image who are purchasing the power generation part of Hafslund. I think it would be clarifying if the majority in the committee decided whether there was a strengthening of State power, or whether it was national ownership that was the purpose of this proposal. It would also be interesting to know what the various parties that today support the Workers' Party's proposal, each of them thinking about the role of Statkraft in the energy sector. I am unfortunately afraid that we will not get an answer to this in today's debate. We know that Statkraft has submitted an application to add more equity. We will allow the Ministry to take the time it takes to clarify the conditions necessary to deal with the application from State Power when this is the case, whether the capital injection is relevant, and any conditions under which this capital is used, domestically or abroad. The Christian People's Party is interested in the greatest possible degree of national control over power generation, but we don't see it as a major point that Statkraft is going to be so much bigger than they are today domestically. National ownership is not guaranteed by changes in promises and not by proposals that are almost adopted over the table, but by broad political cooperation to create framework conditions that make the Norwegian power sector interesting to Norwegian investors. We like to be involved in such a process, but panic laws have never created a framework that creates such an interest, rather the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e943	The centre party is for a strong public ownership of the energy supply. But we are also for the most widespread ownership possible. And there's no reason to hide that we haven't been particularly excited about all the municipalities that have let themselves be lured into selling their power plants. For us, there is no objective of maximising State power on the domestic market. We want a scattered ownership. But at the same time, I would add that as an alternative to getting into a situation where the power plants that, after all, are sold, are bought up by foreign companies, it is strengthening State power a good alternative, including for us, and, if necessary, also through changes in competition law, so that one can see the Nordic market more closely together. Nor am I of those who believe that Statkraft will be able to act as a monopoly in a market and thus set energy prices. We will not, on this basis, reject equity injections to State power if necessary. But it must actually be on a basis where, firstly, it is part of a comprehensive strategy for the development of State power and, secondly, a certain minimum of case preparation. That is why the Central Party will vote against a capital injection where one may have the impression that one has almost put one's finger into the air and said as such: We think it is right to give State power 10 billion kroner in new equity – at the very end of the session, without any prior proceedings. State power itself says to the Evening Post that they are asking for 12 billion kroner in new equity to grow out. No one will be able to predict how State power will use the ten billion that they may receive in new equity today, without any commitment from the Stortinge and with the freedom that State power has to choose for itself where to invest. I would also like to remind you that it is not long since Statkraft actually received an equity injection of NOK 6 billion, which has been widely used to buy at home. That's not necessarily wrong. It's better than that the hydropower is sold out, but we should once again make demands on ourselves about a certain minimum of preparation for this kind of thing. Finally, what we are witnessing now – what may happen – is beyond the budgetary range of time. The majority of the sizes have made sure to take out 95 pst. the surplus in State power in the form of dividends and the nearest extinguishment of the company for equity, contrary to the guidelines adopted by the Stortinget itself on a dividend policy in which no more than 50 pst should be charged. of the profits of a holding. This is above the line-money and can be used again over the budgetary line and thus does not affect the budgetary balance when you have created room to solve tasks that you want to do in this way by taking out such a huge dividend. And then you take the next round and make a decision to fill $10 billion at the bottom with so-called "under the line" money, which also doesn't affect the budget balance, and which therefore doesn't enter the budget and the accounts in the way that all economists run and rain on their indicators. It is simply a budget line! In fact, a responsible owner would have handled this in a completely different way. The owner would have allowed the company to keep such a large proportion of the profits that it had been able to build up to make investments and be solid in relation to meeting future challenges. When you see at the top of it all that Statkraft's credit rating is weakened, precisely because you drain the company for capital by taking out the whole profit, this becomes even more serious. That means that, in sum, State power receives more expensive funding than they need. Let's get a comprehensive plan of the equity needs and the strategy of the State Power, so the Center Party is going to be involved in a serious assessment of an expansion of equity, but not on the basis that exists today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e958	The power sector is undergoing significant restructuring both nationally and internationally. Companies grow, companies are sold, and companies are bought. And this happens incredibly quickly. In such a development, it is important that we also have a strategy on how Norway as an energy nation and the Norwegian companies can participate in this development. Unfortunately, it does not seem that the Government is particularly concerned about this, but it has to innovate that we have a Nordic power market, and eventually also a European power market. Prices in this market are not determined in a Norwegian market. Prices are determined by the supply and demand of the Nordic power exchange Norpool. In this market, Statekraft is a competitor with both larger and smaller Nordic power producers. Therefore, we believe that competition in the power market must be seen in such a perspective, not only in a narrow Norwegian perspective, as the Competition Authority and the Government actually do. In such a situation, we cannot sit still and see that only the foreign companies are going to develop and get muscle, while the energy nation of Norway is at risk of becoming a branch country. The Labour Party believes that we must give the largest company we have in Norway, Statekraft, the opportunity to claim in this competition. And that is also why we have proposed to strengthen the company by adding NOK 10 billion to increased equity, which should not compete with either kindergartens, nursing homes or other things. I'm glad we're with SV on this. I also understand that the Progress Party will vote subsidiaryly in favour of this, and I think that is very welcome. We simply don't have time to sit and wait for the government to decide. Government sent a letter to the Minister of Economic Affairs on 18 December last year, and the Minister of Economic Affairs has not yet been able to respond to this. I hear that part of the government's parties are trying to suggest that there might be a majority for strengthening State power as if there would now be higher electricity prices for consumers. This is at best a major derailment of the debate and I think it is actually wrong. Now, the government and government have to take over the fact that we have a Nordic power market, and that's whether we get enough power out or not, which will be decisive for how high power prices will be in the future. The government doesn't have much to boast about there. There are more energy companies in other Nordic countries that are larger than State power. I have not recorded any major debate that these companies lead to higher electricity prices for consumers in those countries. But I understand that in the absence of an active energy policy, the representatives of the government parties need to find bad excuses for high power prices. But this reasoning does not hold the goal! The matter we are dealing with today was particularly updated when the City Council of the Right in Oslo chose to outsource Oslo Municipality's shares in Hafslund for sale. The Hafslund case is an important matter in itself, but it is also a visualisation of the way in which the Higher Energy Policy is reflected in practical policies. They want to sell power plants and an important part of our infrastructure, or – in other words – our legacy silver. It doesn't seem to matter to this government, or to the Right, whether it's foreign or Norwegian owners, but it actually does for the Workers' Party. I believe the Hafslund case is just one example of faulty ownership policy from the right forces, and I also believe that the Competition Authority's and Government's orders that Statkraft sell out of Hedmark Energie, Trondheim Energieverk and E-CO are not very good either. It is a requirement that large holdings in these companies will also be able to hold foreign hands if nothing happens at this time. I am therefore pleased that there is a majority here in Stortinget who say clearly that in the light of changes to the Competition Act and in the light of the examination of this case, it is desirable that these decisions be reviewed. The Labour Party is very concerned about the policy of the Government regarding the development of the Norwegian power industry. Not only are we talking about Statkraft, but we are also talking about many and large regional power companies, which individually form a significant part of regional business, and which are important players in developing viable and strong regions. A strategy for their development is also totally absent from government party policies. This is about continuing to control our natural resources. That is why I am pleased that several of our proposals today seem to have a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e979	Let me say this: I am glad that it is not often we have debates of this kind about some of the locomotives in Norwegian business and Norwegian industry. If the other companies in which we have large holdings and the substantial parts of the national wealth are located were to have the same kind of proceedings and the same kind of debates, probably credit ratings, stock prices and values in the markets would fall considerably. This is, in my opinion, the closest thing you get is a parody on the treatment of numbers of such size. Now, for four weeks, more or less for open cameras, the Storting Financial Committee has been constantly negotiating on the revised national budget, and as far as I understand from the setting, the framework has changed at a rate of 800 million. kr. That's 8 pst. of the amount we are talking about taking on the heel and adding to equity, in effect, without any kind of continuous processing. Let me start by saying, while I still have 3 minutes and 52 seconds left: we got an application on December 18th, which we've spent considerable resources evaluating, not just in the department, but in the most recognized international companies. There should be no doubt that there have been preliminary changes in this process in order to arrive at a result. I can only say that it appears as a strange thing when parts of what are probably becoming a majority today, on the one hand, are concerned that we should use that equity to buy us into Norwegian companies, and on the other hand, there is someone who is concerned that this should be used to strengthen us internationally. And when I read the Evening Post today, and see what the Governor of Statkraft says, this is especially to expand in Europe. Now it's natural that a state council has even more information than both what's in the Evening Post, and what a committee will always have an overview of, but it's at least such that this is a highly complex image, to say it carefully. In my opinion, this is one of the most unprofessional forms of proceedings, at least as long as I have been responsible for exercising ownership. We're talking about companies that have values between 50 and 70 and 80 billion kroner – that's what the scholars can argue about. I think it is regrettable that this is the way to keep things going. Let's be clear. I think Enoxen – I kept saying – for once made a very good comment that here there is a need to see things in a context. And when I think about the basic material we have for the application we're going to answer, and what amounts are used to investigate these things, I have to say that the world isn't what it once was. At the top of it all, there is talk of the parties that, in the context of the ownership message, were particularly concerned with figuring out another form of ownership, where we were to move it away from the politicians, are those who have now run not only a finger in the salad, but actually are kneeling in this salad dish. You would think it had to be to get a shield against yourself. There may well be a need for equity in both one company and the other. But the fact that we are going to have a company that needs to have a sort of rocking card on how this is to be done, and it seems almost as if we are approaching the end of the world if we do not get this added overnight in a decision in the Storting, is a strange thing, and I would say especially as regards what you can read in the Evening Post today, where there is a European strategy. So you have to do exactly the opposite of what the Workers' Party proposed in both the Telenor and Statoil cases: when you start to expose risks on the continent, in Asia and where you might be, there is a need to look at a complex ownership. Well, I'm going to read in this setting what you want for the Workers' Party and what you don't want. You want to keep a high rhetoric, but at least you haven't signaled in the setting that you want to vote in favour of the Progress Party's proposal to grant these 10 billions. Mrs. Brustad just said she had so little time. At least she has postponed the transfer of equity by six months, until the budget procedure for the autumn. I think that's very wise for several reasons, no matter what might be going on in other processes. But it will always be that in companies of this size there will be processes going on where there are industrial things that are to be assessed. It is quite right, as it is said, that this market has not sat down in any way. But I think it would be wise if the Storting for the future chose another way to sue a transfer of $10 billion, or – as Hagen tends to say – 10,000 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e998	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1001	I have to say that it is quite amazing to hear the Council of State here accusing the majority of them of engaging in unprofessional proceedings. This is a matter that has been worked for a long time, and in particular it is amazing even when the Council of State, which is in practice the owner of this company, does not respond to a letter within six months. So there's a lot of processes going on, so that up to several companies are in danger of getting into foreign hands. I realize that for the right it doesn't matter. But then I actually think it's more real to say that, than trying to pretend like you mean someone else than what you really do. I believe that the Council of State and the Government here are driving a coup d'état of State power. It's not being a serious and active owner. It's being a passive owner. It must be possible to give an answer. I wonder, what exactly is the Council of State going to do with Statkraft? Is it really that it doesn't matter if more of our power companies are in Norwegian or foreign hands? And why is it completely impossible to give a clear answer when it's been six months?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1008	In normal circumstances, we have some routines on how long it will take to answer a letter, and that is not a very long time. This letter was, although it came immediately before Christmas, not in any way part of a Christmas greeting. There are significant investigations to assess an equity injection of between 0 and 20 billion. Clearly, this implies so many processes that they are nothing to be answered in the course of the process. I can say from this pulpit that along the way there have been significant changes in the premises that we have to consider in order to be able to answer these things, without me going to explain them in detail here and now. Then Mrs. Brustad says that we are in danger of power companies ending up on foreign hands. It is not part of my ownership of the ownership of Statkraft to make assessments of which company will come to which hands. It's the other organs that do. My job is to help the company operate properly and rationally within the capital structure it has at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1015	The Council of State came up with a strong criticism of the opposition parties of how they have handled this Document No. The 8th proposal. What the opposition is trying to do is to take care of Norwegian interests, to give Statkraft economic muscles so that it can grow internationally in line with the strategy of Statekraft and in line with Norwegian interests. Why should we not, with the unique opportunities Norway has in terms of clean energy, grow to become a major power in Europe? What the government is doing is slowing that development and showing paralysis. That is why I do not think that the opposition should be criticized in the first place. We dealt with the ownership notification a year ago and a possible transformation of State power into a limited liability company. There was nothing at the time, because you had to come back to Stortinget with a matter from the Government to get this discussed with the special tasks. Now it's been a whole year. When can the government put this case on the table, so that we can discuss the transformation into a corporation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1029	Criticize the opposition – well, now is not Hedstrom of the most hairy in this world, and neither am I. But that one expresses a strong disagreement, and that one points out part of the procedure in this case, is not strange, and I think it is quite clear when the representative Hedstrøm says that we have to do this in order for State power to grow internationally – that is, the opposite of what Sylvia Brustad said, that it was in order to secure Norwegian power plants on national hands. So it's probably the same ten billion that's going to be used for both of these. We should, of course, make sure that, like the energy storm we are, with the ownership we have in three large companies, Statoil, Hydro and Statkraft, we also at all times assess whether we should use these holdings to establish structures that can maintain the ambition that we should be a great force of energy and have companies that can... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1036	Active, good owners are important in Norwegian business. I see the state in connection with State Power acting as a passive owner. Then one might ask: why does the state act under this regime and this government as passive owner? Then I get some reflections in relation to the municipality of Oslo. For the Municipality of Oslo, which also has a Right-dominant government with the support of the Advance Party, an active owner who sells his power plant, who sells its gold source, and not enough that they sell it, but they sell it quite boldly – at least they consider selling it quite boldly – to foreigners. It is also the Right who governs the country. Is there any correlation between the way the Right is governed in Oslo and the way the Right is governed by national policies? Does the Right have the same type of strategy as the Right in the Municipality of Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1043	Does the Right have the same strategy in the Government as in all municipalities where we are engaged? Of the decisions taken in local government, it will be possible to see that there are different points of view. In the case of passive and non-passive ownership relating to this case, especially in the case of Hafslund, I can at least tell you that I had a visit by the Chairman of Statekraft, who asked for advice related to the purchase or not the purchase of Hafslund. My answer to what owns was quite simple: if Statkraft thinks it's commercially correct within the available capital structure they have, they have to do what they think is right. It is and will be a management task to make these choices. It would be very strange, and I hope that I do not misunderstand the bulk of the population, if they believe that after such debates as this, we should go into and instruct State Power in what they mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1051	Initially, I did not intend to take a line, because in substance, I agree with what the Council of State has now said. But in the light of the way in which the Council of State formulates itself – he says this is one of the most unprofessional forms of proceedings he has seen, that it is regrettable what the decision of the Stortinget is doing, and that he has knowledge in the matter that the Committee does not have – can I actually not allow myself to ask the Council of State the following questions: Does the Council of State see itself on the basis of what he himself has now said, able to implement and take responsibility for the decision that now appears to be being taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1058	As the representative of Enoxsen is more in agreement with than the majority in this Chamber, of course, managing a department would mean having a lot of knowledge it is not natural to communicate to the public, at least at such a time, and in some contexts it would not be natural at an early stage to inform them here in the Stortinget. There are processes that have to end in something. So until the matter of the Council of State can handle and implement and put into practice this decision. I assume that what it is then intended to do is proposal No. 3, which will receive subsidiary support from the Progress Party: ‘The decision asks the Government, at the latest, in the context of the 2004 State Budget, to add State Power 10 billion. kronor in new equity to strengthen the company.» The desire is, of course, relatively short-lived, in so far as there are no changes in the premises between now and the first week of October.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1070	The Christian People's Party, which is part of this government, contributed in the year 2000 to the capital injection of State power of NOK 6 billion. Now, when I hear the Council of Gabrielsen again, I can suspect that there must be a conflict here within the Government. In addition, I think the Council of State now has to stop interfering with the budgetary balance in this debate, because this is not expenditure on the State budget, and the Council of State knows that very well. I think the Council of State says this because the Right does not want to. This is simply a redeployment of the state's wealth, and it does not affect the budgetary balance at all. I react to the fact that the Council of State is as approximate as we have now heard in relation to precisely these things. Moreover, it is clear in the position, if the Council of State has read it, that we are saying that State power must be able to grow both in the Nordic and in the European market, not just in Norway. And I also take it as a matter of course that the Council of State is going to follow up the decisions that the Stortinget will take this evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1079	Even though it's getting late in the evening, I think I remember what I said. I don't remember being in either the word budget balance or anything that has had to do with it at all. I am probably at least as aware as Mrs. Brustad that this is money below the line and a capital relocation that will not affect over the line-allocations. Of course, I am fully aware of that. Nevertheless, an allocation of DKK 10 billion is a significant amount, I think. When it comes to fighting in the government, I have to say that when we look at the history we've had in these areas, it's strange if it hadn't been a breach of opinion, but it's a small fraction of the dissent that took place at the national meeting of the Workers' Party before part-privatisation of Statoil and Telenor, and appears to be the pure family fiddle in relation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1086	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1091	When a majority today allows Statkraft to put a suction tube in the treasury, and the majority provides the company with DKK 10 billion of taxpayers' money, it must be allowed to demand a justification. Is it for the sake of consumers? Nope. When a company is given the opportunity to take an even more dominant position, it means less competition and higher price. Is it for business's sake that a company is going to have to add NOK 10 billion? By no means. It's for the sake of one state company, Statkraft. When the Stortinge dealt with the previous capital expansion, the Progress Party and the Right stood on the same side. At that time, Øyvind Vaksdal of the Progress Party stated: ‘So here we’re going to use 6 billion healthy tax dollars, and then the Norwegian population is going to get back electricity prices as thanks for the help. Understand him who can!’ Few people are surprised that the Progress Party has changed its position in these two years, but that two different visions are flagged in the same setting, which is more alarming. When the matter was discussed in the Business Committee, the members of the Advance Party stated: ‘These members believe that it is only as a listed and partially privatised company that State power can meet the objectives set by the proposers as justification in their proposal. For these members, this is a prerequisite for an increase in the State capital injection of 10 billion. krona to Statekraft.’» In other words, the Progress Party stressed that it was a prerequisite for State power to be quoted and sub-privatized in order to add DKK 10 billion. The matter was then transferred to the Energy and Environment Committee, where the Progress Party states: ‘The party considers, therefore, that there are many good reasons why the Storting should support the introduction of capital into State power in the current situation.’ What was a prerequisite when the matter was discussed in the Business Committee has now become a long-term objective. And today we are told that the Progress Party will vote to transfer NOK 10 billion to the State without any requirement for stock exchange listing and sub-privatisation. This is a reverse operation that has taken place from one committee to another. I have to admit that when I heard that the Progress Party was running around and calling myself the old work party, I was a bit in a hurry. But when you see how the Progress Party has acted on this matter, I have to say that I am no longer wondering.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1115	One should not speculate in the motives of other parties for the proposals that are being promoted, but it does happen, as for example. at document No The 8-proposal now under consideration – DKK 10 billion to Statkraft, direct State acquisition of Oslo’s shares in Hafslund, and Stortinget as the appeal body for the Competition Authority’s decision. To take the last one first: competition will ensure that resources are used as efficiently as possible, for the benefit of customers, including in Norway, I thought. However, considering repealing the Competition Authority’s decision and thus forgetting Norwegian electricity customers is the opposite. I wonder what we as power customers have done wrong, when the majority of the Storing wants less competition. So the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left – and I now understand the Progress Party – want to grant 10 billion kroner to Statkraft, so that Statkraft among others. can buy the shares of Oslo Municipality in Hafslund because Norwegian power companies are exposed to competition from abroad and it is important to secure national owners. I don't think foreign competition or lack of national control is so very alarming when the government owns 85 pst. of the power generation. Some even say the opposite: too little competition. Now it seems to be a little bit of a tick in this proposal. I see in the paper today that Statkraft is not interested in buying Hafslund at all. They'd rather spend the money abroad. However, the allocation is proposed to be maintained, but the motives may have changed along the way. But for the sake of justice, the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left have proposed direct State acquisition of Oslo Municipality's shares in Hafslund. They'd probably prefer to forbid Oslo municipality to sell. They don't know how to do that, but you can put restrictions. What the citizens of Oslo have agreed through elections, namely the partial sale of a large energy portfolio in the open market at the best possible price, is trying to make the Stortinget transform. What kind of respect is this for local democracy and for the inhabitants of Oslo? In fact, Oslo Municipality has quite good experience from sales to foreign actors. For example, what is now part of Hafslund, the sales company Oslo Energia, a few years ago was sold to Vattenfall for approximately NOK 1.2 billion, and then bought back to Hafslund for well over 600 million. kr, i.e. half – a good deal, you ask me. So there are some people who think that Oslo Municipality should stop doing this. However, I had not believed that the leader of the Oslo Workers' Party, who is the proposer, was one of them. I had thought that the best possible management and return of the municipality's assets for the benefit of the city's inhabitants was also Oslo Arbeiderparti. So you can take it wrong. But I wonder why.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1128	I kind of want to be clear on SV's view of ownership, because we had a debate in the previous case about, among other things. sales of SND Invest. When SV says that it is OK to sell SND Invest, it is because it has no strategic importance to sit as the owner of the Tzenfryd, a cruise company or Steen & Stroem. It does not have a strategic importance to be a minority shareholder in such companies, and therefore it does not matter to a national policy whether the State owns it or not. On the force side, however, it beats the other way. Here it is of crucial strategic importance that we have full control of the resources. Therefore, we are not at all willing to celebrate the requirement that this company should be 100 pst. public ownership, either by the State or preferably also by municipalities/communities. However, when we are willing to give State power 10 billion dollars, it is because they should have the opportunity to buy up when municipalities – like the Municipality of Oslo, but also other municipalities – seem to have to sell, or sell because they have a policy of selling. The state must then exercise ownership in a way that allows the company to take care of the natural resources that we are to manage for the benefit of its citizens in the future and that have always been well managed by this collapse.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1137	Sylvia Brustad expressed surprise that the Minister of Industry called the proceedings ‘usery’ and pointed out that this was a long-standing process. It has not been going on for very long, because it started on 1 May, when Jens Stoltenberg stood in Sarpefossen with water to his knees and found out that we now had to go in with state funds and buy Hafslund so that the electricity price would be lower. That was the argument in the main message from Stoltenberg. I understand that there's a connection to the power price, where you take it for granted that only we get a different type of ownership, and only Statkraft or the state comes in by other means, the power price goes down. It's throwing blues in people's eyes. What may happen, and which many have pointed out during this debate, is the opposite, namely that the price can be increased by restricting the competitive market. I'm not going to say that it will happen, but the possibility that it will happen is present. I'm not going to go so much into reality in the matter itself, but I'm going to join in to what most of the government parties, including the Minister of Industry, have said. But as the head of a committee that has been in contact with this matter, I feel the need to underline exactly what Ansgar Gabrielsen said. My committee, which was to comment on this, had a few hours to decide on a document with significant structural changes, with an expansion of the capital in Statkraft by 10 billion kroner, which is not little money, but across a lot of money, even if it is below the line. And whether it is below or above the line and the budgetary balance in this debate is not crucial here in itself. What is crucial is the impact of this, the consequences of this in relation to competition law, in relation to the Energy Act, to which the Workers' Party also joined, and whether we have conflict material in relation to the EEA Agreement, etc. All of this we wanted to treat in a serious and proper way, which this kind of thing deserves. It chooses the majority in this matter to ignore altogether, and from that I have a great understanding that the Council of State Ansgar Gabrielsen expresses that this is an unprofessional way of dealing with the matter, Finally, I would like to be allowed to say: I hope this is not the majority's way of dealing with these kinds of things. I note with some satisfaction that Inge Ryan in his introductory lecture despite the fact that SV supports the proposals that lie here, acknowledges that this is a type of procedure that should never have taken place, and calls for a more comprehensive and thorough review of such serious and major issues. It's a confession that I'm going to sign, and I hope this isn't a model for how the same majority has intended to deal with this kind of thing in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1148	At the bottom of this debate, I would like to comment on some of our proposals, which are both primary, subsidiary and tertiary. We want primarily to convert Statkraft into a limited liability company, and we want a partial privatisation with an element of 30 pst. private eggs. Then we would achieve several things. We would gain a broader competence in the government of Statkraft, and Statkraft would be given considerable capital from the private owners, which would improve the freedom of action. At the same time, the State would have full management and control of the company and could ensure its head office competence departments and development departments in Norway. That's our primary view. Then we have our secondary proposal to transform this into a state-owned company. By the way, this is in line with the strategy that State power itself wants. But when we don't get a majority for this, what are we going to do within the state enterprise model? Should we leave this company paralyzed and unable to develop? No, then the Progress Party must have a pragmatic attitude, add these 10 billion kroner, so that the company gets the opportunity to grow. We have our own proposal to do this now on the 2003 state budget, i.e. immediately – a much better proposal than what we are going to subscribe to subsidiaryly, which means getting back to that in the 2004 state budget. That means you can get a rematch, that the government wants to take a rematch. It means uncertainty for State power for six months. And when we see the violent and rapid development of the international power market, with mergers, etc., it can mean that great opportunities go by State power. It does not want the Progress Party. We will give clear signals today that 10 billion kroner will be allocated to the company in a capitalisation. And then I want to clear some misunderstandings about proposal no. 1st@item: inlistbox It does not support the Progress Party. It is only a matter of assessment, as the Workers' Party, SV and the Zenterpartie stand behind with regard to the acquisition of Oslo municipality's shares in Hafslund. We know what the conclusion of such an assessment will be when Ansgar Gabrielsen does it. We do not want to give a directive to a board and go across the business strategy of the Swedish Government, which is to stabilise on the owner's side or, if necessary, to go down in Norway, but to buy out so that the company and Norway get the position internationally that Norway deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1163	We are at least told today that the only predictable thing in Norwegian policy is currently the systematic unforeseeableness of the Progress Party! It is also illustrated in this almost unreal debate by the fact that the representative Sylvia Brustad allows himself to ask complicated questions to the Minister for Trade and Industry. I think there is every reason to ask some counter-question: what kind of standard of procedure should this represent for the future, that one through a Document No. 8 proposals will move amounts that are 12 times larger than what the TV cameras have been following Siv Jensen and the company for over two months in order to snort in place revised national budget? What kind of critical questions is it possible to ask a government council when we have been shown today that the premises for the entire sovereign power application have gradually changed from the date of application 18 December to today? What kind of standard is it that the Workers' Party, together with those who are likely to be the majority today, wants to set when the only reference you have today, is that State power outside its core area of activity should invest a couple of tens of billions abroad in an area that is not their primary activity? In addition, today's Evening Post has as a reference and only credible basis for proceedings! This sets a standard that I hope the bulk of the population navigates away from, so that they use more sense when we come to the vote a little later this evening. And if the Labour Party is serious about this, it ought to be voting in favour of the motion for a resolution by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials One cannot seriously believe that these 10 billion dollars as proposed here are not part of the State budget! There are ten Norwegian billion of the community's property at risk in the rest of the world, under the vignette, that we should prevent foreigners from investing in Norway! It seems that the Labour Party, and Jens Stoltenberg, the head of the Workers' Party, sees this as a way to go, that a standard for political proceedings is set through Document No. Eight proposals, where does the majority refer to the proceedings through today's morning edition of the Evening Post? If this is a standard to be set for future political proceedings, it will be interesting to see how the parliamentary system in Norway will be allowed to develop.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1177	Let me start, for sure, by stating – once again – that it might seem that the Central Party and the government parties have a different motivation to say no to the proposal that is on the table today. The centre party wants strong public ownership in Norwegian power supply. We see a greater State power as a better alternative than these power plants being sold abroad. But it was Inge Ryan who made me take the floor again. When Inge Ryan says that SV wants to participate in this capital injection in order to secure national ownership in Hafslund, I cannot help but ask Inge Ryan about what it is in the decision that is being taken today, which makes Inge Ryan believe that Statkraft will come to buy Hafslund. The Chairman of State Power says, and of course we have to take him in the greatest seriousness, to the Evening Post today that this is ‘a hypothetical situation. We are required to sell significant assets that have a significantly higher value than Hafslund. It hasn't been natural for us to look at this. If we are to do so, there must be a recommendation from the owner where we will assess this on a purely commercial basis.» The decision taken today does not impose any commitments on what State power is going to spend this money. The company's equity is strengthened by DKK 10 billion, and Statkraft is to be operated on a commercial basis. So you can get in the situation that State power chooses to spend $10 billion in state equity – given overnight – to buy up in German or Danish coal power, Swedish nuclear power or whatever it might be. Is there a line on which SV seems to be able to defend itself, without in any way binding it up to ensure national ownership of domestic power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1191	I understand that the government parties do not like the decision they are going to be imposed tonight. I now understand that the attack point earlier was that there was going to be higher power prices. Of course, it's just nonsense. Now the point of attack is whether this is the standard procedure. I would like to say to the representative Rahm that there is someone who has turned the reel around in this matter, it is the most Christian People's Party. I want to quote from Innst. S. No 200 for 2000-2001, where the majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party underlined the objective of Statkraft. This majority was of the opinion: ‘By adding State capital, substantial public ownership of Norwegian hydropower is facilitated in a situation where municipalities and county municipalities sell themselves out.’ The majority believed that this had been a well-functioning instrument that was still to be used, and further pointed to the 2000 budget. That was the Christian People's Party in the year 2000 – NOK 6 billion. So now, three years later, it's completely unreasonable that the Workers' Party has a majority to go in with an equity of $4 billion more. Give it to the one who can! When it comes to dealing with this matter, it is not right, as the representative Rahm said here, that it has been within the Energy and Environment Committee only at full speed. It seems that there is no other committee that has dealt with this matter. It has been examined by the Economic and Social Committee. The Committee on Energy and the Environment then consulted it. We could have had a discussion about whether it should have been in the Energy and Environment Committee. But it has been discussed in the Business Committee, and so it has been a proper consideration of the matter. Then I want to say to the representative of Kristiansen, because he now said the opposite of what the Minister of Industry said: these 10 billion kroner have nothing to do with the budget balance. This is not money that competes with kindergartens, hospitals or other things. That is why I think he should stop giving the impression that it is. This is a redeployment of the state's wealth and so-called under the line-money. Finally, I would like to say that I have not understood the director of State Power in such a way that he would in any case say no to possibly consider a purchase of Hafslund. What the chairman said in the evening post today, as I read it, was that with the instructions they have per. today to sell out of other energy companies, and the capital they have is not a particularly topical issue. But now the Storting has decided to amend the Competition Act. Now it's like the majority of the Biggest this evening is going to give $10 billion to equity. Then the situation will be different. Then I don't ignore the fact that the director might both look at that matter, if it were to be relevant, and other matters in a different way. I expect the government to follow up the decisions that are taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1211	I took the floor to answer the question that the representative Odd Roger Enoxsen asked. It is correct that the SV requested the following decision: ‘The Government is asked, in the context of the 2004 State Budget, to provide State Power with 10 billion. krones in new equity while considering extending the sovereign debt and guarantee framework so that the company can possibly purchase the network and power portfolio of Hafslund ASA.» That was the proposal we mainly promoted in the Business Committee. We could have thought of getting through this room. But then you've gone a few rounds to try to compromise. The proposal has not gone further in the rounds through the Energy Committee and beyond. But I fully agree with Mr Enoksen's representative. I can imagine that we had had more opportunity to give clearer and clearer signals to the Minister of Industry, who could have given the signals to Statkraft. Now I hope the Minister of Industry has had his ears up while the debate is going on, so he has noticed what a number of representatives want. We want national control of hydropower resources, and that he also takes it into account in the dialogue with Statkraft in the future, when Hafslund is to be sold, and when other Norwegian companies, if any, come to sell.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1225	It's the second time today that a West-Agder representative gets in trouble on the stairs. It should not be a habit!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1232	I hope you did better than him.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1235	That's what we're going to hope for. It is with great interest and with great wonder I have listened to the debate tonight. Of course, when it is said that the Christian People's Party has turned around, it is wrong. The Christian People's Party still believes that we should have a large public ownership in the power sector. The power and energy sectors are one of our most important sectors. We want national ownership. We want a resource management right that's responsible. But when one compares this with the case of the previous capital increase, it becomes completely meaningless. Then we had a matter from the government. The size spent a lot of time on her. If you read the case again, you can see that we had clear statements when it came to competition law, then we promised NOK 6 billion, and she would be up to date. We're not abolishing competition laws. We actually said that she was going to lie down, when we gave up these money. I would like to ask the representative Brustad and the Labour Party: When was 10 billion dollars previously allowed over the table in this room? When was that type of procedure established? I can't really remember anything that's close to what's been done here. Then the representative says Brustad that we have had a good opportunity! I have been informed that the business committee had rejected the case because they did not have time to deal with several issues. Among other things, the concession law was ready for treatment. So take one after this, with an amount of $10 billion! If there is a responsible procedure, at least I need to re-train, and I hope that the re-training can't work, in order to count it as that. We saw a debate between the party leaders yesterday. Kristin Halvorsen had an interesting post. She said that in major matters, as the Storting is now composed, one actually has to deal with roofs and make a big deal in major matters. Norway has no sector and no issues that are bigger and more important than the energy sector, where we have quite special natural resources and historical premises. Then it should be right here that we took the time to make big national compromises. When the Labour Party presented Statoil-saka, it was actually such that a large number of people were willing to go in for a thorough trial and create a wide variety of numbers where everyone gave and took. There is also a need in such cases as this when it concerns State power. I'm positive with Statkraft. It is also the Christian People's Party. But it doesn't seem to Statkraft that one creates the contradictions that one does in this case here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1252	I did not address the facts of the case to any particular extent, but on the contrary, the proceedings. It really means that I didn't say anything about what the Christian People's Party might support if this had been subject to proper proceedings. I clarify what Jon Lilletun also had in mind, namely that the Christian People's Party has always been and is still engaged in having strong ownership companies in the power sector in Norwegian hands. This includes, inter alia: a strong State force. We've been doing that all along. We have not changed the price compared to the last time we granted NOK 6 billion in capital injections and a loan guarantee extension of NOK 10 billion. Many of us sitting in the hall were in that process. What the Christian People's Party also made clear at the time was that we saw the need to take into account the competitive situation in order to avoid a monopoly situation for State power, and we made it very clear that it was not given that State power would be granted a new capital injection on a new enquiry without delay. It was also clarified by the Christian People's Party last time. When it comes to dealing with such a large and comprehensive case, it is my concern. I feel the responsibility of the head of a committee to deal with these matters. This is a thin ink, and it is the result of the discussion in two committees. It was on the Food Committee for fourteen days. It was on our table a few hours before we were going to give it up, and the setting is marked by the fact that the same parties that are behind it have not even managed to coordinate their views. There is a complete procedural procedure, and it must be allowed to point this out from the pulpit of the Storting. We have done so with a strong desire for the same parties in the future to behave in such a way as to show a little greater respect for the fact that the Stortinge can have the necessary decision-making basis in such big and important matters as this is, after all.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1261	Today, with a loud voice, it is announced that Statkraft must be given clear notice. But what message is the State Power getting, except that they're equipped with a check of $10 billion? While the Workers' Party and SV say that this money should be used to prevent foreigners from buying up in Norway, the Progress Party says that this check should be used so that a Norwegian company will buy up abroad. There was a clear message from the Stortinget. We hear from the representative Øystein Hedstrøm that Statkraft must have the opportunity to build up as a company. That's why they're going to have 10 billion kroner. But the day that Olav Fjell comes and knocks on Øystein Hedstrom's door and he also asks for 10 billion dollars because Statoil is going to buy up in Venezuela, in the Middle East or in Africa, Hedstrom is going to say yes to him too, if he says they need 10 billion dollars to strengthen Statoil as a company so that they can grow abroad? It is quite amazing to experience how a party can turn so smoothly, not just between the business committee and the energy committee. But what we're experiencing with the Progress Party is that two years ago the party argued in principle, for the sake of consumers, it was unfortunate that one company was given the opportunity to grow as big and strong as State power had ambition. Today we do not hear a word about consumers from the Progress Party. Now the argument is that Statkraft must get 10 billion kroner for the company. Where has the consumer's voice become in this debate? It's also quite strange to hear Sylvia Brustad saying that in a way to apologize for spending 10 billion kroner of taxpayers' money on Statkraft, says this is under the line of money. But because the money is so-called under the heading, it does not deprive us of both the right to and the requirement that we should assess whether it is the proper use of taxpayers' money to allow State power with the opportunity to buy up abroad, as the Progress Party will, or in Norway, as the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party will. There must be the same requirements for assessing the use of this money if they are above the line or if they are below the line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1274	I have understood that the subsidiary vote of the Progress Party implies that there will be a majority for not as Sylvia Brustad said, that we grant tonight, but that we oblige the Government to propose in St.prp. No 1 Appropriations. That's a not insignificant difference, I think. That means that we are given ample opportunity to continue this debate until the autumn, probably. However, I think it is worth noting – it has been about consumers and not consumers – that there is an overall industry in Norway that thinks this is a very bad idea. I don't think that's because they want State power or some of their employees, not to say the owner, something bad. It has nothing to do with it. What they were obviously concerned about, and the analysis of the PIL, as they expressed in the Storting hearing, was that they were afraid that it would restrict competition, and that it would be a disadvantage in negotiations on future industrial contracts which, after the Storting lifted the particularly large prices, would be made in an open market. The representative Hedstrøm said that the Progress Party was a pragmatic party. I don't know if it was a description or an understatement, but at least I share that point of view. There have also been clear signals from Øystein Hedstrøm that he does not want the Council of State to instruct Statkraft to make investments in Norwegian power stations that are not considered commercially interesting by Statkraft itself. As far as I understand Statkraft, that is the situation. Now it's not like there's a need for instructions from State Power, at least in this case. The outcome of the harvest could lead to such a situation, but it is not uninteresting for the debate, which will probably go forward, whether SV and the Workers' Party, in the event that State power does not want to buy Hafslund and they receive equity, wants State power to be instructed to purchase Hafslund anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1285	Øystein Hedstrom has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1288	As I see it, and after that proposal from three opposition parties that are being adopted this evening, there should be clearer signals from these parties that, in the context of the State budget for the autumn, this decision is being followed up, so that State power can follow its strategy and plan from it. It's the most important thing. Otherwise, the government has not responded to the letter of 18 December, nor in a year after we dealt with the ownership message, came back to Stortinget with a plan of progress on a different construction for Statkraft, i.e. a state-owned company. This means that State power is actually pig-bound. In addition, when we have a competition director talking about splitting up State Power into several smaller units, I find that Norway is going against the current. We're doing the opposite of all other Western energy nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1296	In the spring we have had a special situation in Stortinget, in the sense that the government in a wide range of areas has not followed up clear decisions from Stortinget. This applies, inter alia, to: pensions. This applies to housing grants for those with high electricity bills, and to actions towards our maritime industry. This has led to unnecessary uncertainty. It has also caused the government to be defeated twice, only when the decision is taken, and so when the government asks for a rematch and loses it too. I believe that it is not a lucky deal from the Government when you ignore decisions of the Storting, ask for rematch, lose it and then accept the defeats. If you do not accept the decision of the Storting, you have to say when the decisions are taken and not be voted down twice in a row on the same matter. I am pleased that the Progress Party has changed its position, that they no longer require the Stortinget to take a decision on the stock exchange listing of Statkraft to go in to add NOK 10 billion to the company. This means that there is a majority in favour of the strengthening of State power in order to be the heavy player in the Norwegian, Nordic and Northern European power market that Statekraft should be, in line with other companies in the North European power market. There is a clear majority for this, with exactly the same reasons and exactly the same assessments as when a clear majority, right against the Right's votes, added State power $6 billion a year ago. It is the same kind of assessment that is now underpinning, namely the desire for a strong national anchoring in the industry we have linked to power and our hydropower resources. There is a clear majority, and I assume that the Government understands that it must follow the decision of the Storting and not repeat the error of the retirement stop, the housing support of electricity victims and other rematches it has lost earlier this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1303	I believe that at the end of this debate there is a need for the Council of State to make it clear that he intends to follow the decision of the Stortinge tonight. It is because representatives of the government parties and the state council themselves have suggested the understanding of this decision that it was a pleasant flight idea The Stortinget came up with a late June night, and not a decision that was actually taken. The signals that go to Statkraft, that go to the market, that go to all environments after the Storkting has finished dealing with this today, are that Statkraft is added to NOK 10 billion. It is now the Council of State tells Stortinget that he intends to comply with this decision. If the Council of State has a different view of this, it is very alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1308	I record that the representatives Stoltenberg and Halvorsen did not answer the question I asked to the two parties, whether they share the same view on the instruction of Statkraft and what the money should be used for, whether they should be used to expose themselves, for example, in Germany, on the purchase of a distribution company there for different energy carriers, or whether they should be used here. That means that at least in that area I interpret it so that it's a freedom of action, if they don't answer. With regard to whether the Council of State intends to take action after the majority of the population, none of the two parliamentary leaders need fear that this interlocutory conference will be held this late June evening. Of course, the government intends to follow up the decisions taken by the Stortinget. In this area, I would say that given that the premises are as they are now, I find it difficult to see that other things should be proposed. Now some things change during the journey. Should there be other situations, for example: as mentioned in the Ownership Notice, to which the Storting agreed, namely that industrial solutions may impose other conditions, it might appear in a different light. It will then have to be assessed by Stortinget against this decision. And it wouldn't surprise me, to the extent that such things would arise, if what is also today's bulky, might have a different view. But given that all premises are exactly like today, it will appear as most natural that this is also done, and that it falls down in St.prp. No 1, definitely. Now I see that I have another minute left. I could read from the mouth of Kristin Halvorsen what she said, «most natural». We tend to suggest to the Government what is most natural.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1317	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3441]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1335	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3443]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1353	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3443]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1369	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Left and the Coastal Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1378	It's a comprehensive proposition that we now have to deal with. In this proposition, the Ministry of Transport has presented a number of issues under several programme categories, and there is no time to address each case as thoroughly, although each case is important enough in itself. In the context of such an extensive proposition, with so many issues of different character, it is natural that there are different majority and minorities. However, as the rapporteur, I am pleased that a broad majority of the Committee is united on most of the comments. Of the matters in the proposition, there is enough E6 Nordre relief road in Trondheim that has given the most attention. The matter has been politically hot for many years. Like so many other places, there is the question of tolls that divide the local population. The local authorities have promised that the tolling stations in Trondheim will be closed during 2005, but this was not possible with the Government’s proposal to leave option 4 at the root of the further work on the Trondheim package. Because option 4 provided an unmet investment need of a total of 337 million. kr, had to be extended. Therefore, the municipality of Trondheim believes that the only acceptable thing for them is that the Storting chooses to leave a cheaper proposal, option 3.2.A, at the root of the further planning work, although this option may prove to be a less forward-looking option. The Committee has chosen to take account of local needs and has chosen to propose options 3.2.A as the basis for further planning. This is in line with the response received by the Ministry of Transport on 6 June. However, there is reason to stress that, for option 3.2.A, there is also an unmet investment need, of about Thirty million. kr, and local authorities must accept the inclusion for this residual funding itself. Now that the Storting chooses, at the discretion of local authorities, alternative 3.2.A, which is cheaper, it must be clear that if at a later stage there would be a demand for improvements to the standard on the road or for changes to the project, this must be fully covered locally and not by additional State resources. Having said this, I now think it is gratifying that the E6 Nordre relief route is being built, and that the centre city and the centre of Trondheim can be relieved of transit traffic. In this sense, the North Sea route can be an important environmental measure for many of Trondheim’s inhabitants. Another welcome matter in the proposal is the proposal for partial toll financing of projects and actions at Rv 45 in Gjesdal municipality in Rogaland. The project includes improvements to curves, extension of road width along existing roads and conversion of parts of the road into tunnels. Seven sub-projects provide for the correction of a number of bottlenecks, thereby significantly improving road performance. The road will be easier and safer to use, and the project will be of great benefit to businesses, local traffic and leisure activities. I am pleased that a joint committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, supports the Government's proposal for Rv 45 in Gjesdal and is thus helping to raise this area in a good way. The Government briefs in the Proposition on plant start for the extension of the motorway bridge to E18 over Drammenselva. It is a pleasure that this work is now under way. The traffic conditions on the E18 at Drammen require a solution as soon as possible. However, a large majority of the Committee has pointed out that the emergence problems of the E18 at Drammen are not fully resolved by the construction of a new bridge; it is also necessary to build a new Kleivene tunnel. The government has agreed to this and has carried out the planning work on a new Kleivene tunnel. It is surprising, however, that a minority in the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, want to adopt the construction of a new Kleivene tunnel here and now, without giving money and without proper planning of the project. This is in stark contrast to what the same parties recently stated in the Stortingen Control Committee, where a unanimous committee underlined the importance of better quality assurance of major road projects, including: to avoid excessive exceedances. Furthermore, if the Labour Party and the Advance Party had obtained a majority, the consequence could be that other road projects on the same strain virus could be stopped or delayed. The Government's proposal that savings in operating, maintenance and capital costs related to ferry services may be used as part-financing of road projects making ferry redundant is very useful and positive. It is gratifying that the Committee is in agreement on this point. It gives this type of project greater weight and stability in the future as well. This approach may lead to many more coastal communities being connected to the mainland in the time to come. It is important to put in place a system of clear principles before launching the projects in question on the basis of these principles. It has been a special challenge to determine the size of the cost of capital saved. The Ministry of Transport has assessed different models and the Committee agrees that contributions from saved capital costs in the financing plan for ferry relief projects are based on average capital costs across the ferry fleet. This will cost about 3.5 million saved capital. kr per. years, or EUR 52.5 million in 2003 to more than 15 years only for the costs of capital savings. In addition, any net savings from operation and maintenance that may vary from nothing to 9,5 million are added. kr per. years. The Government also explains in the light of the request decision No. 390 of 13 June 2000 for different measures relating to driving under the influence of drugs other than alcohol. The Ministry has, among other things: assessed whether it is appropriate in the Road Traffic Act to establish a zero limit for drugs other than alcohol, together with other measures that can be put in place to detect and reduce such use of drugs in traffic. We are witnessing a very worrying development in drug driving. Over the past 10 years, the number of drivers who have been drug-induced other than alcohol has doubled. These drivers pose a high risk to themselves and to their fellow passengers. In view of the scale and importance of the case, the Government is asking for a separate case to be brought back to the Grand Duchy of Great Britain for action against drug use. It is important that we have an opportunity to have a proper debate on this and take a firm stand against this growing problem. When I have commented on the most important matters in St.prp. No 67, I also think it is natural to consider a number of matters that are both enjoyable and beneficial for many people in a number of states, with a high employment effect. In addition to the road projects I have already mentioned, it is very nice to start building the important Eiksund link, which will provide over 20,000 people in four municipalities in mainland. Furthermore, there is reason to note that the work on the mainland connection to Lofoten, the so-called Lofast, is going on this summer. As a representative of Østfold, I think it is particularly gratifying that the start of the construction of the route E18 Sekelsten–Krosby in Østfold is being accelerated, and that the government is going in to build a new E18 as a four-field road on the route Momarken–Akershus border. At the same time, I am very pleased that work is now under way on planning and financing the deployment of the E18 Mossevei in the tunnel. This is joyous things for the home state. I recommend the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1423	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1426	I agree with the representative Holten that it is very positive that the Stortinget now gives a clear signal that a narrow four-field road should be built on the Momarken–Akershu border, instead of the two-field road. With the strong growth of traffic, this is necessary and forward-looking. It is now also important to get the couple started through Ashim, and even if the Storting does not grant money, but gives permission for a toll company to raise a loan, it is good. In the context of the budget for this year, last autumn, the Workers' Party proposed that the Toll Company should be able to borrow on the whole route through Askim. My question to the representative Holten is: why is it not now that debt financing is allowed throughout the route, so that you know what you have to deal with and don't have to come back to this already in the autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1431	Yes, I can say that I fully agree with the representative Signe Eye that it is gratifying that we have now got these matters out. It also applies to E18. It is a central part of Phase 1 Easternfold package, which consists of these two roads. These are important projects. And we've gone into the so-called hard work and split-order fifty-five over 15 years. So the question was, why can't we already grant permission for debt financing? To that it is to say that we have a board in this bombing company that now, in the light of the costs that have been incurred due to improvement to the four-field road on this route, as I mentioned in my post, is given the opportunity to return to Stortinget. They get to do this on the basis that we also know that there is an increased traffic, and so they have a better income base in the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1438	This book has many common moves. It is on the development of roads in Trondheim, in Rogaland/Vest-Agder, the expansion of E18 in Eastfold and E18 in Drammen. What's special is that there are more and more toll projects. It is interesting to note that Holten points out that it is a pleasure to stand up here and once again send the bill to the inhabitants of Østfold in case of a new construction, instead of having to pay for these costs when you buy petrol and buy a car. So Holten says there's no funding in the proposal. The wood even goes so far that he accuses the Workers' Party of proposing this. The working party usually uses not to propose appropriations, but notes with good wishes. So this is what they're doing right over here. We therefore propose that: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit as soon as possible a financing plan for the construction of a new four-field tunnel for E 18 west of Drammen’. Why doesn't Holten want to be in on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1452	It is clear that there is a significant difference between the Progress Party and the other parties in the Committee on Transport and the Storting on how to address key and important road-related communication challenges. The other batches have realized that it is necessary, if one is to have an acceleration of important road projects, to go to so-called hard work and splinter, which the Progress Party then does not want to participate in. I just have to say that I am very pleased that at least in my county and in very many other counties we experience that the excavators are getting started and making significant progress. If we had gone according to the Progress Party model, at least we wouldn't have seen many machines operating in our area, in Eastfold. I think the people want it. All toll companies established are established in consultation with the State and municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1459	There is a unanimous remark in this case in which the Committee asks for the 2004 State Budget to be clarified on the content of the purchase agreement between the NSB and the Ministry of Transport. Then there is a pass in the note that ‘The size should not be included in the detailed management of the purchase agreement’. Now the board of directors of the NSB has decided that they will shut down the night trains if they don't get an increase in the frame until next year. Does the representative, Odd Holten, agree that there is a type of issue that is not included in the detailed management category, but that it is natural for the Council of State to present it in the budget for next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1466	To the representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen, I have to say that we have our own government in the NSB, and they have got their directives to govern after. We buy services, and they have got their framework, and I have to say that I fully agree with the addition that is in the note. I don't want it to be that way that we're going to go into detailing the different types of services that the NSB is going to provide at any time. If, on the other hand, a majority of the Storting goes in and wants different types of services to be maintained, it has to be done by purchasing these services. It's not about directing the board.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1474	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1477	We are currently dealing with an aggregate proposition of 13 different things, sometimes extensive issues. I want to talk about some of these, others from the Working Party will talk about others. But first I want to thank the case spokespersons Odd Holten for good work and a great deal of flexibility to come up with good solutions in the matter. We hope that we will ensure good cooperation in the future. The working party has some minority comments either alone or in combination with others, but we do not have alternative proposals for decisions. At the end of the Trondheim package. After the committee, Trondheim gets the solution they want, i.e. 3.2.A. That's the cheapest option, and that's a good alternative. This is now putting the government party, the Labour Party and the Center Party at the back. It's been a bit of a strange process. The government suggested choosing Option 4, which was initially 120 million. kr more expensive. The government's decree was that additional expenditure should be covered by extra tolls, which local government considers the worst option possible. This would include: led to the breaking of several lots' own wavelifts on orders from the Stortinget. For all closures, the government party now supports option 3.2.A. It has some special challenges in itself, but it will also lead to the railway area being congested, not divided by a new road as in option 4. I have been involved in obtaining multiple numbers for many things here in the house – as a representative of the government party and as an opposition politician – in whole or in part in line with different governments’ proposals, but sometimes also for other solutions, such as today. The new thing is that the government has given the Storting two answers, one about how bad an option 3.2.A is, and one about whether it can still be accepted. However, in the Labour Party we are pleased that the government party has turned around. That's good for Trondheim. It is also a decision that does not destroy the election struggle in Trondheim, and that shows respect for local democracy. I have to mention the matter of toll-financed development of Rv 45 in Gjesdal. This is an example of local government taking responsibility and finding solutions on a road with many bottlenecks. By repairing the road in seven places at a price of 114 million. kr will increase the availability of monthly. I and many others who use this road, so far. Norway has a coastline of approx. 84 000 km, almost as far as two times around the equator, I've been told. Along the coast there are islands and peninsulas as one must on the sea to reach. It may be nice for us to go there once in a while, but it's often a disadvantage for the firm and for the business world. Therefore, bridge or tunnel is often an alternative. Tonight, we set the finish line of a system that can make distribution resolution current for more than one system. I am pleased that the Committee has come to a fair and easy-to-use arrangement. From before, it has been clear that the projects can keep ferries subsidians for 15 years after the option has come into place. When it concerns reimbursement of capital costs, it is also granted over 15 years with a fixed amount of 3.5 million. kr per. years, for which the case-speaker did well. The Committee has made a couple of precision that makes the economy a little bit more favourable. The amount shall be adjusted by 2,5 pst. per 1 % years, the amount shall be reviewed and, where appropriate, adjusted every four years and the concrete agreed interest rate contained in any binding loan agreement may be taken into account in the financing plan instead of the country's calculation of 8 pst. So now they can start counting on Finn Island in Rogaland and many other places along the coast. Finally, I would like to say that in the Labour Party we are pleased that we will have a case of action against driving in Narcotic Drugs. The goal is clear: no rushing people should drive cars, and different drugs should be equated as much as possible. Unfortunately, we still don't have a drug meter like the newspaper mentioned here in the daytime, as far as I know. This, in addition to the question of finding technical aids that cover, and that the case raises many fundamental and practical questions, makes it absolutely necessary that we get this as a matter of our own.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1496	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1499	In the case of the motorway bridge over the Drammen, the right is very satisfied, and in the case of the tunnel in this case, we are very pleased that it is also being serviced. But here, the Workers' Party has gone very high on the track. They have almost gone out and said yes to this tunnel before they have granted the money. On 21 May, the representative Sigrun Eng told NRK Buskerud that if there were no extra funds, it could be thought that there would have to be re-priorities, and she mentioned the route between Oslo and Kristiansand. My question to the Workers' Party is, is it really that they go in and re-prioritize important projects along the south coast and in Westfold to get the bridge and tunnel in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1504	Yes, this one I had expected. But I have to say that when I listen to the line and look at the answer in the setting, I wonder if the representative Andersen and others have read what the Labour Party and the Progress Party say in this case. We mean that we can't build roads that way by having four fields that go into two fields, and then we get four more fields. We have to get rid of the bottlenecks, otherwise the investment will be completely meaningless. And we've said the following: ‘These members consider it desirable that this extension be completed at the same time as the completion of Dramensbrua’.» The Labour Party has said that we have argued that the Council of State will come back with an assessment of this in connection with the national transport plan. Then we also have to take the assessment. But I have recorded that the Council of State has been high on the ground in this matter as well, so to me it almost seems as if there is some inconvenience in the government itself. It seems that the Council of State wants the solution that the Labour Party wants, but for some reason the Right does not want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1514	In the case of toll projects, the Workers' Party is the most intense. Now it seems that no road can be too small, because now we are also going to have a toll project at Rv 45 in the municipality of Gjesdal. So there's annual traffic down in 700 cars. The collection costs will be at a staggering 17 million. kr, and they'll probably get bigger when it's been a while. Then I have a question for the Workers' Party: Is there any lower limit to annual traffic when the Workers' Party is going to have everything as a toll project?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1521	In this case, when it comes to toll financing, it is a local initiative in all the cases supported by the Labour Party. So it's the local government that takes the initiative to solve some problems, because they can't wait for the Progress Party to get these money on the state budget once in 100 years. I suggest that they solve the problems themselves – as in Gjesdal, who has politically created a piece of calculation that goes into a cluster – I don't think there should be any lower limit. But there's going to be a lower limit on each project, because if there's too few cars running there, the math won't jump.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1526	In Trondheim we have a road project that among us collective trailers are called the Nordre «load road». SV is known against building this path, but when the majority of death and life will span a half billion dollars on madness, there is at least reason to ask about the cause of the Workers' Party's trasé elections. The local councils from the Right and the Labour Party were in Oslo and spoke warmly about the trasé elections that lie in the majority's position, which is a much cheaper alternative than what the Council of State agreed to. With the proposals of the Council of State, we could get both a functional freight terminal and a functional terminal at the port without rail wagons crossing a main road. And you could also be able to co-locate the private freight terminals, like Customs, Nor-Cargo, Coca-Cola, in addition to the Post Office. The problem is that the government's solution requires that the tolling period in Trondheim be extended or the rates increased. And that, of course, fits poorly into the Labour Party's local electoral campaign strategy. But can the Workers' Party give us a single convincing argument, beyond that consideration, to choose this option?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1533	To overinterpret someone who has decided that there are no good arguments, I know I'm impossible. But I'm not in doubt. After being in Trondheim and looking at this, I'm not in doubt that this is the best option, and it's in line with the plurality of local meaning. I'm aware that SV, both there and here, is against it. I respect that. But a multiple goes in for this in Trondheim. That's the cheapest option. In fact, there are not only disadvantages for the freight terminal and for the railway area with this solution, rather than option 4. Option 4 would give you a new route through the railway area in Trondheim. That would be a worse option. A train takes place once a day over that road we are now well, but it seems to be conducted at a reasonable time. So we're in common with our people in Trondheim. We believe that there will be a good solution for Trondheim's population, without having to pay more than the local politicians themselves thought they should pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1540	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1543	Today, we are dealing with an aggregate proposition that contains several issues within our area of the Transport Committee. The rapporteur has taken an excellent view in the various cases. For my part, I want to get into some of the individual issues. One thing we've dealt with in the past is the Nordre relief road in Trondheim. This road will relieve the centre city and central residential areas of transit traffic. It also has good connections to the port, transport terminals and the central railway station at Brattóra. When Stortinget first dealt with this matter, it was proposed to move the freight terminal from Brattøra to Leangen. In St. prp. No 60 for 2001-2002 it was informed that the Railway Agency, in cooperation with CargoNet AS, did not need this move. There had to be another investigation, and two alternatives were presented. Trondheim City Board and South-Trundellag County went in for the cheapest option. No one wanted to extend the toll collection, which was promised for the end of 2005. Everyone realizes that the second option is better, but the selected option is absolutely acceptable. For us, it has been important to listen to the majority in the local environment, so we support option 3.2.A and wish Trondheim municipality good luck with the project. Gäsdal municipality in Rogaland wants a toll-funded project at Rv 45. This involves new roads and other improvements. The project itself has a cost framework of 114 million. SEK – 23 million. DKK in State resources and SEK 91 million. kr in tolls. Local authorities have agreed to the project. What has been proposed here is of great regional importance. It is an important transport year for, among other things, tourist and leisure traffic between Ålgård and the municipality of Sirdal in West Agder. When the way over Suleskard is open, Rv 45 is important for the traffic between the Jærregion and Seatsdal/inner parts Telemark. This route is also used as an internal link between Rogaland and the Oslo area. Curves, extension of road width and conversion of parts of the tunnel road shall be corrected. This improvement will make it easier to take advantage of the road for business and local and leisure traffic. The problems of prosperity around the Drama are known. I think we've all experienced queueing through the Drammen. Now the work on a new motorway has started, and this is important to solve the problems of accessibility on this route. But in order to solve the problems of the E18 through the Drammen, a new Kleivene tunnel must also be built. In the case of the Kleivene tunnel, the level work has been completed and with maximum propulsion it is possible to start construction in the last half of 2005. Right wants the entire stretch from Loenga in Oslo to Tønsberg in Vestfold to get the full four-field standard. We want to come back to the time of realization in the context of the treatment of the national transport plan. We cannot say, as the Labour Party says, that the extension of the tunnel should be completed at the same time as Drammensbrua. We can't because we want a thorough quality assurance of the project, so we know that the total costs are in place before construction starts. I agree that the Kleivene project is important, and we will have a high priority in the Right. But we cannot, like the Workers' Party, give a clear signal to the start of construction without giving money. This could result in funds for other projects on the same strain virus being deprioritised, and then my concern is the important road sections we have through both Agder counties. It can't be accepted by us in the Right. Alternative use of ferry subsidies is a matter that engages many island communities. The problem has been how to calculate this, so that important calculation principles are established. I would like to commend the Council of State for the result that is being achieved here. Here are clear principles of how this is to be calculated. The Committee has made a few improvements in the matter. Everyone agrees that the cost of capital is 3.5 million. kr per. years for 15 years shall be adjusted annually by 2,5 pst. to keep the value of the heads roughly constant. We also agree that one should not be bound up to the country's calculation rate when calculating how much loans these annual grants can make. This will also make it easier to sew together a funding package. That's important, because low interest rates make it possible to raise and earn larger loans. This will allow the residents of Hidra to have a land-based connection. That's something that's been going on for years. Hidra is a living community that wants to further develop the positive environment they have on the island. In order to achieve this, mainland connectivity is important. The inhabitants want to decide for themselves when they will come and go, and not depend on the ferry. Hidra is one of many island communities that will have this great opportunity now. In the end, I want to take on board a case that is increasingly a problem in our society. It concerns driving under the influence of drugs other than alcohol in road traffic. We are experiencing an increasing number of drivers in traffic who are on drugs other than alcohol. In fact, there has been a doubling of registered drivers in the last ten years. This is a major traffic risk that increasingly endangers the lives of drivers and their co-traffic passengers. There are particularly major challenges related to the detection of drivers affected by drugs and other substances that seriously impair driving ability. This matter is of great importance and scope, so we ask the Government to come back to the Grand Duchy with a separate case on action to combat drug use.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1572	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1575	Falses will no longer be true if they are repeated multiple times. The working party writes in the setting that it is desirable that the construction of a new Kleivene tunnel be parallel to a new motorway bridge, and asks the Government to come back with a case to this effect in connection with the rolling of the national transport plan. Right refers to the statement from the Control Committee and writes in response: ‘... it is alarming that part of the same batches that then underlined this will now go in to start building a project for which only planning has started. These members distance themselves from such a procedure and would point out that such a lightness could involve significant additional costs, which would, in turn, affect other transport projects.» Does the representative see the nuances, and does the representative not think that road users to Sørlanden will also benefit from removing the Kleivene tunnel bottleneck? Is Right willing to re-prioritize money, if necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1589	First, I want to say that what the Labour Party is proposing, that they want these two projects completed at the same time, is quite unrealistic. But when you know that the planning of the tunnel itself is done at the end of 2005, and we know that the motorway bridge is finished at the beginning of 2006, then there is something that tells me that this is not going to happen. It's more like pulling out something that can create expectations among the inhabitants of Buskerud. I'm so honest to say that this is what we're going to get into a plan, and we're going to make sure that. But I won't let it go at the expense of other projects, because they're also important. So that means that we're putting everything in place to get the tunnel in place at national transport level, and we're based on planning. That also means that it's important with the priority we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1594	It could have been nice to take a new round of the Kleivene tunnel with the Right, because that's the heartway of the Right Representative. But I'm going to take another thing. The representative is also engaged in building E18 on Mossevej in a tunnel. And there's also a desire that this be done right away. But at the same time she has said that she also wants new double tracks on the railway. Which of these two things does she prioritize? I could also have taken – no, sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1603	There was probably one question from the representative Nistad, I understand, and it concerns Mossevejen. What we're concentrating on in this case is the Mosseweg in the tunnel, where we're saying we're going to have two fields in each direction and one of them is going to be collective fields. We also say in the National Transport Plan that we should have a double track. We will return to both that and the location of the Mosseweg in the tunnel in the coming national transport plan. That's where we set the time, and that's where we see everything in relation to each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1610	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1613	In the case of Innst. S. No 272, as we are dealing with today, I will take part of the proposals that the Progress Party has. They're on page 12, so that's what they're saying. First, we're going to make a suggestion, and that could be interesting for the especially right party, which has now run its round in the hall and had a lot of nice suggestions and word games here. They shall have the Kleivene tunnel, they shall have the railway downwards, and they shall have the Mosseweg tunnel. Then we'll see when the debate is over, if the Right has an interest in being involved and voting concretely on a lot of these implementation projects that are. So, according to the government's promise that the Right is part of, we've heard that they're going to increase their budgets, and they're going to stick to their national transport plan. We all know how this government has run on that line. The first proposal of the Progress Party is on a matter that we have raised in the past, so it is not very careful to take it up again in particular. But we stick to what we've said before, that this is a state responsibility, and we don't need any more bombs in Trondheim. We believe that there is more to it than enough of those who are there. As regards proposal No: 2, which goes to Gjesdal Municipality and Rv 45: There are seven small development projects here, with a total cost of 114 million. kr. Here you have to pop up another new toll project, and it is – as I had asked about earlier – an annual traffic on poor 700 cars. Then you can really sit down and ask, how low is the number going to be to avoid a bomb in this country? This is simply a new employment enterprise, and then I think it is a pity to spend money hiring people and getting them out of the unemployment line to sit in a bomb. Then you could have given something more money, so that it had become more tender. And maybe part of them that have to go from Mesta could be engaged in building a little bit more roads. Then we have the third proposal, on the tunnel for the Mosseweg. It's been a repetition for quite a number of years. It was actually inside something called Oslopackak 1. Now there's not sure there's so many that remember so far back. It should have been finished already today, it shouldn't have even been on the agenda here today. But as we know, it's gone, for a good part of the money that's been taken on the bombing around Oslo, has gone to completely different measures than building a road. They have been used for collective action, and yet the toll rates have been increased in Oslo. And they haven't been increased because you had to build a new Mosseweg tunnel or other roads, they've just gone into the sewer that's the public transport -- not even when private people came and said that we can build this, if we get permission. And then they put up a bomb. It is quite fair, also for the Progress Party. I just have to repeat that one more time: it's completely fair for us, as long as the old road that's been paid down is free. So that's possibility number. 2 to get this started. After all, there is an annual traffic on Mossewegen of 21 000-30 000 cars. Then we have another project that, in the opinion of the Advancement Party, should also have been completed a long time ago, which we also have proposals for today, and which Holten in the Christian People's Party has as a child of the heart and can like to be in and vote on. It's E18. And then I would like to remind you that only the damage, the cost of the accident, amounts to NOK 25 billion per year. years. So we're going to spend $11.5 billion on road development. It has been shown that the route on E6 that has been completed at the representative Holten, and we can also take along the route on E18, which is downwards towards Right Representative Andersen, where we have got the four-field highway, where we have spent little money, and where we have invested, and where we have actually got the 100 km speed limit, where accident statistics have gone right to the bottom – and fortunately for it. But to continue on these road projects here? No, you should plan and plan, you should never get to the goal at all. Similarly, in the case of the Kleivene tunnel in Drammen. There shall also be a right only to determine and plan and will not join the note of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party to complete it at the same time as the Drammensbrua. Here, the right-hand side had the opportunity to secure a majority. So they didn't choose to do it, or rather say: I get to wait until the vote is over before I say it, but I guess it's going to be no from the right there as well. I then take up all the suggestions that have been included on page 12 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1632	The representative of Thore A. Nistad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1637	Now it's time for the Progress Party to answer a little for its bills, because it's not the strange math they see, I can promise the representatives in this room. From 1 October to 1 June, they have proposed additional roadside measures of approximately 50 billion kroner, slightly after how you calculate them. So I'm going to ask you, where's the score? Cause, if it wasn't a parliamentary expression! The Progress Party has, is about. 2.6 billion more a year for national road investment. So it'll take 20 years for them to keep their promises. And if we look at political results, they're going to have 200 million. kr more to negotiate with the Government, so it will take 100 years. When is the Progress Party going to stop fooling people?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1642	It is good that the Workers' Party has moderated a little. The last time they were on me with this, I had submitted road maps for 100 billion, now it's down to 50. First of all, we haven't said that this is operational, or something like that. We have said that building new, good roads in Norway is clean, cutting investment. And we've said that instead of putting some of our oil billions on the books, we're going to invest in the road network – and I'm going to use the word to invest. We believe that having a good, modern road network on an equal footing with other countries is and will be an investment. We have to do something about the road network in this country for business. Then we think it's a lot better to spend these billions on road investments, instead of doing what the government is doing now, with the good support of the Workers' Party, putting the oil billions into all sorts of stock and shares out, and we all know that last year's loss was 123 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1649	I'd like to follow up on the same thread as the last replicator. It's a saying that before good food is to be played, it should tear. The progress party has an incredible appetite to swallow good transport proposals. But, in the name of justice, one must be allowed to ask the question whether the alternative draft budget of the Progress Party itself has not been broken. And the representative Thore Nistad did not want to answer that easily. So only in the case we're dealing with now, there are six proposals, which go partly on new projects, which are about to remove toll projects, and then we've heard before that we're going to have a four-field road from Oslo to Trondheim, even over Dovre. One place must be the frontier of the money box of the Progress Party. My question goes directly to the question: Is not the alternative draft budget of the Progress Party this year blown up a long time ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1657	I can comfort the representative Sahl that it is not blown up; we are making a new proposal tomorrow. So it's going to be one more. But in the case of the representative Sahl and his family, the stomach doesn't crack at all. Then it's Lofast, then it's 2 billion, then he pushes everything aside. In the case of the National Transport Plan, which we dealt with in the previous period, and which was also attended by the representative Sahl, the Progress Party brought forward an increase in excess of that of the Government, of 5.5 billion per year. years. In the course of a decade, there's 55 billion. In addition, we have said that we are willing to use a good part of the oil wealth to invest. And when it comes to investing in North Norway, Sahl follows us in all things, but in the case of the inner east, no, then it's like fy, fy. Then it's not very nice for him.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1666	I want to get into one of the same things that the two before me have brought up, namely, isn't there a bucket in the bucket of yours? It's Sarepta's jar, as I've said before. Please refer to the annual budgets, if you have coverage! I just mention something now: E6 in four fields to Trondheim, E18 from Eastfold to Kristiansand in four fields, Listapak, Dramensbrua, Kleivenetunnelen, Rv 4, environmental tunnels, Trondheimspakket, all individual projects in the same proposition, the Bergen programme. These are just some of the projects. Come and show it in the annual budgets!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1671	The word from the Right was ‘bent in the bucket’. It is clear that the bucket that the Right has, at least like a sieve. So they have an under-exploitation of over 2 billion so far, they had the Sem statement, which was an increase of 600 million. We haven't seen any of this. In addition, we have the costs of the traffic accidents, which are now up to a staggering 25 billion kroner. This is no one taking inwards at all. And it turns out that this we can reduce dramatically if we're willing to do it. So this is proven by the few large projects that have been carried out on E6 and on E18. Where we have built out two-field highways, and where we have increased speed to 100 km, the accident costs have gone down. We have also said that industry is struggling in Norway. They're lying on their knees to bring down the transportation costs to the continent. And then the Right – Right of All – comes and says no to further expansion in Norway. That's when the reasoning gets wrong from the Right side.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1678	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1681	There's nothing eye-catching in the Inst. S. No 272, and that's sad. It is up to our generation to do a task far greater than the debates in the Committee on Transport and the debates in this Chamber point out. It's up to us to create a transport that doesn't pollute, and that makes the generations that come after us also have the opportunity to create a life that's as rich as what we have. This proposition deals with a number of individual issues. The proposition is exposed to holistic and coherent thinking, it is exposed to thinking like: Is this the right choice, in this corridor? Is this the measure that can solve the greatest challenges we face? The transport sector is the sector in Norway where emissions of dangerous greenhouse gases are increasing most rapidly. Nevertheless, it is not even mentioned when we launch new major motorway projects that we know will help increase traffic and will help once again increase the emissions of dangerous greenhouse gases. It doesn't look like that many people even care. It's not hard to tip that maybe I'm alone here today who's going to talk about it. It's worrying, because it's about power that we're going to be able to create a development that makes our children and grandchildren have a chance to create a good life, that we're going to deal with these problems. And then it applies to the transport sector as much as many others. When you created the previous National Transport Plan, you said we should think of a corridor, we should think about socio-economic efficiency, and we should think about the environment. Then we should look at which means of transport in this corridor could best solve the transport challenges we are facing. In this proposition, it's missing. Many of the projects located there will generate more traffic into Oslo, while we know that there are bomb stops in new rail investments, which could have solved the problems we are facing in a more environmentally friendly and more socially viable way. On the contrary, in this proposition we really appreciate the really socio-economic unprofitable projects. We're building a really unprofitable alternative at Trondheim Center. Unfortunately, the majority of the committee has opted for an even worse solution than the already unprofitable draft elections of the Government. SV said we were willing to make sure that the least bad option gets majority if the government fraction was willing to support the government's original proposal. I'm sorry. No, the absolutely least profitable road, right in the centre of Trondheim, was to be built. I'm sorry. If you look back at this proposition, you get to a little chapter on the railway in the end. There are no projects. And it's easy to explain, because we only have one big facility in Norway on the railway. It's kind of no new thing to start there. There's nothing new to report about either, and then it's quick to write a little section at the end of the competition that's about to start next year. While we have dealt with this sad matter, the trade unions have presented the proposal for a national transport plan for the next period. It's exciting reading, it's! Amazingly much more exciting reading than what we've been presented for in proposition form here. What the Railway Agency is offering is an investment package that has a net social benefit of NOK 7 billion. For every year we expose these environmentally sound investments that can solve important transport tasks in a socially profitable way, we lose social benefits. It is sad that this is not realized, and that we sit and discuss the motorway piece by piece and divided instead. To be a little positive in the end: I'm glad that a unanimous committee asks the government to come back with a separate case for action against driving in drug addiction. I think it's against people's general legal opinion that you can be put in prison to drive the alcohol, while you almost escape if you're taken drugs in your blood.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1698	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1701	Now Heidi Sørensen – the proposition concerns many things – was not in Lofast. However, in the setting, it is first said that Lofast is included in the comment as for example. The representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen has agreed that the development of the project will begin, and it is underlined that the project will have major positive effects on the area. Then the representative Heidi Sørensen, in his remark, says that she ‘will strongly warn against the very extensive damage to nature and the environment that this project will cause and that could have been largely avoided in the selection of a different trajectory’. Then my question becomes: can the representative Heidi Sørensen tell me what is SV's policy regarding the project Lofast? What should the population in this area be about SV, for example? was on the verge of voting on this matter? This can't be very serious. What is SV's policy regarding, among other things, Loose?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1715	The project representative Stroem is one of the projects that really reduces the socio-economic benefits of what is going on. In addition, there is a project where one makes sure to choose a trajectory where one destroys as much nature as possible. I am very sorry that you have chosen that. It's sad that the bulk of the population has chosen it. That's how you have to make some value choices once in a while. Then it may be that there are things that are more important, such as protecting nature, untouched areas and protecting endangered species, than the choice of just a particular trachea. Tor-Arne Stroem asks a question he knows the answer to. There have also been shared views in SV about this. It's got it. SV has gone for another alternative all the way, because we've thought that it would have been possible to avoid the greatest... and that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1729	The SV’s large-scale work programme we are now in, reads: ‘In the districts, there are often few alternatives to the use of private cars. Transport investment must lead to better roads for people.’ At the same time, SV is opposed to the construction of the Eiksund link in Møre and Romsdal, which will provide 22,000 people with a ferry-free connection to the mainland, an extension that is very important for this part of the district. I have to ask: what does SV in the programme mean when the Eiksund connection does not qualify for such support?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1741	There must be two transport policies in Norway. We have to have a policy for the big cities, and then we have to have a policy for what we have to call District Norway. We cannot conduct the same policy on Grünerløkka as we do on Røst. But for this transportation committee, I have the feeling that District Norway is all outside Ringvej 2 in Oslo. If it is that public transport is good for what is within Ringvej 2 in Oslo, but not otherwise, then we have a serious problem. As far as the Eiksund connection is concerned, SV has been against it for as long as I can remember politics, and it's been many years. We've repeatedly pointed out locally that if we had spent that money differently, we could have gotten into racial protection projects and rehabilitation projects that we could have had in total far greater socio-economic benefits, and could have been of greater benefit to the people who live there than collecting all that money into one project.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1751	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1754	The previous item is going to start its article by saying that there is no raise-up for awareness in this setting. No, maybe not, but there are many projects that are important for business and that are important for the inhabitants of the regions where the projects are located. It's a good idea to use an article to talk about other things than what the proposition is about, but we have a proposition that deals with projects that we've also seen in a context in the previous national transport plan, and that we're now talking about a follow-up or a continuation of. I'm going to take a few of the projects mentioned in the summary proposal. The size has previously decided on the principle of alternative use of ferries subsidiars and that the operating, maintenance and capital costs associated with ferry services can be used as part of the financing of road links that make ferry services redundant. Disengagement of ferry services with bridges or tunnels is of great value for business and bus services. Making continental connections means reducing costs and reducing time spent on travel. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee has agreed on a scheme for alternative use of ferries subsidiaries, and that all real savings should be taken into account at the time of closure. I'm glad that we're now going to base the average cost of capital on calculation, and that we're also going to base an annual increase of 2.5 pst in the 15-year period in addition to the base value of 3.5 million. 2003-krona. I understand that some had hoped that the model to be chosen would give greater coverage to precisely their projects, so that it would be easier to obtain full funding. However, it is important to avoid overcompensation for some projects, when it can lead to poorer ferry provision elsewhere or to the use of funds that are not included in the budget. In my view, it is important to have a model that is easy to implement and that can be practised without extensive use of judgement and judgement. This I mean we've got. Then go to Trondheimspaket with the E6 Nordre download road. In my view, of the two options that are considered a trajectory for the North Route, option 4 is the best. This view initially shares both the Ministry of Transport, the Directorate of Roads and the municipality of Trondheim. The second option, 3.2.A, means that the road will be diverted twice at a 90 degree angle through roundabouts, there will be a mixture of transit traffic and heavy traffic between the freight terminal and the port area on the route between the roundabouts, and a track will cross the E6 Northern route in the same plane. For these reasons, the Council of State does not recommend primary option 3.2.A. Both option 4 and option 3.2.A become more expensive than previously estimated, with option 4 being the most expensive. But both options are billion projects without the big differences between them. However, since option 4 requires a larger toll component that will result in an extension of the toll period, this option has not received local and county consent. Although the Central Party believes option 4 is the best and most forward-looking option, we will focus on the local opinions and, as the Council of State has also done, can support option 3.2.A. We are fully in agreement with the majority in the Committee when it is pointed out that if there is a later demand for standard improvement on the road, no more government funds can be expected. Such additional costs, if any, must be covered locally. In this summary, the Committee is briefed on annual results and exchange for Posten Norge AS. The basis for the exchange is that an exchange of 30 pst must be paid. of the balance of the company the year before. In 2002, Posten Norge AS had a deficit of 43 million. kr. Nevertheless, the Government insists that the Post Norway AS will pay 54 million. kr in exchange for 2003. In my view, this is a strange exchange policy. A company that's undershooting has to pay for an exchange. In reply to a question from the Committee, the Council of State has just said that the Government considers it necessary to make a closer assessment of the case and the consequences of the lien, and that the Government may come back to the Storing on the matter. Of course, the government should come back to the Storting on this matter if the Government is determined to deviate from the basis of the exchange policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1777	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1780	As mentioned earlier, the treatment of the setting has been a good process, and there has also been a smooth political work on the way in which the representative Ringstad worked. Nevertheless, the representative, Mr Ringstad, has an additional concern, where you can basically read that you do not want to go into the option that has been chosen. Now Jorunn Ringstad and I come from a constituency where there is sometimes a long way between the satisfied. The Committee has been travelling in 14 other counties, with expectations far beyond possible majority solutions. My question to the representative Ringstad is: Should we not simply rejoice that we can meet the local wishes in Trondheim?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1789	As a Committee on Transport, we have a responsibility to focus on the issue of road safety, we are responsible for finding the best solutions, and we are responsible for the best possible use of means of transport. I said in my post that I believe that the option for which the centre party has nevertheless gone into, is not the optimal solution. We had two options to choose from, and in my view, option 4 is a better option than 3.2.A, which now has multiples. I'm going to list the arguments that just show that option 3.2 A has its weaknesses, and option 4 would have our more future prospects. However, as I said in my article, when we are also going to consider the local considerations, local considerations have been given a weight that still allows us to support alternative 3.2.A. We're glad we're getting a solution for the North Route.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1796	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1799	With the examination of this aggregate proposal, the Storting supports the Government’s proposal to launch a number of new, large-scale construction projects in the transport sector. This concerns the Eiksund link in More and Romesdal, Lofast in Northernland and the new four-field E18 in Eastfold, all of which will start construction this year. In addition, in the context of the revised national budget, the Storting will join the Government’s proposal to grant 200 million. kr this year to start the construction of the GSM-R train radio system along the Northern runway. And the start of the construction of Norway's first OPS project, the new E39 in Orkdal in the South Trøndelag, happened a few weeks ago. These projects are important and joyous news for people and businesses in large parts of the country. But not only that: each of the projects is in size from 450 million. NOK 1,1 billion, each of which will contribute positively to the level of activity in the civil engineering sector. The employment effect of all these new projects is in several thousand annual works. I therefore believe that this is a good basis for saying that the Government's transport policy makes valuable contributions to ensuring employment and value creation within the framework of an economic policy that facilitates a continued decline in interest rates and rates. I am also pleased that the Storting joins the main features of the Government's proposal on how savings of State grants for ferry operations can be used to implement road projects that provide ferry services. I think it can lead to the realisation of several new transport projects that ensure settlement and value creation along the coast. In the light of the Committee's position, I will now continue to work on the projects in question and come back to Stortingen with them. However, it is a significant challenge to set the amount of the cost of capital saved in a way that does not give undue overcompensation. The adjustments made by Storting may increase the risk of overcompensation. I will, of course, base the Storting's assumptions, but will come back to the question of the cost of capital in relation to the national transport plan, based on what I see as a common desire from all parties to avoid unwanted overcompensation, which in turn will go beyond the ferry offer elsewhere. Construction of the Nordre relief road in Trondheim may, with this setting from the committee, take up the next year, as proposed by the Government. Building according to the so-called option 4 would, in the government's view, be the clear best solution for achieving the desired positive effects on the North Route. I believe that the majority of the committee agrees with this, but that the majority still chooses option 3.2.A, because it does not seem possible to get local support for the funding of option 4. Based on this alternative, I have recommended the choice of option 3.2.A, assuming that local authorities themselves find a cure for residual funding, and that any future local requirements for standard raising are not met by additional State resources. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports these assumptions, and endorses the proposal for an amended toll system in line with local wishes for the realisation of the North Sea route. Finally, I would like to stress that I share the Committee's concern that more and more drivers in traffic are affected by alcohol or drugs other than alcohol. Some 5000 such cases are now detected in the year. It's a high number, but at the same time it's an indication that we have an effective system to control drug driving. Norway is in the world peak in the detection of alcohol other than alcohol, and there is no reason to believe that this is because, in Norway, especially, many people are in the affected state compared to other countries. The Committee calls on the Government to come back to the Storting with a separate case on measures to combat drug driving. I will follow this up, and will come back to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1820	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1823	I'm wondering why the council will come back to Stortinget with a new case of ferry termination. Now there's a group committee that's given so clever leadership that it's just supposed to be calculating, as far as I can understand. I am pleased that there is a specific issue about drugs and driving, and I would like to ask the Council of State how far this has come in the development of drugs meters and so on. And if you haven't come that far, what initiative will the Council of State take to get ahead with this? There is a comprehensive committee that will look at the purchase agreement between the NSB and the Ministry of Transport, and we say that Stortinget should not enter into a detailed management of this. Does the Council of State think that the closure of all night and night services in this country is such a detail?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1832	There were a lot of questions, and I'll try to get into as many of them as I can. In the case of so-called drugmeters, the Ministry of Justice has taken the initiative to launch a pilot project on drug testing. So there's a work going on with this, and it's important to follow it on. I still want to warn you that we use that kind of technical method and trust that it will help us further. There are many challenges, and we need to address this issue on a broad front. Narcometer can be one thing. Experience so far shows that these types of measuring instruments are unable to measure all types of substances. We might be able to take some, but not all. It's natural for us to go through the purchase agreement with the NSB. In fact, I think it's a good idea to go through it essentially in relation to the Storting. When we're going to put out competition, we're going to have to go into more detail on many aspects of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1841	I'm recording from the proposition that you're not going to start big new projects. You wait, for example, for to initiate the construction of a new tunnel west of the Drammen. Now we see that economists, among others. Mork, has stated in today's Business that you could have inserted NOK 5 billion extra. for road construction in the context of the revision. We know that damage and killing in traffic cost society 25 billion kroner per year. years, but you don't do anything anyway. You can improve business conditions by building new roads, but you don't. Isn't it time we started focusing on people by building safe roads and not just betting on photoboxes and such actions? Get people to work, build new roads! When are the suggestions coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1853	I wonder a little about the representative Kenneth Svendsen and I'm talking about the same thing. We have a setting here that deals with a wide range of projects that start up now, to significant values, and that means jobs for a lot of people. It is that in the midst of this problem, we are facing the construction of roads and want to build roads also in the districts, so that we can use the whole country, and that's important. But then we also face the challenge of not having such a pressure on the economy that competitive activity, along the coast in particular, goes bankrupt. Now we have more examples of that. Then we can't build roads, to say it like this, with one hand to then risk that we have to shut down businesses with the other because we don't show accountability in the economy. I'm going to do mine to have a good transport policy and a good economic policy here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1860	The Council of State is quite right that there are proposals to launch many new projects in this proposition. But I wonder if the Council of State has reflected that none of the projects are linked to rail or public transport. I would therefore like to ask: is it indicative of the overall policy on transport that this government is responsible for? And then I also want to use the opportunity to repeat the question from Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt: Is it such that putting down the entire night and night offer in Norway is to be seen as a detail?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1867	I can't say anything but that it's spent 200 million. kr on GSM-R, railway safety. GSM-R shall not be used on the road, shall not be used in the air, it shall be used on the railway, i.e. it is a solid contribution to the revised national budget. It also shows some of the efforts this government has planned to make in terms of public transport. It means a lot to us. Night train is no detail. Night train is an essential offer for many here in the country. I've never said it's a detail, it's an important question, and it's an important question for several of the parties here on the Stortinget, also for the party I belong to. But I do not accept that we are negotiating with the NSB through newspapers or that kind of thing. We are in dialogue with several companies, among others. interested in looking at the running of these trains.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1874	I first want to repeat a question that Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfeld put in his line, and that I do not perceive that the Council of State commented, simply a holiday solution. As I understand it, when this evening is over, we have made the necessary decisions in Stortinget. Then we're going to have everything in place, so that we can start up and implement projects with holiday solutions. I'd like to challenge the Council of State to comment if she doesn't see it the same way. And then another question, and it goes into the Post and the exchange policy. We have been informed by this case here that the Government insists that the Post Norway AS will pay 54 million. kr in exchange this year, even if the Post had a deficit last year. My simple question is: Has the government been working on a new exchange policy in relation to what our practices have before?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1881	Holiday relief projects are a theme that governments are very concerned about, and that's why we've addressed the topic. The details of the models to be used are given by the Stortinget. We have to get back to that when we have the concrete projects. I have a lot of understanding of what's been put in. I am also concerned about, as the Storting is concerned about, that this is not the way we calculate the cost of capital. It should not affect the holiday offer for others, and that is what I am concerned about. I am very eager to get holiday relief projects based on this, but we also have to make sure that it does not go beyond the holiday offer in general. It's bad district policy. But I'm absolutely sure we're going to find out about good projects. As for the Post, and in terms of the dividend policy in general, I will of course come back to it in the ownership message.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1888	It's getting late in the evening, but I'm not sure if I understand that the council said so much about the highway bridge in the Drammen and the Kleivene tunnel, and I could have thought that she had given some point of view of it. For as I have seen from the Council of State in other contexts, she has said that she is positive in finding a solution for the new Kleivene tunnel. At the same time, I record here in the debate that the government party is rather sharp in its remarks on the same and is afraid that it will go down on other projects or other parcels on the E18. Can the council say anything about what kind of thoughts it has when one sees the recordings from the colleges and the thoughts they've been doing about the same, the Kleivene tunnel?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1893	I think the question of Drammensbrua and the Kleivene tunnel is completely legitimate questions. There are important sections of a tribal road here in the country, and it's natural that we see it in context. We've come a lot shorter with the Kleivene tunnel on schedule. That's the reality we're facing, and what I've said is that we have to make sure to get on with that plan work, and that's what's going on. I would also like to remind you that the Storting Control Committee recently unanimously underlined the need for quality assurance of large-scale projects. These are big projects, and therefore it is important that we have just the process that the Storting has asked us to have. That doesn't mean we're against the projects as such, but we have to run a proper process.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1900	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1903	I want to mention two points in the plot for the E18 motorway bridge in the Drammen. I am happy on behalf of everyone on the road because the construction of a double bridge has started. I'm also happy on behalf of people in the Drama that an important piece in the Drama Package is under work. The node Drammen has lived with traffic noise, exhaust gas and suspended dust long enough. The battle for tunnel instead of bridge is over, and we at Stortinget must only do our utmost in the budgets over the next few years, so that the agreement between the state, the municipality and the county municipality is fulfilled. There is still a good part to the implementation of the progress plan. At all major exit weekends to Vestfold and the Southidyllane, the Drammen is the big bottleneck. Therefore, the Labour Party of the Government is asking for plans to come back to the Stortinget to find a solution to the Kleivene tunnel and to build a new tunnel that will solve the problem of endless queues. The working party is actually willing to re-prioritize funds, if necessary, so that there will be a four-field motorway from Oslo to Tønsberg at the same time as the new bridge. I'm glad that the professionals in their recording for the revision of the NTP also realize that a new Kleivene tunnel is needed. I hope that all the tens of thousands who want to queue in the summer past the Drama will not do anything about this now, that the government thinks cows are fun, and here they can only stand, both now and when a new bridge is built. Let me so come with a little prayer to the Council of State. This applies to noise protection along the E18 in Buskerud. When two subdivisions are completed, they are left with a budget surplus that almost stretched to a third area, the soil at Frydenhaug. The mass is going to get local, and after the estimate of the cost, there's a deficit of 1.5 million. kr. We're talking about little money in road conditions, but for the inhabitants who have had E18 as their closest neighbor for 30 years, it would have been nice if you could find these heads, so that you could make use of the Earth's masses and put them in place and not create another place. The other thing I want to take for granted is a new progress plan for rail competition. The working party is pleased that the department is taking better time with the supply papers and with what should be the guidelines for new train operators operating on the passenger traffic side. Without doubt, it must be such that the security is placed in the high seat without consideration of the operator. The qualification requirements must be the same. St. pp. No 1 for 2002-2003 had information on the agreement on the purchase of passenger transport services by NSB AS by the State. It has been assumed that the contract is essentially a continuation of today’s train production. In recent times, we have received notice of stopping the night and running after the new year if government purchases are not increased. Of course, there is no country, nor of those with a dense composition, who do not subsidize nightlife. There is also a rumor that certain day trains on the long - distance routes are in danger. The announcement by members of the Committee on Transport has, for some time, been quite clumsy, that the railway only operates with suction and sewing, and that the railway has no future other than in the near and intercity context. That's where the Workers' Party announces battle. The railway has a future in its own right. It looks at the bet in other countries. But then one has to upgrade the 100-150-year-old railway so that one can recover the investments that one has already made in new train equipment and that work that is only partially completed is completed. The working party is set up to hold a debate in which environmental requirements, removal of existing funds, security and public purchases are put on the file. These are things we have to get back to in connection with the rolling of the National Transport Plan. Today, I could imagine challenging the Council of State on what thoughts and solutions she sees for the railway to survive. Is it satisfied with the announcement made by the head of the Transport Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1926	In this case, too, we find that the Progress Party has some divergent proposals in relation to the plurality. There are several issues in the road sector where they go in without reference to coverage and say that this is what we are going to take over the state budget. We have three cases later tonight where the same is the case. There are no more than a couple of weeks since we in this room are dealing with a matter in which the same party suggested that we – even without coverage – start building a four-field road between Oslo and Trondheim. Then the question that I thought it was okay to ask: is there anyone in this room who thinks there is something like a free road? No, the truth and the back of the picture that the Progress Party is trying to show with its own policy, we can find if we go into the budget setting for the current year, because there had to be the Progress Party down on Earth. They had to come in and give priority to real money, not just monopoly money and money. And then what was the Progress Party doing? Yeah, they cut, among other things. 140 million. SEK, i.e. 20 p., of the Coastal Plant's budget, what will go to secure the coast, to secure fairways, lighthouses and brands. They cut 80 pst. of what was to be researched in the field of transport. It's possible we know what we need to know about transportation, but still, we shouldn't neglect knowledge that way. They cut 30 pst., 100 million. NOK, on the purchase by the State of postal services. If it was going to go beyond the six-day delivery, if it was going to go beyond Svalbard, or whatever it was, they obviously didn't say anything about it. And they cut 600 million. kr, i.e. 20 pst, on the operation and maintenance of the network we have in Norway, which is one of the bottlenecks in order to develop the railway where a railway still has a future. This shows how completely absurd a part of these proposals are, and I think I'm starting to go up for the vast majority of people even outside this hall. However, let me concentrate on what is positive in this matter. If the principle that is now being speculated once and for all, I would say that this means that one can now use the same money for 15 years to build roads, tunnels and bridges that can make ferries superfluous. It's a novelty that some people launched 15-20 years ago, and it seems to this government, this Committee on Transport and this big deal to the credit that we're now able to do this. We've been discussing full compensation, overcompensation, and how this would turn out. I believe that in the short term, this will be primarily to the delight of the many in business and the many who live and work in these areas. But in the long term, there is no doubt that the government will receive large net income, as he gets rid of a very large cost item. Although there has been some discussion back and forth today about further follow-up, I hope and believe that the department, as the Council of State also said, will present the first cases to the Stortinget during this year. Let me also express my joy – because a little local politician is one even when one is in the Committee on Transport – at the fact that the Eiksund Association, which has been in doubt several times, is now finally being speculated. They say that we now have a progress that means we're going to be finished in the autumn of 2007. It's a joy. When the representative Sørensen said earlier today that the same inhabitants would have so much fun about whether this was used for racial protection and some smaller projects, I think the representative Sørensen is ill-informed about the situation when it comes to both business and social development in Southern Sunnmøre. This is also a day of pleasure for us who live in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1943	The proposal for alternative use of ferries is a very good proposal and a sensible way to make some ferry connections redundant. There are many projects waiting for a solution, and the decision we are about to take will enable many of them to be resolved faster than would be possible through ordinary budgetary procedures. Many coastal communities are given a new opportunity with this Decision, and as such it contributes to contributing to some of the overall objectives of the transport policy, namely to ensure settlement, regional development and short-distance travel. Here, the Council of State shall be commended for having made a good proposal quickly. I will not go into detail on the proposal for depreciation rules and the calculation of capital costs, but the solution to calculate an average savings cost of 3.5 million. kr annually over 15 years of depreciation, seems reasonable. There is also reason to stress other savings contained in the proposal. Where new ferries are released, it will be economical compared to fleet renewal. There is a great need for that. New safety requirements will require a significant upgrade of the ferry fleet. In seven years, in 2010, 121 out of 193 ferries will be over 30 years old. The need for renewal is far greater than the progress permitted by the budgetary framework in the annual budgets. It is an additional gain that also comes on the positive side in relation to this type of proposal. A new railway deployment progress plan is being briefed. I note that this has become more complicated than the large number of people appear to require when competitive outsourcing was adopted in the context of the 2002 budget. There are a lot of issues that need to be put in place before it is possible to put off competition. These relate to security issues, to superfluous material issues, to workshop and maintenance issues, to the relationship with staff members of the NSB and to issues relating to NSBs being able to compete abroad at the same time. Here are several difficult things that have to be solved. The Swedish Government has full support when the department takes the necessary time. There have been many different and varied experiences of competitive outsourcing, both in Sweden and Denmark, which the Council of State should take with it before coming to the Stortinget with proposals for competitive outsourcing. The Committee, acting unanimously, has requested that the agreement with the NSB on the purchase of transport services by the State be set out in the 2004 budget. At the same time, it is stated that you should not enter into the detailed management of the purchase agreement. But the comment must clearly be interpreted as meaning that the statement should be more thorough than that contained in the year's budget, without the entire works of agreement being treated as a matter of its own. The State purchases passenger train services from the NSB for almost NOK 1.4 billion annually. There has now been a debate because the board of directors of the NSB has indicated that nocturnal agents will be laid down if the framework for the purchase agreement is not raised to next year. If this is implemented, this means that the NSB will lose approx. 300000 passengers per year. There are travelers who will either take a car, a bus or a plane, and what are the social consequences of that? It is claimed that Norway spends disproportionately on the purchase of rail services, but if we compare with our neighbouring country, the answer is no. Sweden spends NOK 3.7 billion on the purchase of passenger train services, and Denmark spends NOK 4 billion. Compared to us, Denmark has smaller railways. They have 3,300 km of railway, while Norway has 4,000 km. So unless the railways use Denmark almost three times as much as Norway for the purchase of passenger train services. I look forward to the Stortinge in connection with the 2004 Transport Budget getting a thorough account of the purchase agreement, and taking a thorough debate on what we want with the NSB, and on what is reasonable and possible to get out of what we use on the purchase of services, so that we can facilitate that more people can travel by train in the years to come, and not less, as the development now seems to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1967	St. pp. No 67 deals, inter alia, with: E10 Mainland connection to Lofoten, Lofast. The working party is very satisfied that this is now in place and that the project will now be started in the summer. This project will have major positive ring effects for this region. It will have a major impact on employment and business. It will also have a major impact on the settlement. This would mean that someone, for example, can live in one municipality and work in another. Good transport solutions are important then, and Lofast is a good contribution in that direction. It's very good district policy. With regard to the Post, which someone has been in here today, it is important that we have a good offer across the country. Then it is also important that we have good solutions. Then I have to touch on the dividend policy that is running towards the Post today. Today, we're taking a dividend from a company that's running out of money. One can ask himself whether this is a correct policy. We have today a company that is undergoing major conversions, and then it is important that the Post has a proper financial basis for doing this task. That is why, in the view of the Labour Party, we must carefully monitor the situation and look at these issues. The Workers' Party has noted that the Government considers it necessary to carry out a detailed assessment of the appropriations and that the Government will return to the Stortingen case if necessary. The Workers' Party is critical that the Government continues its policy of weakening Post Norway BA's competitiveness and the possibility of developing the company, and asks for a thorough review of this in the Section 10 Communication, which is now deferred to the autumn. In the case of alternative use of ferries grants, work has been carried out over several years on a scheme that will allow for the receipt of ferry subsidies for a period following the replacement of the ferries by bridge or tunnel. Such a solution would be better both for citizens and for the state. When the Storting gets this in place, it becomes an incredibly important matter for many places and communities in this country. The Norwegian coast is full of islands, and we have a coastline that is twice as long as it is around the equator. The people who live on the islands, thrive, and many also enjoy traveling by ferry. But others, both individuals and businesses, feel that the ferries are a disadvantage in terms of housing and business. Alternative use of ferry subsidies will solve many human problems. We in the Workers' Party are very pleased that the Storting has agreed behind our principles, and that one found a good and practical way to solve this. So everyone should be happy tonight, and be satisfied that we have found a good solution for many people in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1984	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e1987	It is very positive that a majority in the evening is in favour of building narrow four-field motorways on large sections of E18 through Østfold, a road where traffic is growing very rapidly, and much faster than the forecasts that previously led to expansion, where accidents are serious and many. The country’s road system’s traffic growth figures for the last ten years are above 3 pst. It is far above what was laid down when Phase 1 of the Eastfold Package was dealt with here in the Stortinget. Therefore, the change from two to four fields is both forward-looking and necessary. Increased costs with a four-field road are estimated at 750 million. kr. I assume that the state, on its part, covers its part of the costs as provided for in Phase 1 of the Easternfold package, including the costs of the extension we are now adopting. The increase in traffic growth is already giving rise to increased tolls. There's every reason to believe that there's no need to double the tolls, as suggested in the proposition. The working party does not consider it acceptable to double the tolls, but rather sees a solution by extending the toll period, as suggested in the proposal, and so that the calculation also goes into a jump. It is also positive that there is now a clear signal that the Parcel Sekelsten-Krosby through Askim is allowed to borrow money, so that the plant can have its progress and be completed by 2005. That means that the state's money for the whole couple, which is cost-based at $400 million. kr, must arrive no later than 2005, and I ask the Council of State to confirm it. There's every reason to notice that the Progress Party is still talking about building the E18 without tolls. This is a solid bluff. With their proposals, it would be even longer before we got a much more traffic-proof and affordable E18 through Eastfold. When SV goes against both building four fields and providing for the expansion now, there is reason to notice. We are familiar with all the sufferings associated with all the serious road accidents every week, and if you are not willing to innovate that this will create a much better road safety, I think there is every reason to notice that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2002	Glittering success will hardly be the characteristics of today's Norwegian railway. The NSB does not have the power to hold its customers. The last problem out was traffic on the traditional Bergensbanen. The role of the NSB in the decline is difficult to assess from the outside. Maybe the NSB is doing a good job, maybe they're not doing it at all. The point is that we have no reference basis to compare the total activity of NSB. Allocated authorities are blind: we don't know. It is not healthy for any transport company to operate inside a cheese lid, shielded from opponents. Therefore, Government Parties wish to open up to rail providers so that the wishes of users can be assessed from more than one operator. It is also good for the NSB that the railway is maintained by several ideologists, analysts and practitioners. The more and better the resource groups it is working on railway issues, the better the railways we get. So logical and so simple! Although this postpones the railway competitiveness plan, this railway philosophy remains firm. We want better quality and more passenger kilometres for our train billions. Then to the Mossevej. The part of E18 that lies between Sørenga and Fiskevoll in Oslo has long been a problem section. The planned channelling of traffic through E6 has not been successful. The pressure on the Mosseweg continues with the formation of traffic, exceptionally high accident rates and the passing through of residential environments as a result. The need for the Mosseweg in the tunnel was fixed by the planning of Oslopacket 1, but the plan did not suffer the difficulty of being realized. The tunnel is socio-economically profitable and implementation of the plan as a OPS project does not pose significant problems. Toll-only funding may be provided. Enquiry should be seen in the context of future roadside treatment in Oslo and Akershus. The Mosseweg in the tunnel is a natural continuation of an underground traffic vein in the innermost part of the Oslo soil connected to the Mountain Line and the Bjørvika Tunnel. The quadruple tunnel opens up urban development in the city's finest residential areas and opens up to the public access to the sea. There is widespread support in the Storting for this, which I do not hesitate to call an environmental project. I am convinced that this political pressure represents the light in the tunnel that makes the Mosseweg in four fields realized as a OPS project.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2017	I would like to mention two issues which the Stortinge considers in this case, and which will have a very positive impact on, among other things. for More and Romesdal. The opening up of ferry subsidies for the construction of bridges and tunnels may prove to be a very positive means of replacing ferries. Many island communities can now have continental connections, and island communities can be linked so that in the future they can become stronger housing and business security units, cultural exchanges, better and more sensible building and operation of administration, both in the public and private sectors, etc. In my state there are several connections that will now find their solution. The development of Kristiansund as the base city for oil and gas activities off the Norwegian coast will be greatly improved by relieving ferries. The gas-based activity on the Tjeldbergodden will be able to achieve a lift with a better link to a regional centre. Internal communication between several municipalities improves and opens up a common and more flexible labour market. In this context, the realisation of the Imarsund link is very important, and now the spade can soon be set in the soil. The Averøy tunnel connects Kristiansund and neighbouring municipalities. The possibility of interaction between the two major gas treatment plants on the Tjeldbergodden and the forthcoming installation at the Aukra is radically improved. The North Island road system in the southern part of the county is becoming increasingly realistic with the decision taken today by Stortinget. And the possibilities also open up for more connections. Today’s decision, of course many others and also the committee leader, opens up the final clear signal for the Eiksund link, which connects two regions, Norway’s heaviest maritime environment on the ship and equipment supplier side, represented by, among others. Ulstein, and the popular municipalities of Ørsta and Volda. It also means improving the connection both south and eastward, in and out of the county. In 2003, the Workers' Party proposed and adopted a total of 10 million. kr. to launch in the 2003 budget. This has ensured the start of construction at the end of this year and the start of the tunnel in 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2032	I have a question for the Minister for Transport that needs to be clarified, because of this brief extension of the meeting. First, I would like to ask the representative of Kjestad: why does he think Norway should be able to drive trains generally cheaper than other countries? Why does he think Norway as the only country in the world can run night and without subsidies? Is it because Norway is such a simple country to build and run rail in? But then to the question to the Council of State. So it's about ferries subsidiaries. In the past, we have said that ferries subsidians to the individual connection should be kept for 15 years after it has been closed and replaced by a bridge or tunnel. Today, we say that those who compensate for the cost of capital will receive 3.5 million. kr for 15 years plus 2,5 pst. Price rise per year years. In addition, the amount shall be EUR 3,5 million. Not later than every four years. When calculating the cost of borrowing money to finance this, they may, if they have a binding loan agreement, calculate the interest they have received. This is the message, councillor, from a gathering committee. There's no need for a rematch. We've made up our minds, without going back. I would like an insurance on this. For now, people on Finnøy, on Hitra, in Askvoll, in Fjaler, in Kristiansund, all over the coast, have to be able to figure out what they can get in support when they create alternative projects. Now we don't have to let one come back and see if it fits anyway. If the council had taken a decision, we should have been informed. But a consensual committee would be safe and good for the council to lean on. So I hope and believe that the Council of State does not doubt that we should have new rounds of rounds when it comes to suspension agents. We have rarely been more specific and clearer than we are in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2044	In the case of ferry subsidies and the case dealt with here, I just have to remind myself that I belong to a party that has been very concerned about this, and that I belong to a government that is occupied with it. I'm going to add the reason what the Storting says in the setting. I also have a duty to say from if it becomes problematic in relation to the total budget for the ferries. I want to say that I am very eager to replace some ferries with mainland connections, with bridges, tunnels or whatever it may be. That's what the government has proposed. We've just used sound logic. That's what I feel that Stortinget has followed up. We just have to make sure that we do this in a neat and proper way. We want this to be a good thing for the districts. But then we also have to be clear that we don't want it to go beyond what we have left to ferries elsewhere where you're left with their ferry solutions. I have recorded earlier in the debate that more people have been interested in it, and I have appreciated it very much. I am happy to work on the first case that we can present to the Stortinget about this, because I think that is actually worth it. I'm not going to take a fight, we just have to make sure that we get a good policy – overall – for those who are dependent on ferries, and for those who want a ferry strike. Then I want to say a little about the railway – I was challenged to do so. Do we really do anything to make the railway survive? Then I want to say that spending 6 billion kroner this year on the railway is a solid contribution – because we want something out of the railway. If I had not believed that the railway mattered, I would have spent my money on something else. The railway is important. We spend NOK 1.4 billion on the purchase, and there have been more people in there. It's more than the last government ever used. We've now gone in by 200 million. on safety measures through GSM-R. It's important for the future of the railway. We have been committed to making rail competitive because we want to ensure the citizens of this country – who have the opportunity to travel by rail – a good offer. We believe that competition can contribute to a good offer. It also requires us to use the time wisely when we're preparing this, because there are major challenges here. We do not want to facilitate a competition to destroy the railways, but simply to ensure that the railways succeed in this country. That's our motivation, and we're going to work on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2060	The chairman of the Committee on Transport, Petter Løvik, had a formidable attack on the Progress Party in an intervention earlier today. It's a little amazing with the Right – sometimes they attack the budget of the Progress Party that we don't have coverage for our proposals. Today, it is clearly the opposite – it was the attack on our cover that came. Among other things, Løvik concluded that we had cut down on cultural research. Yes, it's so simple that we can see it! When the speed limit is set at 100 km/h, and there is a stop in the number of fatalities in traffic in those areas, there is a stop in the occurrence of severe damage – then we do not need research to understand that there are new and better roads needed to end the accidents in traffic. We understand that. I interpret the attack from the leader more as based on the principle that attack is the best defense. What about the objections and promises to the Right, which the current parliamentary leader and former leader of the Committee on Transport, Nilsen, stood for? If we count on it and look at the national transport level, they lie here – after two years – 1.4 billion after the promises. In addition, the right had an extra 1 billion kroner per person. years, and here they also lie. In addition, the Sem statement, of course. That is to say, per cent. Today, the right is NOK 4 billion according to its own promises. We are accelerating this out of the period – the National Transport Plan period – is Right 7.4 billion after its promises. I understand that the Right Party needs to cover perhaps one of the greatest promises of the modern era, but they have shot a record bomb and attack the entire budget of the Advance Party. Right should try to fulfill your own promises. If the Right had done so, they might have voted in favour of some of the proposals of the Progress Party that exist today, but they do not. Instead, they do the opposite of what the Right previous stood for — they tax the drivers even more, through even more tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2069	On a number of occasions, the Council of State has indicated that 200 million are being used for the purposes of the revision. kr more on GSM-R and on railway safety. It's probably part of the truth that on one side it's going to be 200 million. kr extra on GSM-R, while on the other hand you have cut 90 million. kr for operation, maintenance and safety on the railway – including 25 million. kr for securing level crossings. It is not a positive contribution to improving railway safety. When I took the floor, it was to say that I have registered that the representative Tor-Arne Stroem – who is not in the room right now – had a reply earlier today about Lofast. The replica was formulated in such a way that one could get the impression that he thought we were treating Lofoten's mainland connection as a matter today, but it is four years since the Stortinget decided Lofast and choosing a trajectory. SV has gone in for Lofast, but we have gone in for another trajectory, and that is what is reflected in one note from Heidi Sørensen. But as a northerner, and as a resident in a region where Lofast will have meaning, I can confirm that when that road is now being built, it will have a very positive impact on the region and on regional development – I have found it right to be in a comment on that. We have agreed that Lofast is being built, however, with a different view of trasé elections, and we do not suggest that the project be stopped in this case either.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2078	What got me to ask for the word again was the Council of State's response to the line on the ferry termination project. Now the Council of State in the last article has been a little clearer that the model was in place, because it could be a real trick in the answer to the line before. I understand that the committee has had a good dialogue with the state councils in getting the last pieces of the model in place. Then, as the Council of State has done several times in this debate, we can't start asking questions about whether we have a model here that means overcompensation for individual projects. Of course, each project must be accounted for, but it must be within the framework of the work on the financing plan for the project, not because the model is unclear. I would like to underline, as others have done, that there is a group of committees behind the option of alternative use of ferries subsidiaries. The Committee notes that the Storting has been informed by the State Council of what will happen. I expect that soon we will have the first projects, where we will use the model as part of the financing plan for the holiday settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2088	The representative, Kenneth Svendsen, said that I had come with a formidable attack on the Progress Party. It is possible to see it that way, but from my point of view, there was an attempt to clarify it and to show that a case usually has at least two sides. The representative Svendsen also said that it varies a bit if we owe them not to have coverage, or if they owe for the coverage they have. Yes, both are actually true, because in most cases, the Progress Party will not show the cards what this is going to exceed. But in the autumn budget they showed the cards, among other things. in the case of maritime safety, railway safety and other priorities, which were the cost of increasing in other areas. It seems to me that it is important to get there, so it is not stated that the Progress Party's alternative should not cost anything. We like to dream. I also dream about much bigger roadways. There should only be a lack of a person who doesn't do it as a transport politician. But it's the real money that comes out to real road construction, which means something to the seventh and last, and that gives results that our voters and residents know to appreciate. So talk about the Progress Party and Svendsen also about Right's missing bet and the Government's missing bet. So far, we have at least raised DKK 1.8 billion more in the road sector in total over two years than if we had the same level as in the 2001 budget. I think this is a significant bet. Then I talk about operation, maintenance and investment. Whether the Progress Party will finance even more by using its future money, use interest – that is, endangering the policy we are pursuing, by increasing interest rates – or re-prioritising what they did this year in the budget, it will be the Progress Party's case, but in any case it has a price. I believe that the representative Svendsen also knows in the heart, and I believe that it is important that we get out in these debates. So to what has been said about ferries subsidiars. It is clear from Stortinget's side that this should not lead to overcompensation, but that it should be full compensation. Both the government and the stockpiling have tried to assess this. We don't know the final result, how well we hit, until afterwards, but I'm pretty sure that the sum we've put in – and that's right as it's said here, it's quite precise evidence of how this is going to be done – will lead to that both local communities and the state in the long term will have a huge financial gain from this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2101	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3443]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2116	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the representative Simonsen. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Otherwise, when the president looks at the setting, the president hopes that we won't spend so much time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2125	I'll be brief. The president referred to the position, and I just want to say what the majority of the committee has come up with. It's a majority without the Advance Party. We do not want to comment on the content of the proposal, and we cannot therefore recommend that it be dealt with now. The Progress Party supports Simonsen's proposal and will perhaps take the floor to explain its point of view. The majority of the Committee will refer only to the national transport plan, which will be discussed in spring 2004. Traffic safety will be addressed here in its entirety. We will also refer to the annual budgetary procedures. On this basis, the majority of the Committee proposes that the document be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2140	In this case, the Progress Party will make the following proposals: ‘The Government requests the submission of an action plan for increased road safety, which proposes, inter alia, a significant reduction in the import tax on new cars, where appropriate combined with the introduction of a significant level of wreckage, as well as proposals for increased speed limits on individual road sections.’ In the past, the Progress Party had a proposal to increase the speed limit on the four-field motorway from 90 km/h to 110 km/h. The alternative was 100 km/h, which was at least a bit on the road. It has now been practiced for a while, and with good results. The places that today have 100 km/h have been practically accident-free. So the theory that is constantly being launched that speed kills is not entirely correct in all cases. There is an equal amount of lack of good roads, poor traffic flow, frustration, etc. which is a serious contributory cause of accidents. Today, too, the accidents cost us, as I said earlier today, NOK 25 billion per year. years. Then it's a crossroads that we only spend 11.5 billion kroner on both operation, maintenance and investment on the road network. As far as wreckage is concerned, we have had an experiment with this earlier that proved to be successful as long as the campaign lasted. But unfortunately, this assembly would also cut into this arrangement. I refer then to the proposal that has been put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2153	The representative of Thore A. Nistad has put forward the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2156	I'm not going to do the debate much longer. I just want to stress that there is a positive impact on all the proposals that are included in the debate on road safety. Several of the proposals in document No The 8 proposal that we are debating now can be so absolutely worth considering in greater detail. For example, proposals that lead to a younger car park will give us a safer car park than the one with a high average age that we have today. But then we can always discuss which measures are the most effective in the field of road safety. Therefore, I believe that road safety proposals should be fully assessed. We cannot discuss individual proposals as they may be put forward. When we come to rolling out the national transport plan about approx. For six months, it is natural to consider this Document No. The 8th proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2163	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 16 and 17 are treated together. [[Fotation, see page 3444]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2192	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2199	I shall also be brief in these two matters. We have to deal with two Document Nos. Eight proposals, both supported by representatives of the Progress Party. The Committee has chosen to take the debate on these two proposals together, because they deal with the same route, namely row 4. In Document No: 8:119 the representatives propose the following: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a plan of progress and additional funding other than the current transport budgets, for the construction of Rv 4 in a new line from Gran in Oppland to Åneby in Nittedal as a motorway class B, and from Åneby in Nittedal to Grorud in Oslo as a motorway class A with 4 fields, level crossings and middle parts, and with completion by 2008.’ In the second proposal, Document No. 8:120, promotes the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to initiate the development of the Environmental Tunnel for Rv 4 in Oslo, in four fields between the Hausmann Bridge and the Sinsen Cross.’ The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party, do not wish to make any decision on the proposals now. I expect the Progress Party will comment on its vision. In the near future, especially in the spring of 2004, we will receive a national transport plan for treatment. In this context, we will see all the needs of the road sector as a whole, so that the right priorities in the road sector will be achieved. After our assessment, such projects as this belong there, and we also hope that we can look at them in a complete way. For this reason, the majority does not consider that it is possible to decide on the specific proposals currently under consideration. The majority would recommend that the documents be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2222	One of these two things goes on the construction of environmental tunnels for Rv 4 in Oslo's inner east from Hausmann's bridge to Sinsen. In order to revitalise Oslo's inner east, a section of environmental tunnels is proposed from Sinsenkreuzet to Hausmann's bridge, a tunnel distance of 2,5 km. This tunnel will completely dissipate the current Rv4 following the streetways, approx. 4.3 km from Hausmannsgate and in Lakkegata/Vahlsgate, Jens Bjelkes Gate, Sars Gate, Carl Berner Square, Trondheim Road to Sinsencruiset. The purpose of the environmental tunnel is to improve road safety, accessibility and the environment throughout Oslo's inner east. This area is currently the most traffic-laden area in the interior of Oslo, and there is a large population along all these roads. Traffic is up to a total of 43 000 cars per day. days on several of these parcels. Traffic is a mixture of all possible road users. There are passenger cars, buses, vans, heavy goods vehicles and soft road users such as pedestrians, children and cyclists. In order to improve the conditions in these areas, the Progress Party will initiate the construction of the Environmental Tunnel for Rv 4 in Oslo. Second Document No The current 8 proposal concerns the extension of Rv 4 to motorway through Nittedal between Gran in Uppland and Grorud in Oslo. Row 4 between Oslo and Gjøvik has a non-coherent road standard, from the main road in Oslo to two-field roads crossing plane in Nittedal. The range between Gjøvik and Akershus’ border has very different standards. Between Gjøvik and Raufoss and the Gran Centre, Rv 4 is too low in relation to the traffic density, which is currently around 10 000 AWT. Through Nittedal and from Oslo's border to Grorud, the road standard is far below what is advisable. Many sections have a mixture of road users’ groups representing a high risk of accidents. Traffic density has increased strongly in recent years. In order to solve today’s transport problems and future traffic growth, new Rv 4 should be built as a motorway in two fields from Gran in Oppland to Åneby in Nittedal, and four fields from Åneby to Grorud in Oslo. Such a development can be carried out regardless of the solution chosen in Oslo as regards the ratio of Rv 4, Trondheimsvejen, Rv 163 East Aker väg and the planned Fossil Diagonal. Tunnels should be built where the new Rv 4 track passes through densely populated areas. The current Rv 4-trasé can thus be downgraded to the local road, calculated for all categories of vehicles, and by its own route and cycle path. The result will be fewer road accidents, better environment, better accessibility and a better transport economy. Finally, I must remind you that this will probably also be dealt with in the national transport plan, as we have heard for all the other matters. If all the issues raised in this Chamber are to be included in the national transport plan, the national transport plan will soon consist of an entire library. I know how the national transport plan has become. There's a plan that the Right has been talking about in terms of every single issue of travel today, but what has the Right done in the last two years, when they've been sitting with government and with the famous national transport plan? They are then on arrears that it is completely pitiful. Now they're going to put even more into the national transport plan, and if they're going to have the same promises in the next transport plan that they've had now, there's certainly not going to be much of a way out of this. Otherwise, I will address our two proposals in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2239	The representative of Thore A. Nistad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2242	The fact that the clock has passed midnight does not make these proposals of the Progress Party any better. Now I do not know where the local representatives of the Progress Party are in Oslo East, but let me strongly warn against something that is presented as an environmental tunnel, but that is to have tunnel posts at Hausmann's bridge. Within a radius of 500 metres from that tunnel entrance, there are two primary schools, Lakkegata and Vahl, and a secondary school, Hersleb, and three kindergartens as well. We who live in the city know that the construction of tunnels has got traffic away from residential areas. But we also know that we've got some new difficult points in the city, namely the entrances to the tunnels. Adding a four-field entry right there will only feed Oslo’s car traffic centre in a way that I would strongly warn against. I'm sorry I had to say this so late, but we who live at this tunnel entrance want anything but welcome. Don't call such a plague for an environmental tunnel!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2247	For a long time, the Progress Party has presented a wide range of Document No. Eight proposals in the Transport Committee here at Stortinget. Taking these different suggestions seriously starts gradually. At best, the proposals can only be a repetition of site names in our map books, because they can hardly be serious by the proposers, both in terms of practical feasibility and economics. Without having sat down to calculate exactly and sum up all the proposals from the Progress Party, I would like to assume that the proposals are in the order of several tens of billion dollars in total. I have therefore come to the conclusion that, no matter where a party representative moves in this country, a Document No can be obtained. Eight proposals that show that it is proposed to expand, but we did not have the power to support our proposal in Stortinget because the other parties would not support us. I find it very difficult to understand that the two Documents Nos. The 8 proposals we are now considering, the Nittedal-Oslo road section and the Oslo-Oslo environmental tunnel, serve this type of procedure. But with the Progress Party model for the development of large road projects, there had not been much activity around the country in the road sector, while hard work and splinter have led to many good road solutions, and more will be in the years to come. I allow myself to invite the Advance Party for innovation, in order to avoid standing on the sideline on a case-by-case basis in terms of road development. In this way, we might find a better solution and faster progress on many important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2254	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2257	The representative Holten is very critical of all our suggestions for building roads, but he's not very critical when we suggest something down in Eastfold. Then he's usually gentle like a lark. He was very pleased when we had extra money for the E18 at Wyatt, and when we presented a Document No. 8 proposals for E6 in Eastfold, that was good. Then he was satisfied. With regard to the two proposals on Rv 4, heidi Sørensen is not so excited about it. She probably lives 200 meters away from the tunnel entrance. If I had known it in advance, I should have moved it 200 meters. But it's now another bowl. I know where the tunnel entry is. If one runs from here and comes on top of the Foreplay cover and takes Rv 4 upwards, the tunnel entry becomes right on the roundabout up there. It's before we get to the schools, and that's before we get to the kindergartens. So the 30 000-40 000 drivers that are currently driving between two schools, some kindergartens and beyond Sarsgate, are going to go outside, and the area won't have one car. One can just take that way and turn it into something for these schools, a football field or whatever you want. Then someone got the traffic away. Had it not been for the tunnels that Oslo has today, it would have been the complete chaos throughout Oslo. The tunnels that are built, and they're built for the money that's gone into the bombing in Oslo, have actually saved the whole of Oslo. The tunnels that are, have worked well, and we believe that this tunnel would also be a very good one for Oslo. Aller, it must be for Oslo's inner east, even though Heidi Sørensen lives 200 metres from the tunnel entrance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2268	In transport, fast traffic resolution is high on the ranking path. So much do we appreciate the efficiency of transport systems that some of us, the representatives of the Progress Party, have developed a separate roller band system for proposals on road projects. Rapidly and efficiently, new road projects are being fed towards the voters at a pace that makes the rotational press of the VG work at a standstill, and preferably against election times. There is not the hook, branch or capital that has not adorned the archives of the Progress Party with a fee-earth ribbon of asphalt in x files, middle parts and beautiful border lines. It is of great admiration to the party that the road proposals are consistent, chemically purified for impact assessments, cost estimates and comparison with other road projects, which has the obvious advantage that the proposals can be produced quickly and cheaply. Qualified labour is as well-known as a defect, but I do not want to analyse here where the shortage of labour is most precarious. An additional advantage of the forward-looking Party approach is that it does not need time-consuming depression, rather dangerous tithing of the steep mass of knowledge, where coherence, logic, resource access and the whole are at stake. In the Progress Party, we road friends have finally got our shiny knight in a deadly fight against windmills. The knight must only avoid raising the visor. Then he will be blinded by the sum of all his detached projects. His Stone Age budgeting would destroy hospitals, homes for the elderly, schools and workplaces. That is why in the Stone Age, the budget procedure of the Advance Party is right at home. Norwegian road construction deserves better.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2277	Thore A. Nistad has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2281	It's completely unintelligible that it's the right party that now takes over the role of SV. It is and becomes a mystery that those who attack road development today are no longer from SV. That's right. Every project on road construction today is the Right to go out and attack. This is pure, intersecting madness, they say. Look at our neighboring country, Sweden, which is a poor country. They've built their roads. And what do they do now? Now they're paying $100 billion to build up the railroad. It's Sweden, which doesn't have an oil crown, which doesn't have five ears on the book, while we, who are actually floating over of oil billions, can't afford the railroad. We can't afford planes, can't afford roads – nothing! Right, who in all years has really been talking about roads – I remember Oddvard Nilsen, who we had as our leader the last time, that was not how many people he promised around. Suddenly you have a not one penny – nothing!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2288	His Gijisar Kjæstad has asked for the floor once more. He will, of course, get that, even though the President is in doubt about the value of this debate right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2291	The representative Nistad didn't take my whole point. The point is not whether we are for or against road projects. Our point is that the Progress Party does not dare to take the road debate, namely by comparing projects against projects. That's the only sensible way to get more money back. As long as the Progress Party does not dare to take a comparison project for the project, it becomes completely random how we use the completely necessary investment funds we need to build more meters of roadway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2296	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 16 and 17. [[Fotation, see page 3444]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2312	I just had to get up one more time. This is a very straightforward EEA matter. As the rapporteur, I have only a small comment from the Committee. It is that a unanimous committee asks the Government to work to ensure that checks on tachographs can be carried out at all approved control points throughout the EEA territory, and not only in the country where the vehicle is registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2321	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3445]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2338	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3445]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2355	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3445]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2372	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3445]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2392	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3445]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2409	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3445]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2426	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3446]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2443	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3446]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2460	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3446]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2477	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3446]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2494	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3446]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2512	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3446]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2529	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3446]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2546	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3477]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2572	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3477]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2589	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3477]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2606	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3477]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2623	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3477]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2631	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2638	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Hans Seierstad on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 3, from Ingvild Vaggen Malvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘St.meld. No 30 [[2002-2003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2662	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2669	The correct votes will then be 84 votes against the proposal of the Socialist Left Party and 15 votes in favour. This is not the case. Proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, to voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government – in the further conversion of the Cartwork – not to shut down state-of-the-art offices.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for models of public ownership of the competitive activities of the State Maps, including subsidiaries with their own Board of Directors and State AS. An investigation must also include assessments of copyright law and protection of national road maps.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2710	During the debate, Mr H. Langeland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal has been converted into a transmission proposal, which reads as follows: ‘The government is called upon to make proposals in an appropriate manner, and at the latest in the context of the 2004 State Budget, to strengthen and expand the operation and management of national parks and other areas of protection.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2733	During the debate Hallgeir H. Langeland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal has been converted into a transmission proposal, which reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government contribute to the establishment and co-financing of a competence and culture centre for the wild axis of the Tana River during this metropolitan period.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2756	During the debate Hallgeir H. Langeland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal has been converted into a transmission proposal, which reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government establish a National Centre of Competence for Genetic Ecology, based on the existing Institute of Genetics, Genøk, in Tromsø.It is recommended that the Government examine the structure, forms of association and financing needs and submit proposals for the Centre in the 2004 State Budget.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2781	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 6, by Sylvia Brustad on behalf of the Workers' Party, 2 and 5, by Mr Voksdal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, by Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 4, from Hans Seierstad on behalf of the Center Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The amount consents to the permission of the public limited liability company Saudefallen to continue to regulate the Storevvastre under the conditions set out in St. prp. [[2002-2003]] No 55
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2813	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government, in the context of the 2004 State Budget, to submit proposals which, within 5 years, can realise an energy-saving potential of 25 Sauda deployments.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2828	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The amount consents to the permission of the public limited liability company Saudefallen to continue to regulate the Storevvastre under the conditions set out in St. prp. [[2002-2003]] No 55
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2847	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a state-funded business fund for the municipalities of Sauda and Odda of 45 million. krones. In addition to the development agreement between the municipalities and the builder, the Fund shall be distributed in the same way.’ The central party has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2864	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The amount consents to the permission of the public limited liability company Saudefallen to continue to regulate the Storevvastre under the conditions set out in St. prp. [[2002-2003]] No 55 The Progress Party has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2885	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the establishment of a nutrition fund for Sauda and Odda in connection with the expansion in the Sauda Mountains and return to this in the 2004 State budget.’ The Progress Party and the Socialist Left have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2921	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Mr Voksdal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4, from Hans Seierstad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party Proposals Nos. 1–3, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘1. The government is asking the Government to initiate joint cooperation between the energy authorities of the Nordic countries on measures to ensure the Nordic energy balance and to ensure better functioning of the free power market.2. The Government asks the Government to ensure that Statenet as a transmission system operator has the means to enable them to secure the power supply for particularly critical periods.3. The Government is asking the Government to take the necessary steps to ensure that Statnett is able to build better power exchange mechanisms against the rest of the world.» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2959	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, Labour Party, Advance Party, Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish a plan for upgrading the transmission system with a view to reducing energy losses. The plan shall demonstrate the potential to avoid energy losses in the wiring harness, its cost and the means to be used. This is presented to the Stortinget by the end of 2003.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e2977	Four proposals have been made during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Sylvia Brustad, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party, 3 and 4, by Øyvind Waksdal, on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose technology-neutral support schemes for increased hydropower generation, for example through tax incentives.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to reconsider previously rejected hydropower expansion cases and to promote its own case to the Stortinget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3008	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to simplify the concession rules for the construction of small, mini and micro power plants.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the review of the Overall Plan reduces the concession treatment time for large and small hydroelectric power plants.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3044	During the debate, Mr Voksdal has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to grant the Women’s Heated Energy AS concession for the construction and operation of the new Muradalen power plant in accordance with the NVE’s setting.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3077	During the debate, Mr Vaggen Malvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal has been converted into a transmission proposal, which reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government impose energy efficiency requirements on end-user technologies such as electrical appliances, machinery and equipment in order to reduce the country’s overall electricity consumption. Follow-up to energy efficiency requirements must be ensured through good control and verification of regulated consumer information.’;» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3101	In the course of the debate, 18 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Inge Ryan on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party proposal No. 5, by Inge Ryan on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 6 and 7, by Grethe Fossli, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party, 8 and 9, by Grethe Fossli, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 10-14, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 15 and 16, by Mr Ryan, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 17, by Odd Roger Enoksen on behalf of the Central Party, proposal No. 18, from Geir-Ketil Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Seventeen from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to suspend the establishment of 5 regional investment funds. The funds are given a total capital of 20 billion. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3141	The proposals are then put to the vote. 15 and 16, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to set up a multidisciplinary centre for industrial technology and the environment.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish a fund for environmental technologies and to return to the Storting with guidelines for disposals and guidelines relating to such a fund, as stated. Document No 8:93 [[2002-2003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3163	As regards proposal No: 18, from the Socialist Left Party, the President is informed that it is being withdrawn. The proposals are then put to the vote. 10–14, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: «Chap.Post Purpose:Croner242057 Landwide Seed Fund, granted with 1 000 000 00058 Tapsfonds, awarded with 250 000 000» [[new]] [[new]] Proposal No. 11 sounds: «Chap.Post Purpose:Croner967Investment company, Argentum Fund investment, granted at 2 000 000 000» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the establishment of a Structural Fund in the State budget for 2004 with a capital of approximately EUR 10 million. 50 B.C.E. krones. The Structural Fund shall contribute, through strategic and long-term investments in debt securities, funds, listed shares and through the purchase of enterprises, debt and equity items, to ensuring a long-term and sustainable Norwegian industrial structure with enterprises and business clusters that can be competitive in a globalised market including some major listed companies with head offices and research and development departments in Norway. The management and management of the Structural Fund shall not be subject to the powers of instruction of political authorities but shall act professionally and commercially in accordance with the objectives and statutes of the Fund.’;» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a system of state development contracts that can help to develop new technological solutions or concepts in Norwegian business.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals from the Government in the context of the 2004 State Budget to strengthen the appropriations for research and development contracts of 100 million. SEK in excess of the level of the current year’s allocation.’;» [[IFU/OFU schemes]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3256	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to extend the cereal scheme in the context of the 2004 State Budget, with a corresponding loss fund to a nationwide fund to cooperate with the regional seed funds.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess a capital increase of Argentum Fund investments that may overlap with the seed scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3278	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to issue a structural fund scheme to help support Norwegian companies in a buying-in or restructuring situation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3293	There is now a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget of the Government for 2004 calls for proposals to strengthen the appropriations for research and development contracts [[IFU/OFU schemes]] The Socialist Left has announced their support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3310	This is an unexpected result...
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3313	President! What proposal did we vote on?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3320	We voted on proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party and the Central Party, which the Socialist Left Party has announced that they support. Today there is no fault with the replacement, so this vote should be taken again, there is someone who must say that they have voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3325	President! I guess I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3332	The representative assumes that he has voted incorrectly. Øystein Hedstrøm – for explanation of vote!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3337	For the vote on proposal No. 7: Once our primary proposal for allocation has fallen, I would recommend the representatives of the Progress Party to support proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3342	Then it is very likely that there is no one who has voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3345	President! I guess I've voted correctly. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3353	The President may then assume that 57 representatives voted in favour of the proposal and 42 voted against. The proposal by the Labour Party and the Senterpartiet has thus been accepted. There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend focus areas in the priorities of the instrument to regional development.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3370	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 3, from the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that the competence and functions of what is currently the Norwegian Export Council, SVO, SIVA, Norway’s Tourist Council, SND and Norway’s Research Council’s business-oriented activities are offered on a common user front based on what is currently the SND regional offices and the export office network.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an assessment of the possibilities for decentralisation and simplification of the various commercial loans, grants and equity arrangements of the present day. It is also requested that it be considered that regional schemes should be set up to provide Norwegian business with more resources, provide more long-termity and more regional governance than today.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3392	Proposals Nos. 2 and 4 the President will come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3417	The Working Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party are behind the setting. There is an alternative proposal, No. 2, from the Right, Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to transfer the instruments currently managed by the SND, SVO, the Norwegian Export Council and the Norwegian Tourist Council to the new unit. The size asks the Government to assess whether other relevant entities should be included in the new entity in the long term.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3465	The Working Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party are behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3484	The Working Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party are behind the setting. The Right Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3504	The right, Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are behind the vote, while the Workers' Party has announced that they will support the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3507	President! So does the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3542	Right, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party and the Center Party are behind the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3561	The Working Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party are behind the setting. There is an alternative proposal here, and it is proposal No. 4, from the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party: The proposal reads: ‘The budget agrees to transfer ownership of Argentum Funding Investments AS from SND and SIVA to the Ministry of Industry and Trade from 1 July 2003 ’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3585	The President assumes that the Socialist Left wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3602	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Inge Ryan on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, by Grethe Fossli, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection 3, by Inge Ryan on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 4, by Silja Ekeland Bjørkly on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 5, by Inge Ryan on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 6-8, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party. Ivar Kristiansen has asked for the floor to explain the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3626	Since the matter took a special turn, I allow myself to recommend the government parties to vote against the committee's position, I and II, not because they are some bad suggestions in themselves, but as a consequence of the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party, proposal No. 4, which states that the proposal is not acceptable. So it's been hanging in the air what the government parties intend to do with proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party. I allow myself to read from the comment in the setting of the ownership message, where the government parties in connection with the company structure of Statkraft writes: ‘The majority would point out that a large part of Statkraft’s output is linked to long-term industrial contracts that run until 2010 and that it is consistent with the Stortinget treatment of St.prp. No 52 [[1998 - 1999]] In doing so, it may seem that the proposal of the Progress Party is to be seen as a very good proposal. However, when I recommend that the parties to the government vote against this proposal, it is precisely in the light of the fact that the government is in the process of investigating, examining the proposal, and that the Government will thus return to the Stortinget with the proposal. We consider that to be very good practice, I should not say in contrast to anything else, but at least this is a proper procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3642	This should have been said in the debate, in the President's opinion, because it was as much a debate as it was a explanation of vote. Proposals Nos. 6, 7 and 8, from the Progress Party, is taken up for voting. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size gives the Government the power to convert Statkraft SF into a 30 pst listed company. entries of private owners within two years.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The 2003 budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Crones95091Adtribution of equity State Power SF, granted at 10 000 000 000’» Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The decision empowers the Government to convert the State Power SF into a limited liability company.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3696	Proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to assess the competitive situation of the Nordic energy market in the context of the revision of the Energy Act, and in particular the role and possible dominance of Statkraft. The government shall assess from this point of view how ownership of the country can be organised to ensure more public ownership environments in the power sector. The assessment shall also address the need for changes to the Competition Act in situations where there is a functioning Nordic or European market. The government’s assessment must also have a regional perspective and include an assessment of the regional energy companies as key actors in the power market.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3711	Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government, at the latest, in the context of the 2004 State Budget, to add State Power 10 billion. kronor in new equity to strengthen the company.» The Progress Party has announced that they support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3728	Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to provide the Stortinget with an assessment of how the country’s ownership can be organised to ensure more Norwegian ownership environments in the power sector. The government’s assessment must have a regional perspective and include an assessment of the regional energy companies as important players in the market.In this context, the government is asked to assess how State power can be further developed as a strong energy company in interaction with other companies and how the State can contribute to this.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3745	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess the direct purchase by the State of Oslo of the municipalities’ shares in Hafslund ASA.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3762	There will then be no alternative between the setting and proposal No. 4, from the Right and Christian People's Party: The proposal reads: ‘Document No. 8:114 [[2002-2003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3780	The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3796	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Aud Gaundal, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 12 June 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to review the practical and economic consequences of the closure of the paper part of the Norwegian light sheet and to return to Stortinget as appropriate.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3814	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 12 June 2003. ‘The decision asks the Government to return to the State budget for 2004 with a detailed description of the practical and economic consequences of the Norwegian Lightsblad transition to electronic publishing.’;» The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the proposal. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they will support this proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3832	During the debate, Ms Nistad presented six proposals on behalf of the Progress Party: Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to file a case for admissibility so that the development can be carried out as planned, without new toll runs, and within the framework of 1640 million. SEK for the period 1989-2003, cf. Inner. [[2002-2003]] S. No 272 Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The implementation of the remedial actions of Rv 45 through the municipality of Gjesdal is carried out within the framework of 114 million. toll-free crowns.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The construction of the E18 tunnel, Mossevejen in Oslo, is carried out in accordance with St.prp. [[1987-1988]] No 96 with the State resources already recorded through the tolling in Oslo.’» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit as soon as possible proposals for full financing of the deployment of E18 through Eastfold without toll collection.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit, as soon as possible, proposals for additional financing for refurbishment of the continental link of the E10 Lofoten.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit as soon as possible a financing plan for the construction of a new four-field tunnel for the E18 west of the Drammen.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3883	The President expects the Progress Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3886	SV also wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3906	The President assumes that the Socialist Left will vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3924	Here the President expects the Progress Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3939	During the debate, Mr Nistad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the submission of an action plan for increased road safety, which proposes, inter alia, a significant reduction in the import tax on new cars, where appropriate combined with the introduction of a significant level of wreckage, as well as proposals for increased speed limits on individual road sections.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3964	During the debate, Mr Nistad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a plan of progress and additional funding other than the current transport budgets, for the construction of Rv 4 in a new line from Gran in Oppland to Åneby in Nittedal as a motorway class B, and from Åneby in Nittedal to Grorud in Oslo as a motorway class A with 4 fields, level crossings and middle parts, and with completion by 2008.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e3989	During the debate, Mr Nistad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to initiate the development of the Environmental Tunnel for Rv 4 in Oslo, in four fields between the Hausmann Bridge and the Sinsen Cross.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4028	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 11 June 2003: ‘The Government requests that the obligation to store traffic data for a specified period be submitted to the Size of approval, as specified. Inner. [[2002-2003]] O. No 121 on the Law on Electronic Communications [[ECOC]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4044	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party for Progress and the representative of Mr Simonsen, sent by Mr Odelstinget at its meeting on 11 June 2003:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4063	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party for Progress and the representative of Mr Simonsen, sent by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 12 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case for the organisation of recognition and supervision of all primary and secondary schools.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4078	I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4085	The correct votes will then be 84 votes against the proposal and 15 votes in favour. This is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4092	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 12 June 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government through the supervisory system to ensure that the abolition of the split is not used as a saving measure. The classification breakdown number shall be based on the minimum level of resource allocation even after the determination of the classification breakdown has been removed.The size asks the Government in the announced rating on the basis of the settings of the Quality Committee to assess different models of resource allocation to schools.» Here is the Right, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left behind the proposal. The Labour Party has announced that they will also support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4114	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 12 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with proposals for student democracy and parental assistance and requires that the intention and provisions of today’s Chapter 11 of the Training Act be continued until further notice.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4130	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Karita Bekkemelm Orheim, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 12 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to assume that the transitional arrangements for today’s private schools shall have a period of three years.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4148	The vote will take place on the proposal from Mr Karita Bekkemellem Orheim on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left from the Odelstinget meeting on 12 June 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to present a case which confers jurisdiction on the municipalities in setting up private schools.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4163	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4170	The correct votes will then be 58 votes against the proposal and 39 votes in favour. This is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4177	The vote will take place on the proposal from Mr Karita Bekkemellem Orheim on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left from the Odelstinget meeting on 12 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to add the earmarked grants to the private schools into the framework grant to the municipalities, calculated on the basis of the capital stock in the municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4195	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party for Progress and the representative of Mr Simonsen, sent by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 12 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the introduction of a capital grant and its amendment in addition to operating grants for independent schools in the context of the 2004 State budget.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4213	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party for Progress and the representative of Mr Simonsen, sent by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 12 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case on the scheme of reduction of municipal framework grants for direct State transfers to independent schools.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4231	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Rolf Rikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 12 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortingen with an evaluation and assessment of the impact before any changes to the draft rate are made.’ The Labour Party has announced that they wish to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4251	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Arne Lyngstad, on behalf of the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, transmitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 12 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to assume that the ‘free principle’ shall include independent primary schools, in the sense that self-payments are not allowed beyond established parental limits.’ The Labour Party has announced that they wish to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4259	The centre party also wants to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4280	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Arne Lyngstad, on behalf of the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, transmitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 12 June 2003: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that the changes to the individual school grant in the new state-of-the-art grant scheme shall be within a maximum of +/- 7 per cent compared to the current scheme. The transitional period for already approved fresh oils shall be limited to 3 years.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4298	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Arne Lyngstad, on behalf of the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, transmitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 12 June 2003: ‘The Government is asked to place a significant emphasis on the municipality’s opinion when examining applications for the establishment of health schools where the municipality demonstrates that:– the establishment of the health school has a negative impact on the school structure of the municipality and increases the costs involved in the municipality.– The establishment may lead to the closure of a public school, thereby causing the students significant disadvantages with increased travel time to the public school. The Labour Party has announced that they wish to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4312	from room): The centre party also wants to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4329	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 12 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to add students per student. 1 October of each year for the purpose of counting pupils in independent primary schools for the purposes of calculating grants, and to introduce such a census as soon as possible.’;» The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the representative Jan Simonsen are behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4349	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 12 June 2003:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4369	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 12 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide an assessment of privacy in setting up information bases on student test results at individual level.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18-2.ana.ud618e4389	There is no record.
