ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e30	I first need clarification from the representative Kleppa, whether it really is the case that the representative Meltveit Kleppa believes that in 1998 and 1999, when we had negative real growth in free income for the municipality sector, it was better than next year, with a real growth in free income and income for the municipalities of about 4 p.m. Is it in the spirit of the Central Party that it is better to have a negative real growth when they sit with the Minister for Municipal Affairs than with a formidable real growth when the Right sits with the Minister for Municipal Affairs? Since 1998, the labour market has been declining annually. Now, unfortunately, the unemployment rate is up to 110 000 people. It's a huge waste of both human and social resources. The main reason for this increase is an internationally weak economy. At the same time, in Norway, we have had high interest rates, high interest rates and strange pay settlements. The combination of these has been the fact that competitive business in particular has had and still has problems. That's what the government's policy is meant to tackle. The main objective of this government is to reduce unemployment. Focus on tight budgets has had a mole. We now see that the government's policy is starting to work. The rate of interest from the Bank of Norway is down from 7 to 2.5 pst. The crown has been weakened, especially against the euro recently. The biggest tax reliefs of the times are given, almost $20 billion, mainly to business. Fortunately, now we see that we have had a stagnation in unemployment, even a slight decrease in the last two months. It's important to clarify that there's a long way to go, and a lot remains. But the question that needs to be asked first goes to the Center Party: Would their use of countless more pension billions and opposition billions given a lower interest rate, and thus a weakening of the Norwegian krona? To the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left: Would their tax incentives given increased profitability for the country's businesses, leading to more employment? The answer is obvious. That's the opposite. Getting people back to work is far more complicated than one-sided focusing on labour market measures. The most important thing to reduce unemployment is to facilitate new businesses and to facilitate profitability among existing ones. It is done through tax relief, through a general industrial policy and by facilitating lower interest rates. Unfortunately, in the labour market there will always be people outside. These have a strong public responsibility for them. Working with assistance, permanent work and labour market enterprises is an important infrastructure for those who have the most difficulty. But for those who are unable to get work on their own, Aetat is the most important public contribution. For this government, it is important that Aetat helps more precisely these. This is particularly true of immigrants, young people and the long-term unemployed. Major increases have taken place in the budgets of Aetat in the last two years, especially in 2003, which was, moreover, the largest investment in Aetat in ten years. The rhetoric used by the Workers' Party to try to allocate blame in terms of unemployment is grossly misleading. We know that the main reason for Norwegian unemployment is international short-term economic activity, along with extraordinary changes and measures. It has not led to the fact that this government has been passive. But unlike the Workers' Party's rhetoric, we know that it takes several years before we see changes in unemployment due to fiscal policy. It is also our focus on a tight fiscal policy that has facilitated lower interest rates and thus lower dollar rates. It is thanks to this government that the country has received the tax relief of the times. You can ask yourself if it would have been more or less available if you hadn't received the tax relief of the times and if you hadn't had a tight fiscal policy that would have allowed for lower interest rates and lower dollar rates. Finally, it is tempting to remind the socialist majority of their very negative comment under the BI – whether it is the case that BI does not have the necessary legitimacy to evaluate aspects of the labour market. You could have a need for clarity in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e51	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e54	For the previous speaker, it could be noted that I have not yet registered many of the members of the government parties around the country who are particularly dissatisfied with the Workers' Party's government parties, namely an increase in the municipal budget of almost NOK 2.5 billion. In any case, I have registered in my own municipality of residence, Trondheim, that the bourgeois parties, including the government parties, have used each and every penny alive in the budget debate that has been held afterwards, after the budget conciliation in Stortinget. I have another case, which is mentioned in the vote on page 24, where the majority of the committee, the members of the Workers' Party, SV and the Senterpartie, deal with a matter relating to the relationship between Tidal municipalities and the Finance Parliament and the State. Tidal has actually lost three years of natural resource tax because there has been an internal disagreement in the equality authorities about who is going to pay the tax. The money has gone to state taxes in its entirety instead of natural resource taxes, because it is considered to be a crown for government taxes. This majority of the committee seems to be 'for grievances', in order to say it in a trance, that a municipality should thus suffer harm because of the roots of the authorities responsible for the equation. Now I have previously recorded that the Progress Party has often been concerned that individuals should not be harmed because of the root of the equality authorities. I wonder why the Progress Party is not part of this majority, unless they also agree that there should be an amicable solution between the State of the Ministry of Finance and the Municipality of Tidal, so that neither a municipality should be harmed when it is wrong and root of the equality authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e63	I am very pleased that the Committee is so clear in its comments when it comes to action places in the area of permanent organised work, assistance and other measures for disabled people through labour market enterprises. Here, the Government is getting a clear message from a mass of corporations to outsource both the economy and the dimensioning of such sites over the next year. I am pleased with the positive feedback given by the Council of State in its main contribution. A number of tasks have now been assigned to the Labour Inspectorate. In addition, this oversight is particularly important in relation to the intention of an inclusive working life. I would also like to remind you that there will be even greater challenges for the Labour Inspectorate in connection with the enlargement of the EEA from 1 April next year. The working party would have liked it to have been possible to increase the rights of the Labour Inspectorate next year. In our alternative budget, we proposed a I would also like to ask the Council of State to follow closely and assess the real economic situation of the Labour Inspectorate in the context of the revised national budget next year. In the end, I have received a lot of positive feedback from Kommune-Noreg in connection with the budgetary agreement that the Labour Party and the Government Party had concluded. A doubling of the free income of the local government sector has led to a much simpler, much easier budgetary process for our local politicians outside the local government. I'll take one good example from my own county, from Sauberad Municipality. The municipality got 1.8 million. extra in connection with the budgetary agreement. This meant that they could strengthen their care services by 500,000 kroner, they could strengthen the ground floor by 300 000 kroner, they could strengthen the culture by 200 000 kroner, and the church in the municipality was strengthened by 75 000 kroner, to identify some areas that are well worth being strengthened. The Sauberad municipality is one of the municipalities in Telemark, which have the biggest share of the economy. I don't even think of what the situation would have been like for this municipality if the government had got a pass on their plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e74	After some of the contributions that have been made, I find it necessary to point out that the SV's budget framework has been just like that of all the other parties over the previous years. So we haven't spent any more oil money than anyone else. This year, SV has chosen to spend SEK 2.3 billion more to get the time off. It has been for sensible investments, which we believe would have been a better use of part of the $3 billion increase in the daily allowance, which we are now going to balance up during this week – simply to do the necessary things. This government has spent 27 billion more pounds of oil at the end of the year than it thought was absolutely necessary at the beginning of the year. Still looking a little brighter in the Norwegian economy, it has not completely gone ‘on the doll’. Then there's a reason to ask: why has this happened? The main reason for this is that the central bank is too late, but now the interest rate has fallen. That's what worked. After all, it is not the so-called tight fiscal policy that has been important. I just want to remind you that there is 55 billion kroner in the aftermath of refurbishment of Norwegian schools. It would make sense to do so now that we have free capacity for economic and vacant building workers, many are now going on a day-to-day basis or are licensed. There is a lack of IT skills in school. It would have been much better to have the young, well-trained IT consultants at work at school than they would have gone out of work. It would have been good both for the children and for them. Because it's right, as the Council of State now says, it's very harmful when you fall out of work, and you don't get the skills that it's up to you. Then the representative of Skovholt Gitmark says that the government has not been passive. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, They have been very active in cutting, especially with regard to the disabled. Now the Council of State says that a new commitment has been made. It's all right, but what about practice? Where in the state business are people with disabilities now going to get a job? There are jobs with high skills The Government and the Workers' Party now have cut the opportunity to receive training. SV knows that there are a lot of people with disabilities who can, if they get the opportunity. That possibility is now very limited. What municipalities will be able to afford to employ disabled people, when they are already so stressed that the working environment is such that people get sick from working there? I'm just asking. It must be allowed to ask when you have a goal of getting a job for people with disabilities. Somewhere they have to work. It's tough in private business a day. It's equally tough in public.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e87	Let me first take hold of the assumption I received from the representative Giske regarding the loss of natural resource tax for the municipality of Tidal. You could say that it is regrettable that we are not in the majority opinion, so I could have been both short and concise in my statement. This matter is a little problematic, but one thing is quite clear. There is no disagreement that the heart of the matter is that there is disagreement between the equality authorities about who is going to pay this tax – that is the problem. There is no disagreement that according to the law, Tidal municipality is entitled to this tax. Therefore, it would also be reasonable for the Ministry of Finance, or the Government, to find an amicable arrangement with the municipality of Tidal, without, of course, meaning that we should use a discretionary spot. It becomes unreasonable for other municipalities to be charged with the wrong committed against Tidal Municipality. I hope it will be possible for the Government to find these funds under other items. It's sad if you don't come up with an amicable arrangement here, and the Storting will have to make their own proposals to give justice to the municipality of Tidal. Then I will again challenge the Council of State in relation to what both the undersigned and the representative Meltveit Kleppa called for in the main posts today. This concerns the majority comment on page 23. Reference is made to the four municipalities that have reported errors, and as such have not received the legitimate payments in relation to those with mental retardation. If the Council of State had already been able to signal clearly and clearly that these four municipalities should also have compensated for the remaining loss, it would have cleaned up a little. Then I will also – just to get the card down on the debate – be allowed to give a signal that in my main post I stated that we would vote against the V of the setting, which would otherwise be IV. This is not necessary, of course, because the Progress Party must vote against the framework. I would also like to signal that the Progress Party wishes to vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the non-framework proposal No. 13, where appropriate, proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Advance Party, had to fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e100	State Council Solberg was uncertain as to how to interpret three proposals for decisions in the resolution. So let me clear it up. Firstly, in the case of asylum recipients, the majority would like to have a case before the Committee. We thought we would then have an entirely different opportunity to deal with that question, than we would get from a message in the revised version. Second, reception of competences: in it, we add reception where they have the competence to create security for both mentally ill and other residents, for those who add themselves and for the environment. The third question concerned the organization of the work. That's where I think the Council of State misunderstands. It is a proposal for a general new fixed-rate work organisation with enhanced training. Then there have been various questions to the Central Party in the debate. First, the question from the Right – the comparison between 1998 and 2004. The point of the Centre Party is that there is consistency between the tasks that the municipalities have and the resources that are at their disposal. We record that in two years the local government sector has gained weight with its potential of 12.8 billion kroner. The Prom said that the Center Party is far too fond of all that is happening in the municipalities! I think it is amazing that the Progress Party has discovered all the good that is happening in the municipalities around. That's why the Center Party believes that the municipalities are the best ones to solve the challenges locally, whether we talk about school or care. If the Progress Party has come up with better thoughts, and not howls that the state is going to solve everything, it's very good. The left was swirling over the centre party's comments. It seems to me that the Left does not fully follow what their people do in government – supports Right when it comes to putting out competition and changing municipal structures. So the Christian People's Party called for a value debate, and they actually also called for a cheerleader from the Center Party. So it's the Christian People's Party that is involved in reducing the number of quota refugees to half, which is taking away Norwegian training from many who need it for a good integration process, which is presenting an action plan against poverty that sick and unemployed people have to pay and which makes the differences increase in this country. Let me say: the day that the Christian People's Party is faced with the fact that those who currently charge tax-free dividends are other than the local entrepreneurs who invested in their own businesses and in the local environment, the day that the Christian People's Party is in favour of taxing dividends on shares, and is also in favour of a multi-year escalation plan for the municipal sector, so that we can secure school and care, then there should be no shortage of cheers from the Senter party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e121	The leader of the Party for Progress and the vice-chairman of the Committee, Per Sandberg, asked a question to the Minister for Municipalities that she has so far chosen not to answer. I would therefore like to repeat the question, which I understand has also been asked earlier in the debate. There is a majority comment on page 23 in the vote, which concerns an error message from four municipalities about the number of mentally retarded people for whom they should have reimbursement or payment from the state. Very familiar, there is a de minimis error. It is the wrong person who has signed an otherwise correct application. These payments are within the framework of the 2004 State budget, because it is not possible to budget for it being the wrong person to sign a properly completed formal form. So the money has to be there. The government has said that it will first pay 50 pst. and later possibly 80 pst. Of this, but not 100 pst., I have been told. In fact, you have to punish mentally retarded people in a municipality because you have done a relatively small cut with a formal signature in the administration. There is a majority in the Committee, and thus in the Stortinget – none of the parties in the majority opinion, has had anyone who has said that they disagree with their party – asking the Ministry to ensure that 100 psts are given. compensation, as intended. Early in the period, I asked Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik a question about how the Government would deal with majority remarks. He expressed a clear position on the part of the Government: where there was a majority in the Storting that expressed something, and it did not go beyond the budgetary framework – what it cannot do here – one would be prepared to follow it. I would like to have a confirmation from the Minister of State that she will give the necessary instructions to her in respect of her duties, so that a bureaucratic, de minimis error does not result in minor transfers to these four municipalities, and that, therefore, the majority of the population in this case will be respected. I ask the Mayor to confirm that this majority comment will be implemented in practice, so that the uncertainty of these four municipalities is eliminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e132	Just a few brief comments on three specific issues at the end of the debate. Firstly, I refer to Mr Kleppa's speech on clarifying the understanding of the comments of a majority, not only in the Committee, but in the Chamber, on the area of immigration, including the issue of grievances, where there is a unified understanding of what the representative Mr Kleppa has done here. Secondly, I refer to the post of the representative Carl I. Hagen about these four municipalities that have reported errors regarding the mentally impaired. Here the majority of the committee, which is also here the majority in the Chamber, is not to be misunderstood. That's a very clear observation that says it should be 100 pst. compensation. Thirdly, I refer to the statements by the representatives Giske and Sandberg, who made it clear that the Progress Party joined the comment that is in the attitude of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party regarding the natural resource tax for Tidal. I find it difficult to understand that there would be major problems in finding a reasonable solution for the municipality. It is fully possible to offset the bag item for tax revenue. Here it depends on a willingness of the Ministry of Finance to find a solution. Following the intervention by the representative Per Sandberg, it is clear that a majority in the Chamber requests such clarification. I assume that the Government follows up the will expressed here by the majority of the Storting, in all these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e143	It is with a little surprise that I find that Stortinget has started to deal with tax disputes directly in a position. I want to draw attention to the fact that it is relatively unusual. Otherwise, it is not my constitutional responsibility to answer that part of it. In the case of decisions taken by the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Finance must be contacted. So this is a complaint case that has gone that way, and it is one of the first times I have experienced that the Stortinget is actually dealing with a case in plenary, without any case preparation, so to speak, how to resolve a case that would otherwise have gone before the court. From the Ministry of Local Affairs, we have made it possible, through judgement, to give Tidal the opportunity to deal with the liquidity problem that the decisions in the law have caused, and have said that they must apply to us. We've had meetings with them within what's the normal way of treating municipalities, which for various reasons, whether it's because of tax authorities or anything else, has suddenly become the result of income failure, as the municipality of Tidal has. So the Ministry of Local Affairs has had an open mind. In case of discretionary judgements here, we're responsible for it. I'm a little surprised that you think you can sit on all the skills to cut through a tax case right in the hall in Stortinget. With regard to the issue of the four municipalities, or five municipalities – as far as I have an overview of now – I have been in Stortinget for so long that I know what a majority comment means. But I want to say a little bit about the background. It is not that there is only one mistake that has been made. The system for dealing with the reporting of people with disabilities is first such as reporting, and then there are legal requirements for it. So a number of municipalities are being checked, because we're going to have control of the money paid by the state. Then it turns out that some of the municipalities have not had evidence that these mentally retarded people are actually mentally retarded. Then these audit reports are sent from the audit to the municipality, where the error has not been corrected. In addition, a circular is sent, where all the figures are reported, at the end of August, where the same municipalities have had the opportunity to correct errors in their figures. So it hasn't just been one mistake. There have been two complaints before this has been decided. This is included as a criterion for all money allocation. All the money allocated to this is now distributed to other municipalities. That means that the only way we can now go in and do something about it, if we're not going to take a new redistribution of money between municipalities on the ordinary allocations, is to go in and do something in terms of judgement. I want to remind you that we have been shy. In this case, the former governments have not provided any compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e155	The central party's representative has set up a number of arrangements for its possible appeal. It does not help with a historically large increase in the municipal economy, it does not help with the relocation of state jobs, it does not help to secure heavy users, it does not help with the poverty package, and it does not help at all. We have to tax dividends harder than interest, which is a kind of dividend, and so move all of Norwegian venture capital into the banks, and I'm going to tell you: it doesn't help founders who have a good idea, but no creditworthiness. I thought the centre party should be happy a little bit now towards Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e160	I interpreted the last post of the Council of State as very positive in relation to the four municipalities, that they would then have their compensation. But what I primarily wanted to speak for was a little bit surprising that the Council of State had in relation to the municipality of Tidal. I do not see that the comment that the Progress Party has agreed to regarding Tidal has something to do with assessing fiscal aspects. What we're asking for is that the government corrects an unreasonable error that has been committed against the municipality of Tidal. We could have gone into the debate on what has happened here before, but the point is that the issue of who is liable for tax has been going on for so long that Tidal has become the victim. There is no doubt that the municipality of Tidal, whoever is required to be responsible for the tax in this case, must receive their income. So because you haven't come up with a decision, Tidal has become the losing party. And that's what we're asking the Government to rectify through a reasonable arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e167	It is undoubtedly important what financial resources we use to achieve successful integration into our society, and not least how we use these resources. SV does not conceal that we are not impressed with the budget as it is going to be adopted. In the budget, one does not intrude that there are over 100,000 job seekers without permanent work in the country, and unemployment is much greater among minorities than among the majority. There are no clear and accurate measures to reduce unemployment. The same applies to language training. We do not take into account the fact that there are many people coming from EEA countries to the country next year, and that they need language training and social education in Norway to be integrated into society. Once I'm in the pulpit, I want to say that the effect of all economic efforts can be quickly destroyed unless the social actors are aware of how we conduct the debate in this area. Premises must know that every word is involved in determining whether the debate is constructive. In this context, it can be safely said that the U.S. Council of State Erna Solberg's play has recently been clearly unlucky. For example, she said to the Evening Post a few weeks ago that Muslims must start contributing in this society, understanding that they do not. This is not a lucky way to hold the debate. A few days after ‘joyd’ she nicely entered a highly dubious report in the newspaper, where she agreed to enumerate an impression that was misguided. It was said that there was a congregation that uses marriage certificates from abroad. It's rejected. I very much agree with the Council of State in its content, that we should clear up the conditions that we believe are questionable and that limit women's – that is, any religion – rights. But I very much disagree with the Council of State in the way this debate is now gradually being debated, and I am very much in doubt if it gives us the opportunity to clear up the misunderstandings that are already there. Our efforts are to help clear up the misunderstandings, not create more, as I feel that the Council of State has been involved lately.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e176	The President does not want to repeat the request he made when the meeting started, but asks each representative to think about what remains to be debated during the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e179	Just a brief comment in relation to the Solberg State Council in relation to Tidal. Now the representative Sandberg gave a completely correct presentation of the matter, namely a dispute between the state and the municipality of Tidal. The tax object Trondheim Energieverk is not a matter of that dispute. They have paid their taxes, but that money has ended up with the state instead of the municipality. I agree that this matter should be unnecessary to address the Stortinget. That is quite correct, the State Council of Solberg says that it should have been resolved a long time ago in an amicable way between the Ministry of Finance and the municipality in question. That's why I hope the government takes note that there's a majority here saying that it has to happen, so we don't have to deal with this matter several times here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e184	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e187	First of all, I should just like to say that I made these three proposals on behalf of the majority of the committee. Then I'm glad that the Council of State has confirmed what everyone knows she should know from before, exactly what a plural note means. Then I'll put the search light on a theme that I skipped in my post. Governments themselves were concerned with refugee, immigration and integration issues in much of their contributions. It's a comitology where one thinks it's urgent with an additional social welfare scheme for people with too short housing in Norway to have set up full social security rights, and we hope that this matter will come to the Stortinget quickly, because it's also about settlement. Then I am calling for the follow-up of sub-positions and the labour reserve that we have in the municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e196	I do not intend to go further into the municipality of Tidal, since it is not a matter for the undersigned, nor a matter under my constitutional responsibility, other than that we have made ourselves open to help Tidal if there are liquidity problems associated with the very decision that is made. But it is quite surprising, in my view, when there have been legal boundaries as to what responsibility lies there, that such a case is as quick and simple, as a single case, in a discussion directly in the Stortinget. I think that the boundary here between legislative and executive powers becomes a little bit weird if any case can be appealed in and not prepared for case better than in a comment in the position of the municipal committee. So the questions that Akhtar Chaudhry raises. First of all, I do not recognize myself in any of what he thought I should have said. I've been very concerned that the Muslim communities are going to contribute to the Norwegian community in order to mitigate the conflicts that the second generation or first-generation Nordics are actually experiencing between their cultural background, their parents and the Norwegian society. And what I've said about it is that then you also have to look at who is the tone of the Muslim communities, and what knowledge they have of the Norwegian community. I see that as a challenge, as this big business has discussed to a considerable extent in the past, and which is also an important part of dampening these kinds of statements. I feel more that someone has wanted to interpret what I have said than actually having heard what I have said. When it comes to the question of the possibility of giving women equal divorce rights in Muslim marriage papers, I have to say that when it comes up as a problem, I have said that I think it's going to be very wrong if it has happened, not least because I'm trying to manage a roll-call decision that has changed marriage law in this area, where it's a burden, and where we've currently been hearing a case about limiting family reunification – not because we've initiated it, but because a unanimous increase has initiated these matters. And it's clear that if you don't want us to have legislation in these areas, but try to get good solutions that will take care of the intentions that we have for women, regardless of religion, to have the opportunity to get a divorce and have equal rights, then maybe the best way to do this is to show positive commitment and activity from the Muslim communities themselves. In this way, I think it is a sad step backwards that it is reported that the type of deletion of information in the marriage contracts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e205	For its part, the President would say that it is the committees which are the preparatory body of the Grand Duchy, and the matters which have been dealt with and prepared for consideration in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg by a committee, must, for the Grand Duchy of Great Britain, be deemed to have been an end to proceedings. Then the president will say that the more intense he encourages people to think, the more people are on the list of speakers, so maybe the president should keep quiet. Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e212	Let me first join the first part of the President's emphasis on the fact that, of course, the Storting Committees are doing their work in a serious way. The councils doubted the relationship between magnification and government. Let me remind you that the Storting also supervises the Government. The thing about Tidal is very special. That is why a majority of the Committee has taken note of it. I note that a majority in the Grand Duchy has stood behind this remark, and I just remind you of the following, where the majority says that: ‘calls for the case to be reviewed with a view to reaching a solution acceptable to the municipality of Tidal, and for closer consideration to be given to the cases in the municipality's 2005 proposal’. It is to the extent that the Storting is not concerned with how to limit the work between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Local Government, and the distribution here, but I assume that the Government in general is dealing with the matter in line with the wishes of the Storting, and that one comes back and informs the Storing in the municipal proposition, as requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e224	I'll be very brief, I just want to sign out the question from Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa about part-time. It is true, as State Council Solberg had in the past, that the Government has set up a party-based selection to look at all aspects of the involuntary part-time issue. We must remember that parttime is a very good opportunity for many workers in Norway. At the same time, there is no doubt that both the labour force survey and other studies show that there are a large number of part-time workers who want to break more jobs. The reasons why these do not get major job breaks are many and complex. From the planning of turns to the practice and attitudes of the local councillor, to the rules on overtime pay and to the law on different types of jobs. The selection will take care of all of these things, and we'll come back to the question on the basis of this. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the Labour Law Committee also looks at the legal aspects of both the regulation of part-time work and possible legal closures for a larger element of full-time work in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e232	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1340]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e248	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1351]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e266	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 1352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e284	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 1352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e302	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e318	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e325	You may expect this to be a short debate. In this case, the Ministry of Labour and Administrative Affairs proposes changes in the 2003 commitments in the field of Aetat, labour market measures, waiting pay, daily pay, state guarantee for the pay claims in the event of bankruptcy and payments for professional rights. Accounting is much less remarkable than budget, but it also reveals evolution, and it shows that reality has been different than we planned. A joint committee is behind the proposed changes, but points to some aspects that have emerged during the committee's proceedings. The contribution to the right of re-employment is reduced by 54 million. kr, and a co-conspirator's committee emphasises that the right to return to work is an important tool for getting people back to work. The Committee points out that the government of Stoltenberg stepped up the requirement that reintroduction be attempted before the provision of a disability pension. This line is followed up by the Cooperation Manager. It is important that the penetration of people in return is good, and that the most possible of those who have finished coming back to work. For this reason, the Committee was concerned about the reductions in the budget for this purpose, but the reason for the reduction is not that there is less on reintroduction than in the previous year, on the contrary. The growth in the number of returnees in the first 10 months of 2003 is 7.5 pst. If you put it in numbers, there's a growth from 2002 to 2003 of $1150 million. kr. The reduction is therefore not due to the fact that there is less reintroduction, but to the fact that the growth has been slightly less than what was originally used in budgetary management. As spokesman for the case, I would also like to mention that the majority of the committee, the Labour Party, SV and the Center Party, indicate that the organisation initiative under the auspices of Aetat is an important part of the commitment agreement for a more inclusive working life. We are not in disagreement about this. The loan was made at the end of June 2003 and with the permission of the Employment Act, the Ministry of Labour and Administration provided 50 million. NOK at disposal. Based on developments so far this year, a smaller consumption of 9 million is expected. kr, which in this proposition is transferred to the sick pay chapter. Of course, the organised work system is still important in order to allow health problems to be added back to work. In addition, the Committee does not have any comments or objections to agreeing with the proposed changes in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e346	It is the organisation grant scheme, which is an important part of the intention agreement for a more inclusive working life, which is why I take the floor in this matter. So it was known in May that the money, which was one of the most important tools for the purpose of the agreement, was spent. It was a pleasure, because it showed that this worked. But what does the Government do? About at the same time, when they are going to present the revised national budget, they tell the Storting that here we lack money for some of the core tasks of what we are now doing, namely getting sick and disabled people back into work? No, no, no. What they're doing is they're putting an end to this, and then they're making an internal money move in the department and taking money from the disabled, from what the Stortinget has put away to the disabled, as if there were less need for money for the disabled this year, when we know that there are 20,000 more of them now at the end of the year without a job. We believe this in SV and a majority in Stortinget is critical. So there is nothing in the situation that would indicate such a course of action. It would have been quite possible for the Government in the revised national budget to come to the Stortinget and get the necessary funds, without that money having been taken from the disabled. We in SV believe that this clearly shows that the Government does not take the work on the commitment agreement seriously. This caused great unrest this summer. Of course, it is good that you eventually got some money in place, but they came from the wrong place. It should have been somewhere else to pick up that money than with the disabled. In addition to that, we have seen in this case how much the daily allowance is increasing. There is more to it in a matter to be dealt with in Stortinget later this week. It should also lead to a faster bet on activities that could get people to work, rather than passive payments for day money.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e359	I just think it is right to correct the wrong impression given by the representative Andersen and the majority of the committee on the matter of organising grants. What is clear is that the organisation grant scheme was very successful. This was a very good way to ensure that people with reduced working capacity could maintain or have a link with the working life. The money that was granted was used up. At the same time, we saw that, under the heading of measures for job-seekers with disabilities, we could have achieved the measured figures we had set for the size of the population, with less money than what was granted. We then believed – and still believe – that as a common policy to help people with disabilities in relation to the labour market, it had to be right both to ensure that at least as many people as planned would be involved in labour market measures, while at the same time helping more people actually get or keep a link to the job. As I said earlier in the Chamber here today: the main problem for most people with disabilities is not getting the necessary training. It's having contact with the workplace. This is where the organization must take place. That's where you have to accept that disabled people have a place. That's where we have to overcome all the traditional barriers that make disabled people with all the qualifications that are needed do not normally get away with. That is why we thought it was right to give priority to business organisation, given that we could achieve at the same time the target figure that the size had set for the number of people who would be involved in labour market measures in the Special Labour Market Action Group.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e368	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e371	There is no incorrect presentation of the case that has been given. What the majority here are concerned with is that the government should inform the Storting when such a major issue lacks money. The Council of State said that the target figures had been reached for the disabled. So there's 20,000 more out of work now than it was last year. I have never heard that the Storting has said that it is a measure. Here there had been a majority on the Stortinget who had supported the Council of State in getting more money to make sure that the agreement of intent could work as it was supposed, namely that it would be fewer and not more unemployed when the year was over. In addition, there is also a lack of jobs in the social security system, which is not the responsibility of this Council of State, which was part of the agreement on inclusive working life, which is also not in place. There are many pieces that are missing here, and the handling of this case shows what we feared, namely that the government is more concerned with saving money than getting the disabled to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e378	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e394	In the 2004 State Budget, the Government gives a reference to the State Budget Committee’s investigation, which has received considerable attention from the Committee in this setting. The Progress Party is of the opinion that what the Government proposes in the budget is going in the right direction. We agree, of course, with all the suggestions made by the Government, but we wish you could go a little further. The introduction of an accruals principle is an important step. We believe that the same principles should apply also to the state accounts and the state budget. It should at least be such that a change of direction will change the direction focus from payments to costs, which contribute more to making resource consumption visible, thereby also contributing to a more efficient use of resources. One aspect pointed out in the public inquiry was that if the decision is to change the principles of leadership, a reform for municipal administration should also be considered. It is not very easy to see that the government has spent some particular time on that issue in its reference to Stortinget. The last time the accounting rules for the municipal sector were revised, the changes were limited by the use of the cash principle by the state. In the light of the assessment of the Progress Party, there is now a better basis for the assessment of the municipal sector in relation to the conversion of accounting rules. This means more harmonisation of accounting rules between the State, local and private sectors, which should provide greater and better comparability. Another issue that has been discussed in detail by the State Budget Committee is multiannual budgets. In the case of multiannual budgets, there is an issue that should have been addressed to a significantly greater extent by the size of the budget. The Progress Party, together with a minority in the Committee, promotes a proposal for a sample to be set up in the Grand Duchy, which spends a little more time evaluating all the matters, all the issues raised by the State Budget Committee through this major investigation. We believe it would be significantly more sound, and not least interesting, for the Storting to have not only accounting policies assessed in such a way, but also the possibility of going more or less to multi-annual budgets in areas where appropriate. You can imagine a lot of ways to do this, and a lot of ways you could try out projects. Anyway, at least it's our wish that a sample be put down in Stortinget that looks closer to it. There may be a lot of talk about it, and of course there might be a lot of talk about it. But through a long, hectic budgetary procedure, where there are a huge number of issues to be resolved, we think it would have been much wiser if the Stortinge had spent some more time on such a comprehensive investigation as the State Budget Committee has presented here. We also know that there are varying practices around in some other countries, both in terms of accounting policies, and in terms of multiannual budgets. It might have been interesting to have spent some more time. My claim is at least that there is a lot of reason why we often end up not implementing decisions of this hall. For example, we have four-year plans for the Defence Framework. We come up with four-year plans and plans to step up transport budgets. At the same time, we are in the situation that when we are going to adopt the budgets, decisions end up being balancing items, exactly the same decisions that this room took just a few months before. It's a management problem. It creates uncertainty, unforeseeability and uncertainty for those who should be able to expect that the type of agreement, which will cover three-four-five years, will be held. That's why it would make sense to spend a little more time on this, to blink out areas where it would obviously make sense to budget for a longer period of time, and stick to it. All of those principles should be discussed in a slightly different context than when we have to be squeezed about the same heads within a budgetary balance sheet. It would, I think, contribute to strengthening the reputation of the State budget. It would help to strengthen what we are all concerned with, no matter what debate forums we are, namely our ability to be predictable when we budget. I'm not going to draw this very much anymore, knowing that there's no majority in the committee to put down such a sample. I would nevertheless like to address the proposal that the minority is making. In addition to that, I would just like to refer to the other comments of the Advance Party and also to the other minority proposals we have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e413	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e416	Like the chairman of the Committee, I would also like to make some comments on the follow-up to the State Budget Committee's investigation. In the comment and the review of this case given in the setting, the Workers' Party and the government parties are very much in line. In the case of the State budget and the state accounts today, it is reported as known on a cash basis. The recommendations of the State Budget Committee are to move to the principle of accruals. If we look at the rationale of the sample to recommend the use of the accruals principle, it is that this principle in many ways – one might say – makes the costs of state activity more visible than the current cash principle. The accruals principle provides a better overview of the country’s assets and liabilities than current capital accounts. The accounting carried out according to the accruals principle will, of course, provide a basis for assessing costs against activities and products. We think it's good, too. It is also of great importance that the State should be able to pursue an active fiscal policy and that this should be done best if the budget decision of the Storting is linked to the cash flows. That is why we agree with the Government that the budget decision of the Storting should continue to be based on the cash principle. We believe that an increased focus on the use of resources in the public sector is desirable and that this is an argument for introducing the accruals principle. If we take an example in the proportion of older people in the population, which will increase strongly by 2020, the cost of pensions and care services will also increase sharply over that period. Of course, the increase we see in this sector increases the need for ever-increasing improvements and efficiency improvements in the public sector. The principle of accruals should first be introduced in areas where it is most readily available. That is, there is a change in the information that can be used to make important decisions about how to operate the business in the future. The principle should therefore be introduced in a step-by-step manner, in our view, and the benefits of the conversion should be considered in the course of the process. The State uses a variety of forms of organisation for its activities, from administrative bodies to public limited liability companies. These establishments have different opportunities to make decisions on, inter alia: investments, maintenance and operation. For these, the accruals principle will provide better information as a basis for some of the decisions, including: on investments. It is therefore appropriate that a conversion to the accruals principle be considered together with any changes in the form of connection, financing, delegation of decision-making authority, or other changes to our management system. I do not overlook the fact that, in the long term, there may be large cost savings in liquidating schemes that are no longer needed, or reforming them, so that they become more accurate in relation to the problems they would initially have to solve. However, this is a type of information that does not result from more focus on cost-effectiveness, or from changing to the accruals principle. It is important to have a long-term perspective in the preparation of a government budget. Such long-termity is absolutely necessary to prevent problems that may grow large over a certain period of time. This could be done, for example, by: to prepare for major demographic changes, which I had in the past, such as several older people and labour shortages, and to implement reforms requiring systematic investment over time. However, I would like to stress that while one of the objectives of long-term budgeting is to ensure control of the development of public expenditure and deficits in the budget balance sheet, the result can easily be the opposite. I would like to point out that for all sectors it will be an advantage to be covered by a rapprochement plan or a decision that will automatically prioritise the sector in the budget of the year, and that, as a writer in the suspension, one will not be able to escape the annual ‘closing of the crowns’ if decisions with budgetary implications are formally opened up to a greater extent. However, I do not hide the importance of getting a good overview of many areas of fiscal policy, both in terms of growth in expenditure, different arrangements to be adopted, etc., and in terms of looking at the full-year impact of major measures on the income or expenditure side, which are implemented in a stronger way during the financial year. The benefit of seeing the consequences of decisions taken over several years is also that it motivates to propose increased expenditure for one financial year which will result in reduced expenditure or increased revenue in the years ahead. One example of an increased cost is action for a more inclusive working life. If the measures are successful, it will reduce expenditure, for example: Manufacture from materials of any heading, except that of the product, provided that the value of the products used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product Another example is that the increased use of resources to control tax and tax revenues over time will result in a lower tax base and thus an increase in income. The Presidency of the Grand Duchy must, in our view, look at the Storting's own procedures in order to deal with proposals that may have budgetary implications beyond the financial year. One way to do this may be for the Scientific Committees of the Grand Duchy to submit such proposals to the Financial Committee at its hearing, which assess these proposals in relation to the overall commitments over the following years. This requires the Stortinget to keep an overview of all decisions with implications for the State budget, both in the financial year and in subsequent years. I will deal with the proposals where the Labour Party is a co-sponsor. I want to draw attention to one of these proposals in particular. This applies to the Small Boat Register. The small boat register is, in many cases, a trifle one, but there has been a repetition in the Stortinget for many years. A reorganization of the Small Boat Register is now proposed. I'd like to ask, now leave it in Fredrikstad, where it is, for a few more years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e447	The representative of Nordtun has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e450	Let me say that I agree with the heart of the representative Nordtun that now it must be over with this nonsense around the Small Boat Register. Leave it in Fredrikstad, and let it live its life there. In every case, one must not find a reason to put off competition. This is actually run safely and well by a public office. What I'm going to spend most of the time in this relatively short article is talking about the same State Budget Committee that both the Committee's chairman and the Workers' Party spokesman have been talking about. What is at the heart of this, if one ignores the difficult words often associated with such situations, is how to facilitate longer-term thinking, long-term budgeting, and how to facilitate the fact that over many years the consequences of the decisions taken here — both for good and for bad. This does not mean, as we see it, or does it want, that there should be commitments beyond each financial year, but that the consequences of the Storting decision should be made more clearly. The consequence is, in our opinion, that it will be easier to appear both as a whole and precisely, both in the budget as a whole, and also for each case being dealt with. It will provide the basis for, we believe, a better understanding, a better understanding and a better basis for the economic policy pursued here in the house, and not least a policy that is sustainable over time. I think it's relatively obvious to most people that most of the decisions that are taken here are taken with a long-term nature in them. This means that the consequences are for each financial year, but of course the consequences are more long-term than they were. But it is important to think through what this will be like, also in order to accommodate a little of what is said to be a counter-representation to the use of periodicisation as a principle, that the Stortning will, of course, make budgetary decisions every year. If you think about all the areas in which it is possible to imagine measuring economic impact, for example. in the longer term than just the decision to grant it, it is very clear that this may have a lot to do with it. Take health as an example. A person may think through what appropriations for health may or may not entail. One can think through what health can mean by saved costs in the next round, by having a healthier population, less health care, less disability. So there's a lot of ways to think about budgets, which can be very economical. Or take the large-scale decision that we have made on kindergarten development and lower kindergarten prices in Norway. If the Stortinget had taken a decision on this for each year and made some plans in the future, it would have kind of started a periodicational approach in that decision, and it would have been reasonable and sensible for the Stortinget to also think of kindergarten development in a long-term context and also consider what benefits this brings to society. Take unemployment as another example of a social field where long-term thinking is important. That means you have the opportunity to think both of economic gain and of human gain. This means that thinking prevention — which often appears almost hopeless in the context of collapse — that appears initially as a cost, perhaps in the longer term, may appear as an income, or at least a minor expense, simply by doing something wise. What is often called prevention in terms of health can be thought to be transferred to many other areas of society, which will provide less expense a little longer in time. This kind of thinking is almost impossible to achieve, because it focuses on the budget balance, which becomes a sacred line you shouldn't move over. That means that in the moment you want to bet on something, you have to bet less on something else. A long-termity in that kind of thinking I think would have been of great favor to the Storting and to the Großing's reputation. Most of us actually think this way in everyday life, that if we don't put a little bit of space on our houses in between, the value of the house will be reduced. That means we paint a little bit extra and we kiss a little bit extra, both because we enjoy it ourselves, and also because the value of the house should not be degraded. If you look at the budget work as a house that's deteriorating, this could be a way to think about it in the long term, because we're going to live in this house for many, many years. – This was not a defense for the ‘Norwegian House’, but an attempt to create an image of how long-termity can actually mean economic savings and profits. We want a step-by-step implementation of these principles. We think it might be wise that we think completely from this assessment, and I think it would also be wise that the Storting had thought through how we want to go on. A selection under Stortinget, on which we are co-sponsored, could have been reasonable. I record that there is no majority for this, but I seemed to register some thoughts in the posts of the representative Nordtun about how he perceived that the Presidency would go further in the proceedings here in the house of this, and possibly play back to both the finance committee and other committees. If this were a kind of modified proposal of what we want, it would be wise. I hope at least that I understood the representative Nordtun right in that way. Let me just mention a few other factors in the setting that it is important to pay attention to. We have made a redisposal from the Ministry of Finance to strengthen the fight against black work. This is a very important and central area. We find it hard to understand why the majority do not want to address this to a greater extent. The scope of black work is very large, and it could be self-financing if the tariff rate and tax rate were strengthened. The small boat register was briefly mentioned. Let me also address all the proposals on 90 posts – the House Bank, the Loan Fund and many other important areas in which we have our own proposals. Here, too, is what is called the 'Ryan Fund', the 400 million of which are allocated to the Regional Fund today. That is very satisfied with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e476	The representative of Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e479	The Central Party proposes to increase the budget by 25 million for the next year. kr to hire more inspectors. The background is the constant reports on the enormous scale of the black economy. We're concerned about the state's income loss of a two-digit billion dollars, the impact of infection when so few are detected and punished, and the impossible situation that arises for those who are legally operating in the industries most affected. The background is also requests from employees in the tax system. They tell us about a difficult everyday life for those who are going to control, because of large downhaulings. Over the period 1995-2002, 800 annual works have disappeared from the Equations Offices and County Tax Offices. NTL Tax, which organises 55 pst. by the employees of the tax administration, point out that tight budgets threaten the closure of many branch offices in the districts. As a natural consequence, lack of control capacity means that controls both in the enterprises and in the reports that come in need to be limited. Researchers Pape and Reichborn have calculated that an additional control year in the tax base is worth 4.6 million. kr. In addition to the directly increased revenues resulting from the discovery of tax evasions, the effect of the behaviour of taxpayers is altered when those who cheat are taken. I want people's tax morals to be strengthened. It happens by means of increased controls. NTL-Tax has also pointed out that the benefit of developing and deploying online control services can be significantly overestimated. I am disappointed with the passive attitude of the Minister of Finance and the Government, which emerges from the answers given to questions about the fight against the black economy. The government should accept with open arms any offer to increase the income of society and raise the tax morale by enabling the tax rate to perform its job well enough. In the context of the suspension of the State Budget Committee, the Central Party has proposed to amend the budgeting procedures so that the major benefits of prevention can be better taken into account than at present. There are many areas in which we know that appropriations today provide significant savings and improvements both for society and for individuals in the long term, but where annual and strict focus on each budget area puts effective stoppages in order to give priority to prevention. Let me mention the prevention of road accidents as an example. They cost us 25 billion a year today as well as human suffering and pain. According to the Road Directorate, one death in traffic costs 21 million. kr, an average personal injury of 1,8 million. kr. Safety Traffic says road lighting reduces the number of fatal accidents in the dark by 65 pst. Midpoints on the four-field road reduce the probability of being killed by 40 pst. A continuous walking and cycling network in Norwegian cities has a social benefit that is at least four to five times higher than the cost. Nevertheless, in many countries it could take 100 years before the need for walking and cycling roads is met. It tells us a little about the lack of consideration for prevention. The centre party believes that society cannot afford not to think prevention in a much more offensive and serious way than today. We need to get away from party speeches and move on to practical action in order to contribute effectively to reducing accidents, health damage, environmental damage and violence. We have to think in the long term and across sector boundaries when budgeting. We even have to be able to see the whole social benefits of what we're doing, and what's not. That is what our proposal is being presented today, adding up. The centre party is pleased that we are now having a discussion about the possibilities for longer-term budgeting in general. Budgetary decisions are very important to many, not least business. Stability and predictability must therefore be pursued. The centre party is concerned that we are slowing down and not introducing rules that involve increased red tape, and systems that are becoming more resource-intensive. It is therefore positive that there is a broad consensus that budgetary decisions should continue to be based on the cash principle. The Central Party has pointed out that current budgetary practices in the Storting are unnecessarily limited by the practice of the one-year rule of action and the strict division of budgetary frameworks in the budget of the Trade Committees. The Central Party believes that fiscal policy needs to have a new overall objective, namely to stimulate the increased use of available labour reserves. When the labour force is estimated to have 14 times the value of its oil wealth, it should of course be provided in each national budget with an overview of the available reserves and measures aimed at allowing all who will participate in the value added, on the basis of their assumptions for participation. The centre party believes that society here has enormous potential for profit, and that it will be absolutely necessary to extract these gains, based on the forecasts available for age distribution over the next decade, and the increased pension obligations. I'll be able to put forward the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e507	The representative Morten Lund has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e510	In the 2005 Yellow Paper, the Storting will be made visible, through overall projections of budget expenditure and revenue for three years in the future, some of these economic consequences. If you like them or not, I'm not going to comment at this point, but let me say it so that it hasn't lacked budgetary projections of decisions The Storting has wanted to grasp. I remember last time the debate on G-regulation in the public sector. It did not lack long-term economic projections of the decisions, but it did not help anything. In the fall, the Pension Commission was due to come in, but it is due to come in just over the new year. In the position of the Pension Commission, there is every reason to believe that long-term economic projections will be sufficient, which in itself would say a lot about the lack of budgetary space in the coming years. If it will make any impression, I don't know, but there is no lack of such projections. After all, the State Budget Committee has considered this quite carefully. It was a sample set up by the previous government — a broad range of both professional and political. It has assessed such issues and looked at experience from other countries as well. In particular, there has been some use of binding budgetary frameworks for a period in the future, three to four years, such as: have in Sweden? I guess the answer is, and it says in the setting, that it hasn't worked very well. The framework is not kept, and techniques are also used to avoid them, including: Estimates of regular expenditure — that is to say, regular expenditure, which undermines the overall priorities that follow. However, it should not be lacking in such projections if the Stortinget wants it – and I understand that many want it – without such projections being binding. Instead of providing a long-term program for the next period, the government will provide a message in addition to the Tax Committee's setting, the Pension Commission's setting as a message, and there will be many projections. In addition, a comprehensive economic perspective analysis will be provided for a longer period. In such a perspective analysis, you will see the freedom of action you have in the years to come. There will be projections that can provide the basis for realistic policy programming during the remaining period. Finally, I just have to say that I am surprised at one thing: those who are most strongly calling for a binding framework for the future should, of course, consider the consequences it has for fiscal policy. For those who strongly advocate the use of fiscal policies for short-term management, it should be extremely careful with long-term binding frameworks. In fact, economic trends may change over a three- or four-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e524	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1353]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e538	In my statement, I would like to place the emphasis on Norway's overall efforts in Afghanistan and Iraq. But I also want to take this opportunity to explain the balances the government is doing more generally in terms of participation in international operations. This review includes an assessment of the international threat picture we are facing, the role of the United Nations as a peacekeeping body and the basis for Norway's participation in international operations. The government's balances and priorities also depending on the needs, and the resources available to us are part of such a review. Let me, however, begin by making some comments on the dramatic incident of the weekend in Iraq – the attack by Saddam Hussein. It is a pleasure that the coalition forces have seized Iraq's former dictator. Saddam Hussein can now be held responsible for the serious abuses he is behind. This applies not least to the use of weapons of mass destruction, both against neighbouring countries and against Iraq’s own civilian population. It is now our hope that in the long term the attack on Hussein will lead to the cessation or at least a clear reduction of acts of terrorism in Iraq. It is essential for further reconstruction work to be carried out for the benefit of the Iraqi population. It is also important in view of the future political developments in Iraq. It is important that the prosecution of Saddam Hussein is carried out through a credible and fair trial. UN Security Council Resolution 1483 unanimously called for former members of the Iraqi regime ‘to be held responsible for their crimes and atrocities’. The guiding principle of international law is that it is the State that retains the primary responsibility to prosecute serious crimes. It is therefore fully in accordance with international law that Saddam Hussein is brought before an Iraqi criminal court. However, we assume that a trial will satisfy international law's requirements of independence and legal certainty. The Iraqi Governing Council has recently announced that such an institution will be established. Furthermore, shortly after Saddam Hussein was apprehended, members of the Governing Council signalled that they were aiming for his case to be brought before an Iraqi court. When this is going to happen, it's too early to have any sense of it. After the end of the Cold War, a new pattern of conflict has emerged, characterised by internal and regional conflicts and their interaction. In most of the 1990s, we had such a situation in the Balkans and parts of Africa. Today, similar conflict patterns are even more prevalent in Africa and in some places in Asia. Another significant feature of development is that we are now facing a new – and global – threat picture. The terrorist attacks in the United States in September 2001 showed that the most serious challenges to our common security now come from international terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Only through determined and joint international efforts can the fight against these new safety challenges be successful. It is therefore important that we take an active part in the efforts to maintain the broad global coalition formed after the terrorist attacks in 2001. In the fight against these new security threats, the Government attaches crucial importance to the role that the UN can – and will – play. The primary responsibility for maintaining international peace and security lies with the UN Security Council. We need to support the role and responsibilities of the UN as a peacekeeping agency, and we need to contribute to the UN being given the resources it needs to perform its functions. Experience has shown that there is a need for a wide range of instruments related to peace operations to succeed them. Military presence is often crucial to ensuring the stability necessary for positive political and economic development. But police resources, contributions to the building of justice, humanitarian aid and development assistance are also important elements of more holistic efforts to create long-term peace and reconciliation. As regards the framework for Norwegian participation in such operations, there is a clear requirement: a Norwegian exposure shall comply with international law. This implies that any use of power must be based on international law, either in agreement with the parties, on the right to individual or collective self-defence or on a mandate of the UN Security Council under Chapter VII or Chapter VIII of the Charter. Without such anchoring, there is no basis for military contributions involving the exercise of coercive power. For a number of years, Norway has contributed significantly to various crisis management operations to prevent human distress and suffering. Our contributions have been aimed at promoting positive political and economic developments that have peace, security and stability as their key prerequisites. Experience has shown that these objectives can only be achieved through broad international engagement, political, humanitarian and security, in cooperation with local forces. There is broad consensus, both inside and outside this hall, about the co-responsibility we have to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security. In my view, the broad upsurge of this part of Norway's international activity is contributing to the role we are able to play in peace and reconciliation, and the confidence we are joining in. Norwegian voluntary operations make important contributions to this work. The government is therefore concerned that, in the future, we will also be able to draw on the resources and insights of these organisations to deal with the distress and suffering in conflict areas. As the situation looks today, there is little doubt that Afghanistan, Iraq and Kosovo are going to be the three areas where the predominantly part of the Norwegian international military presence is going to be concentrated next year. Although much of the debate is about Iraq and Afghanistan, I would like to recall what NATO's efforts have been saying about stability and development in the Balkans. We are not yet on target in Kosovo; the underlying problems and contradictions are far from being solved. I therefore imagine a continued significant international presence in Kosovo and in Bosnia-Herzegovina. Let me then go over to explain in more detail the basis for our planned action in Afghanistan and Iraq next year. Security and stability are also important prerequisites for positive political and economic development. The challenges are significant and require long-term and broad international involvement. Many positive results have been achieved in Afghanistan in a short time. A country that was in ruins after decades of civil war and delinquency is now slowly being rebuilt, not least thanks to a comprehensive international aid exposure. Instead of the repressive Taliban regime, an inclusive political process is under way to establish a representative government in the country. In the education, health and other parts of administration there is a major reform process. But a lot remains. The unsolved problems, and above all the alarming security situation, require long-term international involvement in the country, both military and political, in order to create economic development. The Bonn Agreement, which was negotiated under the auspices of the United Nations in December 2001, is central to this work. The agreement sets out the framework for the establishment of a rule of law and for the political process in the future. As part of this process, a Constitutional Commission has been set up to present a draft Constitutional Law to be discussed by a Grand Council, known as Loya Jirga. This Constitutional Grand Council meets in these days. The Bonn Agreement provides for national elections in the summer of 2004. It is not yet clear whether these will include elections at both President and National Assembly. The proposed draft constitution opens up the possibility that the choices do not necessarily have to be kept at the same time. It is therefore considered most likely that a President will be elected first and that the National Assembly will be elected later. In order to implement this process with the necessary degree of legitimacy of the population, the international security force, abbreviated ISAF, is of central importance. Armed groups associated with the Taliban and Al Qaida are actively working to destabilise President Karzai’s transitional government. Warlords and regional leaders are seeking to undermine the Bonn process. Local clan leaders seem in many cases not interested in the power of central government reaching out to their territories. Drug production, which in turn increases, contributes to the strengthening of destabilisation. Despite the acquisition by NATO of the ISAF operation and the continuation of the American-led operation against the remaining terrorist cells in Afghanistan, security outside Kabul has proved to be very difficult to secure. The transitional government also has little real control in the rest of the country. The strong position of regional warlords is a significant explanation of this. NATO’s decision to take over the management of ISAF is a clear expression of the responsibility of the Alliance for Security and Stability in Afghanistan. This is a difficult and demanding task. At the same time, there is a task to be taken seriously by all the countries of the alliance. We can't afford to fail. We must therefore be prepared that NATO and Norway, as members of the Alliance, will have to be in Afghanistan for a long time. The forthcoming gradual extension of the mandate of ISAF beyond Kabul and the establishment of the so-called Provincial Reconstruction Teams, abbreviated PRT, in various parts of the country, are intended to contribute to strengthening the powers of the transitional government. The key task of the PRT teams is to create stability and security in the areas where they are deployed, thereby directly and indirectly strengthening the influence of the transitional government and hence the central power – directly by securing conditions and thus the influence of central power, indirectly by creating stability as a basis for other activities, and then primarily for economic reconstruction and improvements in the living conditions of the Afghan civilian population. All PRT will have a civil element for, among others: contacts with Afghan authorities and international relief organisations. The size of the civil element in each PRT will depend on the situation in the area. The discussions now taking place in NATO with a view to increasing the number of PRT teams have shown that there is broad support for this idea. There is also a broad consensus that the future PRTs should be part of the ISAF force. The Secretary-General of NATO has been entrusted to President Karzai and expressed strong support for the plans for the deployment of several such PRT forces. From the Norwegian side, we have indicated that we are prepared to participate in a Nordic-British PRT team under planning, provided that PRT teams are provided with the necessary security support functions. Security in Afghanistan requires active interaction with the Afghans themselves. So far, there has been only limited progress in building up a national army, police force, border police and a functioning justice system. There is therefore a need to intensify international support in this area. In this context, it is essential that the neighbouring country of Afghanistan contribute positively and actively. Let me say a little bit about today's Norwegian effort in Afghanistan. Norway is actively participating in the military operations in Afghanistan. Today we are contributing with a medical-surgical unit and a civil-military cooperation unit in ISAF. These contributions are planned to end in February 2004. In addition, we have recently deployed a Norwegian security and security company in connection with the organisation of the constitutional Loya Jirga meeting, which I was at. This contribution has been met with great recognition from the Afghan side and from the international community. We have previously participated in the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation with, among others. Special forces and fighter aircraft. The basis of international law for Norway’s military participation in Afghanistan is, in the case of ‘Enduring Freedom’, built on the exercise of collective self-defence, as confirmed in Security Council Resolution 1368. As regards participation in ISAF, it is based on the authorisation of the Security Council in Resolution 1386 and the consent of the Government of Kabul. It is my hope that the arrest of Saddam Hussein will in the long term lead to a reduction or cessation of terrorist attacks against both civilian and military targets in Iraq. At the same time, it is important to recognise that the situation in the country will continue to face significant problems and challenges in the future. We are sadly reminded of this almost daily. The safety situation is extremely serious. Terrorism attacks are targeted at civilian Iraqis as well as the international civilian and military presence. The fact that the UN, the International Red Cross and other humanitarian organisations are also exposed to terrorist acts may demonstrate more clearly than anything else in the situation. In this regard, let me remind you that the Government's attitude to the military actions launched in ours is well known: the government thought that there was not a sufficient basis for international law to go to military action against Iraq. A new decision to this effect by the United Nations Security Council would be necessary in the event. Instead, we went in so that Hans Blix and his weapons inspectors would continue their work. But it didn't go like this. The problem now, however, is what it takes to bring the country back to its feet. It has to be based on the situation as it is now. Our task must be to help stabilise the situation in Iraq and to take our share of responsibility for the reconstruction of the country, both economically and politically, as twice called for by the Security Council in Resolutions 1483 and 1511. For any reason, therefore, the primary challenge is to establish an acceptable safety situation. Without the violence and terror under our control, we will not be able to create conditions for positive political and economic development. The terrorist acts that take place almost daily, and which as often affect civilians as military, cannot be defended in any way. There are no acceptable means of achieving policy objectives. We have failed if we fail to create a security situation that enables the UN, non-governmental organisations and humanitarian aid workers to operate for the benefit of the Iraqi population. At the same time, I would like to stress that stabilisation in Iraq could also have a positive impact on the situation in the Middle East more generally. On the political side, steps have been taken to facilitate Iraqi autonomy. This is a development that we will continue to support. The government is concerned that the transfer of authority from the temporary coalition authority under American leadership to an Iraqi government is taking place as soon as possible. The timetable agreed between the American-led Interim Administration and the Interim Iraqi Governing Council assumes that a transitional government will be in place on 1 July 2004 and that a permanent new constitution will be drawn up two years later. With the attack on Saddam Hussein, there is reason to hope that there will be a new gift in the process of democratisation. The many Iraqis who have appeared in fear of Saddam Hussein can now turn their backs and actively engage in the creation of a new and free Iraqi society. As important as rapid development, it is well prepared and has the necessary legitimacy of the Iraqi population. Without it, the new political leaders in Iraq will be difficult to act with the necessary authority and authority. In his report on Iraq from last Wednesday, Kofi Annan says that it is likely that the country will need assistance in the form of significant military presence for years to come. In the view of the Secretary-General, the Iraqi people must be assured that countries outside the American-led coalition will also be prepared to contribute with military forces if a new Iraqi government so requests. Another also stresses that the growing security problems in Iraq cannot be solved by military means alone. A political process is necessary. With regard to our military participation in the international stabilisation force in Iraq, it consists of two components: an engineering company expanded with mine and explosive cleaners in the British area of responsibility and a smaller number of staff officers in the Polish-led division. The Norwegian military contributions to the stabilisation of Iraq have always been in accordance with Security Council Resolution 1483 of 22 May this year. The nature of the contributions is such that they do not, by international law, give Norway the status of occupying power. The premises for the Norwegian contributions have also been clearly expressed in the works of agreement on which participation in British and Polish responsibilities is based, respectively. On 16 October 2003, the UN Security Council adopted a further resolution, 1511, on the situation in Iraq. Although there has already been a clear basis of international law for Norwegian contributions to the stabilisation of Iraq in the past, we must now take into account the situation as defined in Resolution 1511. It states that enhanced international military and police action is essential to ensure the stability and security of Iraq, in order to provide the necessary basis for future Iraqi self-determination and the safe operation of the UN in that country. The resolution also contains an authorisation for the necessary use of power to ensure stability and security in Iraq. It also provides a basis for a broader spectrum of international military contributions. We have recently received several requests from neighbouring countries for further contributions to the military operations in both Afghanistan and Iraq, including Norwegian involvement in the establishment of a training centre for Iraqi police in Jordan. The requests have also come from the UN, NATO and the EU, among others. has called on the UN Security Council in Resolution 1511 to make international contributions to the police sector. Of course, it is important that we continue to take our share of the responsibility for ensuring positive political, economic and security developments in Afghanistan and Iraq. However, it will not be possible to meet all the requests for contributions we have received. We therefore need to make independent assessments and priorities, based on current needs and available resources. In Iraq and Afghanistan, we aim to continue our international military engagement in the first half of 2004 at about the same level as today. The Minister of Defence will explain this in detail in a few minutes. However, let me point out that the Government in the police/security sector has decided that Norway will add to some increase in its support for the training of Afghan civil and border police. As regards our participation in the second half of 2004, this is a question that the Government will have to come back to. This will include, inter alia: have to be seen in the light of needs and what other countries will contribute. In the assessment, we will also have to take into account our other international commitments, including participation in NATO's new effort force. The overall reconstruction needs in Afghanistan and Iraq have been estimated by the UN, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund up to 2007 at DKK 210 billion respectively for Afghanistan and approximately DKK 235 billion for Iraq. Our development cooperation with Afghanistan is intensified when the country from next year becomes a cooperating country. In our assistance next year, we will continue to have an overall approach with support for the political process, to improve security and to alleviate distress and contribute to reconstruction. It is important that our actions are in line with Afghan priorities. The planned assistance will mainly focus on the building of public institutions, education, democracy and human rights. In the case of assistance to Iraq, Norway announced a total contribution of 537 million at the Madrid International Funding Conference in October. DKK for the period 2003-2006, of which 297 million. kr will be used in the current year. The Norwegian contributions will primarily go to humanitarian aid and reconstruction, mainly through the Multilateral Fund for Iraq. Overall assistance to Afghanistan for 2004 will amount to approximately 300 million. kr and up to 80 mill. kr to Iraq. Norway is currently participating with more than 800 people in various foreign operations. In this way, we contribute to regional and global stability and security with a view to creating a basis for finding policy solutions to conflicts. However, the resources in terms of crew, equipment and financial resources limit our ability to respond positively to all enquiries and contributions. It is therefore an important task for us to give priority to the efforts between different operations and geographical areas. The general line the Government has set up is that we should primarily participate in UN and NATO-led operations. Furthermore, we should be prepared to take responsibility for contributing to operations related to peace and reconciliation processes in which we are involved. Such a case is Sri Lanka. Another is Sudan, where there are clear expectations that Norway will follow the role we have had in facilitating a peace agreement. If there is a peace agreement in Sudan, the Government will positively assess the participation of Norwegian personnel in a UN-led force once any needs and funding have been clarified. We still need to be prepared to contribute to the UN operations in Ethiopia and Eritrea, in Sierra Leone and Liberia. In the Middle East, we will seek to continue our leading role in the international observer group in Hebron on the West Bank. It is important to note that the tasks in Sri Lanka, Sudan and the other places in Africa where we are engaged are of a different nature than, for example, in Kosovo. In these places, it is not a matter of taking part in peace-building military operations, but rather in surveillance, control and police tasks. This requires other types of qualifications and resources. With regard to the Balkans, we will continue to participate with military personnel in Kosovo. Similarly, when NATO's operation in Bosnia is planned to be taken over by the EU in autumn 2004, we aim to make a civil contribution. The Minister of Defence will examine how we will channel Norwegian participation in international military operations in 2004, as well as the resource needs and security situation of the Norwegian forces. She will also go into detail on what we aim to contribute in the form of military forces to Afghanistan and Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e664	The Government aims to continue Norway’s military participation in high-level foreign operations in 2004. The 2004 defence budget, adopted on 4 December, set at 700 million. NOK to this. The Government aims to maintain our participation in the three main areas of operations of Afghanistan, Kosovo and Iraq with relevant and requested strength. In addition, Norway will participate in UN-led operations and some other selected operations. The defense is in the middle of a radical transformation. We adapt Defence to new national and international framework conditions. The aim is to have high-quality, high-responsive strengths that are relevant and effective in relation to the range of tasks, both at home and abroad. The defence's contribution to international crisis management and stabilisation does not weaken our ability to defend Norwegian territory. International engagement is on the contrary against strengthening our ability to maintain effective and relevant defence here at home. The old mobilisation defence was well adapted to the situation for which it was developed but is no longer able to achieve either the necessary response capability, usability, quality or flexibility. The transition to a defence with a higher response capability is therefore primarily driven by the need for smaller and faster available forces in our own neighbourhoods. For foreign operations, we will never have to be out faster than our allies. This is where the requirement of national response ability first comes into effect. One of the main objectives of the establishment of the forces of effort – FIST – for both the Army, the Maritime Defense and the Air Force is to provide a response capability that can be used to provide a better defense at home. Most of the Norwegian defence, which today is made up of just the effort forces, will be at home at any time, ready to respond to various threats and crises, or, if necessary, to provide support to civil society. Therefore, there is no contradiction between structures for national and international operations. In today's safety picture, the requirements for both parts of the task spectrum are broadly consistent and mutually reinforcing. The interoperability of military forces is not adopted, it develops over time, by participating in the NATO Multinational Training and Exercise Community and in actual operations. The defense has already done a lot to meet the new requirements. We're on the right track. Feedback from NATO on our strength contributions is very positive. Our contributions are relevant and meet the demands of modern military operations because we have converted at home. The efforts and competences of Norwegian personnel remain very high standards. This underpins Norway’s role as a credible alliance partner. However, it is critically necessary to complete the start of the transition, i.e.: strengthening operational capability through continued focus on reaction capability, usability, flexibility and quality. To achieve this, cooperation with allies is a crucial prerequisite. We must contribute to the right type of military capability through cooperation with our allies and partner nations in terms of acquisitions, logistics, maintenance and training/training as well as joint strength contributions to concrete operations. The capacity measures, the PCC, to which NATO Heads of State and Government committed themselves at the Prague Summit last year, will have a major impact on our ability to address new challenges. The aim is to achieve more through cooperation than individual countries can afford and capacity to do alone. This is achieved through the selection of strategic partners, role-sharing and new capacities acquired through joint financing. Norway plays an active role in the PCC and is therefore head of a high-level group to improve NATO’s access to strategic maritime transport. Norway is focusing in particular on cooperation with countries that are close to us geographically, politically and culturally. Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom are examples of this. Cooperation with these North Sea countries will provide both economic savings and operational benefits to Norway. It increases our ability to contribute to relevant and requested capacities in foreign operations by allowing smaller Norwegian departments to be ‘plugged’ into larger multinational units. At the same time, these multinational forces will be more closely linked to the defence of Norway. The defence and security policy benefits we achieve through close cooperation with these European NATO countries are very important. The establishment of NATO Response Force, NRF, was also adopted in Praha and is a catalyst for the transformation or transformation of the alliance. The construction of this multinational force is central to the continued military and security policy relevance of NATO. Our participation helps to increase the ability of our forces to operationally interact with allies in multinational operations. In the future, the NRF is likely to become the alliance’s main instrument for participation in crisis management operations both within and outside the alliance’s area. In other words, it should be possible to deploy it both in Afghanistan and in Norway. Participation is a central commitment to alliance and an important contribution to ensuring collective defence and security. We must therefore plan the commitments Norway assumes in NATO's rapid reaction force, in parallel and coordinated with our future involvement in foreign operations. This means that the strength elements Norway commits each six months to the NATO Response Force cannot be deployed for other purposes during the same period. Our registered capacities for foreign operations in 2004 are therefore coordinated with our commitments in NATO’s rapid reaction force. Due to NATO’s requirements for preparedness and recovery prior to the six-month period of operation, strength contributions included in the NRF will normally not be used for other tasks during the period for which they are bound to the NRF. In principle, individual Member States can only withdraw registered units from the NRF in case of acute national needs. Norwegian contributions to foreign operations are derived primarily from the standing forces included in the Armed Forces’ effort force. In addition, units are trained at 6th division which may, if necessary, be involved in foreign operations. In addition, personnel with previous experience in the Defence may continue to be recruited for international service, but this type of recruitment is less predictable and requires significantly greater financial resources and time for training and combination. Participation within the established budgetary framework for foreign operations in 2004 will therefore be mainly dimensioned by the capabilities of the Armed Forces, the FIST Army, the FIST Sea and the FIST Air. At the same time, most of today's capabilities in the individual defence sectors will be part of the forces of intervention. Norwegian military units should in principle be able to react at home as quickly as outside, and Norwegian defence therefore consists mainly of intervention forces. Important exceptions include: Coast Guard and Home Guard. So these are the premise for what we can do in what operation. Norway’s participation in foreign operations is based on its willingness to contribute to peace and stability in conflict areas of importance to our own as well as to international security. We are currently participating with over 1,000 women and men in various operations. Norwegian personnel are making an important effort in international operations. The conduct of such operations is a prerequisite for positive political and economic development. The Norwegian Security and Security Company of the International Security Force, ISAF, in Afghanistan has a key role to play in facilitating progress in the so-called Bonn process. The protection of the implementation of the Afghan Constitutional Assembly, Loya Jirga, is essential for the establishment of a new Afghan constitution and the implementation of democratic elections next year. The Norwegian engineering company in Iraq has made significant efforts for the civilian population in Basra and its surroundings. A prerequisite for stability and hope for a better future is that the essential needs of the population are met, linked to electricity, gas, petroleum, water, etc. The engineering company has repaired and secured the power supply after criminal organisations have torn power lines to steal and sell the copper pipes. Power is a prerequisite not only for the civilian population. The local refineries depend entirely on electricity to maintain the supply of petrol, for example: to the transport sector, as well as to household gas. The Company's Explosives have destroyed over 35 000 explosives, for example. mines, grenades, shots of small arms, missiles and torpedoes — untonened explosives posing a real danger to the civilian population. A new bridge is built, and another bridge is repaired and made executable. The company has inspected the local irrigation system to identify recovery needs across the UK sector in southern Iraq, an area 12 times the size of Kosovo. Two schools in the area are secured and refurbished. The ABC-tropic monitors the use and potential contamination of industrial chemicals in the area and assists explosives in their mission. The sanitation team supports all assignments and uses free time to treat the local population for wounds, splints and other minor injuries. Minefields are known and marked and are largely at the frontier and thus present a less acute threat to the civilian population. Other tasks are therefore given higher priority. However, the company has destroyed approx. Seven hundred mines. All units take part in the watch and watchkeeping tasks, and the personnel are used at all times according to where the needs are greatest. It is nothing new that military forces operate this type of activity, both to relieve acute distress and to win peace. Norwegian soldiers in international service have extensive experience in doing this, in Lebanon, in the Balkans, in Afghanistan and now in Iraq. Military presence, together with traditional assistance and support for the reconstruction and establishment of civil institutions, is in a post-conflict phase three elements constituting a natural whole. It's not a -- or. We all need. There are sometimes significant risks associated with participating in such missions, and the safety of Norwegian personnel is therefore always of the highest priority. The government attaches great importance to the fact that the departments sent out are trained and equipped for self-protection. The well-being of the staff during and after the mission is also central. Security measures shall be adjusted at all times in relation to existing threat assessments. In this context, we rely on an effective intelligence service and good intelligence cooperation. Both threat assessments and security measures to protect the personnel under service are designed in close cooperation with our allies and other partners in the various operations in which Norway participates. Furthermore, we ensure that the departments are equipped with various types of protective equipment, from bulletproof vests and helmets to armoured vehicles. Further action is taken where necessary, whether it concerns movement restrictions or other measures that increase the protection of strength. In addition, it is essential that the exposure rules, ‘Rules of Commitment’, under which the forces operate, are robust and provide the strengths of flexibility to ensure their own security in the best possible way. In Afghanistan, continued international military presence is a prerequisite for positive political and economic development. It is now important to organise for the Afghan transitional government to be able to follow up the Bonn process and expand its influence in the provinces. The establishment of a stable and democratic regime in Afghanistan is central to preventing the country from becoming a haven for international terrorism. Norway has so far gained great recognition for its contribution to the operations in Afghanistan. We have shown that even small nations are able to make relevant contributions, on short notice, to demanding tasks. Security challenges in Afghanistan are major. NATO took over the management of ISAF in August this year and has signalled a long-term involvement. It is essential that the alliance succeeds in its mission in Afghanistan, which is the first NATO operation outside Europe. NATO is and will be the cornerstone of Norwegian security. Therefore, Norway needs to take an active part in NATO operations to help ensure that the alliance remains relevant and strong. The Government aims to prioritise the Norwegian military participation in the ISAF force in 2004. It is clear that a more comprehensive role for NATO in Afghanistan will require the allies and our partner nations to be willing to contribute more forces than ISAF consists of today, at about a point in time. 5,500 people. So far, it has been a challenge to meet the strength needs of the existing mandate area in and around Kabul. NATO has therefore advocated a gradual extension of the scope of operations to ensure that ISAF has sufficient strengths and available capabilities to fulfil its mission, without weakening its efforts in Kabul. The alliance now assesses different possibilities for strengthening the role of ISAF outside Kabul, including: in the establishment of so-called Provincial Reconstruction Teams, PRT. The aim of these teams is to contribute to the development of security and stability in the provinces. Support for security sector reform and reconstruction is central. Norway is currently contributing to ISAF IV with a civil-military cooperation unit and a medical-surgical unit. These contributions will end in January 2004. In addition, Norway has 1 December, contributed a mechanised infantry co-opani such as ISAF Security and Response Force. This force is now carrying out missions in connection with the implementation of the Afghan Constitutional Assembly, Loya Jirga, and will continue in ISAF V until August 2004. The mission will be similar in nature to today's. In the current situation in Afghanistan, it is important to contribute to the extension of the influence of the Afghan Central Authority in the provinces. The establishment of PRT is one of NATO's leading tools to achieve this. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs explained at the outset, Norway is looking at the possibility of contributing staff to a Nordic-British team within the ISAF framework. The Government will continue to work on designing the framework conditions in order to participate in any such PRT cooperation. We must not forget the background of international military engagement in Afghanistan – the terrorist attacks against the United States on 11 September. Norway also contributes in other ways to strengthening the ability of the alliance to combat international terrorism. The NATO Active Endeavour operation in the Mediterranean will continue to be an important venue for this and constitutes one of the most concrete actions undertaken by NATO in the extension of the Article 5 Decision of the Alliance just after 11 September. NATO is reviewing these days Operation Active Endeavour. The background is the difficulty of meeting the strength needs of the operation and the desire for a clearer link to NATO's concept of defence against terrorism. Therefore, Norway will participate in the monitoring of maritime traffic in the Mediterranean routinely in 2004. Our military contributions will continue to be part of NATO's standing fleet forces. Long-term international military presence will also be necessary to bring security and political stability to Iraq. The establishment of a multinational stabilisation force was necessary in order to create good conditions for the reconstruction of infrastructure and the establishment of democratic institutions in the country. There is broad international agreement on the need for a security presence in Iraq during the post-conflict phase. This was underlined once again in the autumn by the adoption of UNSCR 1511, which calls on the Member States to contribute to the international stabilisation force in Iraq. It is important that we end up calling for the UN from Norway and continue to support this effort in 2004. The government aims to continue parts of the machinery and construction capacities of Telemark engineering companies in the UK sector in Iraq. The duration of the contribution is six months. In addition, the Government proposes to extend Norway’s support to the Polish divisional management by a smaller number of staff officers. Since 1999, the KFOR team has played a central role in facilitating peaceful and democratic development in Kosovo. It is in Norway’s interest to contribute strengths through NATO to prevent the Balkans from becoming the ‘disturbed corner of Europe’. The key security challenges remain interethnic violence, organised crime and political extremism linked to Kosovo Albanian nationalism. However, there seems to be some movement in the political process, and that is among other things. dialogue and negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina on the final status of Kosovo. If the security situation so warrants, NATO will move to a more flexible and less personnel-intensive military presence in Kosovo during 2004. Norway’s military contribution to KFOR will be reduced as this development takes place. Until the summer of 2004, the current infantry contribution will continue. The government then aims to offer a smaller number of helicopters during the second half of 2004. Helicopters are a highly sought-after capacity, and the defense has also previously had helicopters in KFOR. In the last ten years, we have witnessed a shift in weight from participation in UN-led operations to operations led by NATO or coalitions of willing. This has become particularly visible since NATO engaged in peacekeeping operations in the Balkans in the early 1990s and during coalition operations in Afghanistan. This is not least due to the fact that NATO has a functioning command apparatus and relevant forces. This does not mean that the Government does not give general priority to the UN or to participation in operations with the UN mandate. The above NATO operations also have a clear mandate from the United Nations. Norway also contributes to a number of UN operations. We have staff officers and observers in the Middle East, Ethiopia, Eritrea and the Balkans. We have recently carried out missions for the UN in Congo and Liberia, and Norway is also involved with military personnel in other peacekeeping operations, such as the Multinational Force and Observers in the Middle East and the Joint Military Commission in Sudan. I also refer to the Foreign Minister's statement that if there is a peace agreement in Sudan, the Government will positively assess the participation of Norwegian personnel in a UN-led force. There are currently informal consultations in the UN on the possible strength of Sudan, and the Government, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, will come back to this once any needs and funding have been clarified. The government aims to continue our involvement in UN operations at about the same level as in 2003. It is true that the number of personnel serving directly in UN-led operations, in the blue berry, is much lower than 10 years ago. It is primarily because, in line with Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter, the UN has increasingly delegated peacekeeping missions to regional institutions such as NATO and the EU. Various conflicts in the 1990s have shown the limitations of the UN in dealing with international operations. The military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq require a comprehensive command, control and intelligence apparatus. This is a type of operation that the UN itself is unable to conduct. The UN does not only have the power to solve the problems of world society. Here, NATO is a crucial partner. I would therefore like to emphasise that all foreign operations and other missions that Norway is currently participating in, and is planning to contribute to in 2004, are under the clear mandate of the UN Security Council. It is important to stress that other institutions, such as NATO and the EU, do not undermine the role of the United Nations but, on the contrary, seek to support it by leading operations under UN mandate. This is an established Norwegian policy and a firm objective. Therefore, the United Nations remains the main player for Norway in dealing with international crises and conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e815	The President will propose that the statements by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence on the overall Norwegian effort in Afghanistan and Iraq in 2004 and Norway’s contribution to operations abroad in 2004 be dealt with in a subsequent meeting in Stortinget – and consider it adopted. We should have completed the examination of the case No. 1 to 8 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e823	Then we are ready to vote on the issues on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e831	During the debate, 32 proposals were put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, proposal No. 4, by Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 5-9, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on the proposals No. 10-21, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 22-32, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party It is first voted on the minority proposals. Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e1113	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22–32, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No 22 reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish a politically independent body to assess the social losses in the absence of integration in Norway.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to withdraw a letter from the Ministry of Justice dated 5 July 1993 asking the police not to be able to intervene in churches and prayer houses to pick people up.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch an information campaign against the municipalities that tells about the opportunities related to municipal challenge law.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that municipalities maintain any VAT increase for 2004’.» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make practical efforts to entrust the county municipality’s tasks to the municipalities and to terminate the county municipality if a majority of the population and municipalities in a state wish to participate in such an experiment.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to agree to attempts by municipalities to assume responsibility for secondary schools whose individual municipalities wish to do so.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop proposals in which individual municipalities and inter-municipal cooperation bodies are to take over the role of regional development manager, and thus the instruments assigned to the county council in relation to regional economic development.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to initiate trials where municipalities which it wishes can assume responsibility for public transport and related funds.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for alternative funding from secondary schools and social welfare institutions, based on a single-cost financing.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to set up a rapid selection to take the balances in the field of asylum. The selection may be recruited from the unemployed with the relevant competence.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to review the procedures for starting hospitals in southern countries with funding in the House Bank with a focus on red tape, and to increase the flow of information to potential stakeholders on the designated framework for the purpose.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e1182	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10–21, from the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government requests the reintroduction of Norwegian training for adult asylum seekers with a known identity, with the exception of those with assumed groundless applications.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to promote a municipality scheme for 2005 based on a net operating surplus of 3 pst.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the use of ODA-approved funds for the settlement of refugees and measures for immigrants be phased over a period of up to 3 years’.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The decision requires the Government of the Municipality Proposition for 2005 to waive the right to tax for municipalities.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government of the Municipality Proposition for 2005 asks the Government to present a holistic assessment of the economic conditions of the smallest municipalities that are the biggest losers in the conversion of the income system, including an assessment of the level and extent of regional additions and North Norway contribution.’» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government through the discretion to compensate the counties that are losing out on changes in the distribution of tasks in the field of drug and family protection.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose an extension of the current limited VAT compensation scheme.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government of the Revised National Budget to provide a detailed breakdown of the redistribution effects between municipalities as a result of a neutral VAT compensation scheme and to propose a revision of the extension of the framework premium that is currently being implemented.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Council asks the Government to investigate and present the impact of regional policy in all the conversions of all general policies’. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the Government to defer the introduction of monthly housing support payments until an overall review of the housing aid is carried out in the context of the housing notification.’; Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up action plans with clear targets for recruiting disabled persons and immigrants to public positions.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government of the Revised National Budget for 2004 to provide a plan for stepping up the number of VTA sites towards full needs coverage in 2 years’ time.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e1256	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-9 from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the reception of unaccompanied minor asylum seekers is given the status of child protection institutions.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers are automatically responsible for child protection and have an equal offer with Norwegian children under the care of child protection.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government during 2004 to submit proposals for the reintroduction of a scheme equivalent to 0,5 G in income for persons undergoing professional reintroduction.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The cost of education related to the return of 50000 kronor per year. the school year and 100 000 kroner for the entire retiring period shall be removed.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The cost of subsidies for necessary school supplies under vocational rehabilitation shall be removed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e1293	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to ensure that all direct business-oriented measures granted on the basis of the disposal of the capped appropriations by county municipalities. 551 item 60, shall be managed through the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund/Innovation Norway.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e1308	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Labour Party and the Advance Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to refrain from any form of establishment of the Sharia Council or similar in Norway.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to earmark the grant for the operation of — and residence at — camp schools for primary school students in the context of the revision of the 2004 budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e1330	A vote shall now be taken on the proposal for a decision in the framework area 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e3521	The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e3535	Now we're going to deal with area seven.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e3786	The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e3798	Then there is still to be a vote over C. Framework-independent decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e3840	The Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e3890	The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are behind the setting. In the case of XII, the Right and Christian People's Party have announced that they will support the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e3913	The Labour Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the vote. The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre will now support this Roman number subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e3953	The Party of Workers, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre are behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e3972	The Working Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party are behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e4344	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 28 November 2003: «The decision asks the Government to assess changes to Law No 25 September 1992 107 on municipalities and counties etc. in the light of the recommendations of the selections currently being worked on adjacent areas.» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e4364	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 28 November 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for the establishment of a system for the supervision of audits in the municipalities. The Government is asked to present the proposal in spring 2004.» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e4384	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 28 November: ‘The Authority asks the Government to assess the relationship between private auditors and the Public Prosecutor’s Act/Government Act after the Public Prosecutor’s Committee has given its opinion.’; The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e4404	The Committee had ceased:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e4672	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 7, by Mr Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 2, by Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 3, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 4, by Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 5, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 6, by Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 8, by Morten Lund, on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 9, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Center Party
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e4700	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to submit proposals to amend the budgetary legislation so that long-term prevention benefits can be taken into account, thereby contributing effectively to stimulating prevention activities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e4713	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2004 State budget is authorised under: Cape Town Post Purpose:Croner2412The Norwegian State House Bank [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2412)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e4804	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 7 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e6128	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2004 State budget is authorised under: Cape TownPostDestination:Croner1520State Consultant [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5312 and 5615)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e6198	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2004 State budget is authorised under: Cape Town Post Purpose:Croner5312The Norwegian State House Bank [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2412)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e6245	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2004 State budget is authorised under: Chapter.Post Purpose:Croner2426SIVA SF [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3961 and 5609)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e6294	Proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party are addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘A sample of the Grand Duchy is set up to evaluate and assess the investigation of the State Budget Committee.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e6309	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Ministry of Finance is asking that the Ministry of Finance stop its efforts to reorganise the operation of the Small Boat Register.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e7700	The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15-2.ana.ud623e8946	Case No. 8 has already been processed.
