ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e28	There is an application from the Christian People's Party Group for the welfare permit of the representative Dagrun Eriksen from 12 February to 20 February. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative of the West Agder County, Sigmund Kroslid, is called to meet during the period of leave.3. Sigmund Kroslid is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Dagrun Eriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e46	Sigmund Kroslid is present and wants to take a seat. The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e51	On behalf of Lodve Solholm and myself, I put forward a proposal for changes to the composition of the board of the Travel Guarantee Fund so that travel life operators can be given a level playing field.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e56	The representative of Øystein Djupedal will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e59	On behalf of the representatives Rolf Rikvam, Inge Ryan and myself, I would like to propose a status report on the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e64	The representative of Kenneth Svendsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e67	On behalf of the representatives of Øyvind Vaksdal, Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself, I propose to introduce demands for local referendums in the construction of toll-funded road projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e72	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e95	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Councillor Hilde Frafjord Johnson Councillor Ansgar Gabrielsen Councillor Torild Skogsholm The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e114	I have a question for the Minister of Industry. I guess it's not too strong to say that a lot of people in recent times have been looking at the government's industrial and industrial policy that is quite debatable. It is still pointed out that the general economic conditions are important for the country's industry. No one disagrees. But we also need a Minister of Industry and a Ministry of Industry fighting for Norwegian industry, which is in a situation that is more difficult than for a long time. If we are to maintain and develop new jobs, it requires an active industrial policy strategy. I think a lot of people ask themselves, where is that strategy today? We now see, for example: that Statoil wants to award the contract on snow-white to Dragados in Spain, which presupposes Kværner. That's a question that we'll probably come back to. But I have a question that concerns another case, as it says in today's newspapers. While the Norwegian Government is ripping the SND for money and building up capital access instruments for Norwegian industry, we end up in the wrong situation that as we tighten in here at home, we send aid money with those who move out – in this case when Mustad factories move to China. What does the Minister of Industry think of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e125	It is clear that we experience some paradoxes in Norwegian policy that we definitely want to facilitate the development of jobs in Norway. At the same time, we see headlines like what we see in the newspaper today, that Mustad's China establishment has received subsidies from NORAD. Let me say this: I have today sent a letter to NORAD to get an information about that relationship. However, the preliminary contact suggests that there are guidelines on aid policy on the part of the Storting that underpin NORAD’s acceptance of the application. So you could say, "Should you do it?" Well, that's too far up to the Storting. However, the guidelines for the allocation of assistance funds also concern training to provide people with work in countries covered by assistance funds, and this has probably also been the case with the representative Arnstad. The Council of State responsible for NORAD is present in the Chamber, so that it can be further developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e134	With regard to the relevant guidelines, this will be one of the guidelines in which the lot of the centre had several observations when the case was dealt with — especially in the case of the NORFUND scheme. We now experience that the responsibility is shifted from one to another. It's happened in the Dragonos case, it's also happening now, by the state council here saying that this is in line with the Storting's guidelines. There can be no obstacle to the fact that, despite the guidelines of the Storting, one also uses a reasonable judgement as to what a person uses capital for. China is one of the countries in the world with the cheapest labour force, with which we will never be able to compete in terms of labour costs. China is one of the world's most attracted to private investment. Is it right that, while cutting down on our own capital instruments, we should send with a Norwegian company capital to establish ourselves in China, while at the same time canceling 200 employees at Gjøvik?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e141	Now I'm not sure the full description provided by the representative Arnstad is correct. In the case that the Center Party has comments on some things, it is well known. The representative Arnstad mentioned the Snow White case and Dragados. I just want to remind you that if the Senterpartiet and Mrs Arnstad had got their way, no workers, either in Norway or Spain, had an hour's work on creating the facility that the Centerpartiet and SV de facto opposed. It reminds me a lot of him who was against priests, but for female priests. There will be a kind of communication that I think a former energy minister should stick too well to. As for the current situation in NORAD, whether they have exercised the discretion that they should, whether they have complied with the guidelines that apply, I would assume that the representative Arnstad will also understand that in the course of the two hours that have passed since I read the newspaper, I do not have a full overview of it. I have asked myself a written briefing on this. But as I said, the constitutionally responsible state council for NORAD is right next to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e150	There will be follow-up questions – Olav Akselsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e153	I do not want the Minister of Industry to have the full overview of all enterprises in Norway. I myself visited the knitting company Janus in Bergen on Monday. They have just taken over a competitor in a neighbouring municipality and have applied for funds for co-location. It was a cost of 1.5 million. kr. They've been denied. At the same time, it is claimed that if they had moved the same company to the Baltic region, they would receive this support from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and it is understandable that most people react negatively to this. While they are fighting to survive in Norway, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has joined forces with the Council of Exports. to the Baltic where they show all the good facilities and the positive sides of the flag. Nor should we focus more on how to prevent flagging than to facilitate it, as one does today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e160	It's an undeniable fact that some industries have to a very large extent flagged out. The representative Akselsen is named Janus, who is in the tech industry. As most people will be familiar with, over the past 30 years you've basically phased out this whole industry. It is not certain that the Workers' Party has been absent in the government offices during that period. As far as I remember on the go, in terms of assisting in the deflagration of e.g. Baltic, I can't see that there was any decline in that flagging in the period of the Axis itself was the Council of State. It was a scheme introduced by the Central Party Council Mrs. Queseth Haarstad, who has been carried on by the Workers' Party, and which I have now had a full review of in a report that I have received. I'm going to the Baltic in a week. My conclusion has not been reached as to whether to recommend Stortinget continuation or not to continue it. I wonder whether we should use Norwegian taxpayers' money to build infrastructure in other countries to attract Norwegian companies. I'll put a big question mark on it, and I'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e166	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e169	The last thing the Minister of Industry said is very positive. We experience that both the SND, the SIVA, the Swedish Export Council and now the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through aid funds, spend state money to enable companies to establish themselves in other countries, when Norwegian businesses are closed down. So what he said now is positive. But does that mean that the Minister of Industry will continue to look at the many different support schemes that exist, in order to prevent what we see today at Mustad, which we have seen at many companies that establish themselves in the Baltic region, from happening, and that the Stortinget will be presented with a report to prevent this kind of misuse of State aid? There can be no doubt that this is contrary to the Storting's intention to SND and to SIVA. Thus, the intention of the big business with auxiliaries is not that they should be used to shut down Norwegian industry and establish industry in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e174	With all due respect, sir. Djupedal, I must say, it's quite trendy what I hear. The size has been presented in detail as to what SIVA has done, and what SND has done. In several propositions it has been notified back. Representatives of the parties concerned have been present and seen in the country concerned. It's established by regimes in this country that at least I wasn't in, and not my party was in. What I've said is that we're going to take a look at this. And I see absolutely an opportunity that I will liquidate the arrangements introduced by, among other things. The Centre Party and continued by the Workers' Party. But I think one should be very careful to say that this must be abuse of funds. It is expressed a positive will from the Storing and explicitly in the Business Committee on these matters. Then I think it is too bad to characterize it as an abuse. If you read the setting, you're going to be able to figure it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e179	Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e182	We find that Norwegian companies both shut down, on the one hand we're confused, and on the other hand we're flagging out their business. In recent days, there has been a strong focus on the Dragados and Snow White contract. The Ministry shall be in favour of setting up a sample to assess the illegal subsidisation of the establishment in several European countries. Now there has been a demand from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre to postpone the conclusion of the contract. Statoil had originally intended to conclude this contract on 6 April, so if you postpone it for a few weeks, it will not damage the progress of the project or cause special additional costs. The progress party will discuss this matter at its group meeting tonight, and we are at the forefront of that matter. If it is that the Progress Party now supports the other opposition parties, it will be a majority to possibly instruct the Government to ask Statoil to wait. Will the Minister of Industry then respond to such a request by the majority of Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e191	Firstly, of course, the representative Hedstrøm is right in saying that in this case the Progress Party has also chosen to wait until they saw that they were on the verge! As to whether to postpone or not to postpone, whether to encourage or not to encourage, it is not the case that we are getting predictable framework conditions in this country, that we are operating with calls and resolutions, in so far as neither at large nor in government. We need a warrant to intervene with a Norwegian citizen. General legal certainty so requires. Actually, that also applies to Statoil. As politicians, we must not deprive Statoil of their responsibility for this expansion. The two paragraphs of the Petroleum Act §§ 4-2 and 4 5 do not allow intervention after an installation has received «run!» in the Stortinget, which this received on 13 June last year, and the work has been started. Then there are some legal implications that mean that you get into a responsibility financially. I don't want to take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e198	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e201	I see that the Minister of Industry is standing, and he can do that, because that's what I have questions for. I am unfortunately forced to ask a question that I have asked many times before, but that I have received negative answers every time. In the last year, 45 new people have lost their jobs every day. The unemployment rate has increased by 25 pst. Worse still, the number of long-term unemployed has increased by 45 pst. Unfortunately, this seems to be just the beginning. From all over the country, the number of bankruptcies last year was the highest in ten years. A report from the NHO in More and Romesdal shows that 50 pst. by the companies assess concrete deflagration and even more say they will reduce the workforce. Last week lost as known Kværner Rosenberg Snow White to Spain. The government has long ignored all warnings and has detailed this development. My question to the Minister of Industry is whether, unlike in the past, he has concrete measures to take to reverse this trend.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e210	First of all, this time too, I would like to take the opportunity to refute some of the premises in the Akselsens claim that one ignores, that one should almost not follow along, and that one calls it trifles. Now it's like the international economic cycle that we're seeing is hitting every country, run by conservatives or social democrats or whatever it is. They experience exactly the same thing: it's a falling industrial employment, it's a falling industrial production, and it's an increasing unemployment. That, of course, also affects us. So the question you also have to consider is, is it so that it hits us to a greater extent than our competitors? So there are things that might indicate it. Had we continued the Labour Party's policy, it would probably have been even worse. From 1995 until now, we know that every year we have lost competitiveness for Norwegian competitive business – continuously every year – with approx. 2 pst. Clearly, this will have consequences in the end. You can't both afford to do all the good things in the public sector and at the same time think you're going to get an industrial growth. Every working day throughout the 1990s, 70 more people were employed in the public sector, which represents about half the total number of people employed. 40 years' worth of work. Industrial employment has remained silent. For the first time in ten years, we now have a government that has said that growth in the public sector must be less than growth in GDP. It is essential for growth in the competitive sector. Secondly, you can't afford pay supplements in this country that are far above our competitors, and so believe that it doesn't matter. This, of course, has consequences, and that is what we see now. If we had a wage increase that was lower than in our competitors, we would have increased competitiveness – that is the opposite. And then we have a rate, and then we have an interest rate. What is it going to take to get these down? Yes – and there is the Workers' Party, hopefully, on our trail – we need to pursue a strict fiscal policy, otherwise it will not work. One cannot distribute on the one hand and then believe that it has no consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e225	I had a very simple question. I asked if the Minister of Industry had any concrete plans to now reverse the trend. When, in this context, he only owes to international economics and previous governments, I take it as a sign that that is not the case. The truth is that the two most important steps are a tight budgetary policy and that one has effective income policy cooperation. Last year, the government chose to run a more expansive line than the Workers' Party proposed, both in the revised national budget, where we were almost ridiculed when we said there was a need for savings, and last fall. The biggest wage increase was in the public sector last year, when the Minister of Labour was right, and there has not been a single measure to dampen wage growth. On the contrary, a lot of social negative schemes have been introduced, making it much more difficult to get workers involved in sensible wage developments. But my question was, does the Minister of Industry have specific plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e234	It is the government's policy in this area that is the government's policy. The head of the Business Committee probably knows very well that the very heaviest and most important premises for the competitiveness of the Norwegian competitive sector are distributed among dozens of departments. The government's overall policy in this area is that we have taken the lead, as the Akssen mentions, namely income policy cooperation. There is a clear understanding of both the employer and the employee sides of the country that if we do not reduce the wage growth, it is not useful to give 17 May talks about neither the shipbuilding industry nor other things. That's why we have to give signals on it ran a tighter race than ever, I would say. For my own part, with responsibility for most of the companies in which we own, I have said zero increase in board fees, and in a meeting I'm going to have in three-four weeks, where all the group leaders and all the board members are going to enter, I'm going to put heavily on them that the salary growth for managers should not be a prom higher than for others, in order to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e242	There will be follow-up questions – Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e245	Now, the Minister of Industry has given a suitable dosage of the Workers' Party and the Center Party, so it might be time to get some real answers to what this government's industrial policy strategy is, and what is this Minister of Industry's strategy to take care of Norwegian industry. That's what I feel we're now waiting for. I don't think the governing fees in the boardrooms are enough answers to that question, to say what it is. Does that mean that the Council of State now replied to the Akssen, that the answer is only cuts in the public sector and a more flexible labour market, or is there any other industrial policy measures that the government is concerned with? What will the Government do in relation to access to capital to Norwegian enterprises? What will it do in relation to focusing on those industries where we have the opportunity to be among the best in the world? And what will it do in relation to research and development? There will soon have to be some answers except for the extreme mantra on tight fiscal policies and cuts in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e252	I will try to answer some of the 14 questions that were asked, but it is impossible to answer all of them. So there were 14 question marks combined, and it's clear that there's only one thing that can be said. The main government strategy is related to research and development. What we're doing now is getting massive increases in relation to this fund. Not least the new scheme we have created with SkattenFUNN has proved to be a huge success. Several thousand new Norwegian companies have now announced their interest in this and received commitments – several thousand Norwegian companies that were not previously in the Research Council's chart. We are now developing a comprehensive innovation policy, which has never been done before, which demonstrates the link between the influence of all departments on overall competitiveness. The most important thing: no matter what the representative may think about signalling in relation to management salaries, we know that it has been an important matter every year in terms of wage development, that others who have received more have been pointed out. That's why it's important to get involved. [[The President clubs.]] As for the instruments, I have a case that comes to the Storting in a month and a half, which is a complete review, an update and a forward-looking system for this, where you put behind some of the arrangements that you had, and look forward to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e259	The President reminds us of speaking time, even though it may be a little premature to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e262	It's not premature, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e267	Sylvia Brustad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e270	I think it is worrying that we have a government that does not take the situation on the labour market more seriously than what we now hear the Minister of Industry also say, and this applies, among other things. what is happening in the supplier industry. We had before Christmas what happened at Kværner Egersund, where 140 had to go because the assignment went to Dragados. Now we've seen the same thing about Snow White, that the mission has gone to the same yard, and I understand it so that the Minister of Industry has no intention of doing anything but putting down a sample. A selection is well and good – it is at the request of a majority in the United Kingdom before Christmas to go through the competitive situation, which is very necessary – but it has to be done here. I also want to say that there are many ways of exercising ownership even in previous phases, and I want to ask the Council of State the following questions: Do you think the Council of State would be wise if Statoil now postponed to sign the contract on March 6, and the Government and others spent that time actively investigating the question: What in the world is the reason why there may be so many price differences that we have seen between Aker Kværner and Dragados?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e277	When the representative says she is ignorant, it may of course be because she is ignorant, but it may also be because she is not interested in knowing. I think maybe the last thing is the case now, as far as I know Mrs Brustad, when it is replicated that the Council of State has done nothing. The first meeting was with Aker Kværner, the trustees and TBL on 30 October last year. The next meeting I had was 14 days/three weeks later with the owner of Kværner, I met with the group management in Kværner, I asked myself a written reason for these things, which, as you have seen in the media, Kværner did not want to give. I took the documentation I had received from the elected representatives, in a meeting with EU Commissioner Monti on 7 January, we have had a continuous dialogue with the U.D., our embassy staff in Madrid, and asked for additional resources in this regard. I see that the channels that the Government normally has for collecting this type of information have not been sufficient. That's why we're willing to use the resources that are needed to advise us on this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e282	In this government it seems that state ownership is the same as passive ownership. We now see this in connection with Snow White Saka. According to former Prime Minister of Right, Kåre Willoch, it's not the same thing – it's not Right policy to have passive state ownership. In the big message presented last year by Gabrielsen, it was called ‘less and better state ownership’. Now, what we see is that Statoil, who was privatized against the voices of the Central Party and the Labour Party, now has less state ownership. Is it so to understand that Gabrielsen thinks that what we now see with Statoil, is just the expression of «less and better state ownership», when they now remove the social responsibility they had before, well to go abroad and thus endanger Norwegian jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e287	Just a small correction to Langeland since he said it was the Center Party and the Workers' Party that voted against. I guess it was the Center Party and the SV who voted against sub-privatisation of Statoil. On the contrary, the Labour Party proposed it. The Minister of Energy was Aksensen, who is now head of the Business Committee. As far as I remember, Mrs. Brustad was also a member of that government. That government promoted a proposition, St.prp. No 36 for 2000-2001, where it was explicitly stated that Statoil should be exactly equal to other listed companies, and the owner should act exactly as owners do in listed companies. The SV and the Center Party voted against. Agreed or disagreed today, it is now so, I fully agreed with what the Workers' Party did. I understand that, as far as Langeland is concerned, but at the moment when Statoil was privatized, the possibility of direct instructions in these kinds of cases was denied. That's explicitly stated in the proposition from Mr. Olav Akselsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e292	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e296	The Government has announced a maritime communication in the spring of 2004 to address the environment, safety and framework conditions. With respect to reporting, it's urgent to get the framework conditions in place. We all know what is needed – there are international framework conditions at EU level and net pay schemes. We don't need any more investigations about this, we've got so many papers and notes about it that we could wallpaper the entire landfill. What is the reality is that there has been no political will to implement the measures. Does not the Council of State mean that the Government is harming Norwegian shipping, and that Norway will lose as a maritime power if it does not do anything now?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e301	And then finally, the answer is yes. If you do nothing, you damage Norwegian shipping interests. I understand very well that Hedstrøm's commitment and indignation, and the Progress Party has a different record than any other party in the Stortinget in this area in terms of support for seafarers. It is to be said in the name of justice. I also fully agree with the representative Hedstrom when he says that we can lose the entire storeroom – probably even more buildings – with the documents written about the net pay scheme as such. When I've wanted to promote a big message about maritime policy, it'll be a bit of it – an important piece, but still a limited bit in relation to totality. In my opinion, the maritime cluster, the maritime industry and the maritime activity are so important to the nation as a whole, both in terms of value creation, foreign exchange income, housing and employment, that I think it is natural that the size of this large-scale period is presented with a big message about this. The size has not dealt with this policy area in an aggregate manner for seven to nine years, and that is why I felt this was absolutely necessary. But it is quite clear, as the representative suggests, that it is political will that it is totally linked to the introduction of the net pay system, with the billions that lie there. Of course, it's just a decision in Stortinget that's going to do it. So now all governments throughout the 1990s, regardless of the hue they may have had, have proposed a liquidation of this, starting with the Brundtland government, via the Jagland government – which then had a finance minister named Stoltenberg, and for this. I fully recognize that we have done so. However, we have concluded an agreement with the Progress Party that during this large-scale period we have a lower framework of the amount agreed in the Stortingen in the autumn, and this will be part of the investigation in this communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e312	It's true, as the Council of State says, that we had a budget agreement that defined the floor, but not the roof of Norwegian shipping policy. What we're experiencing today, and as we didn't know then, is that the shipping environment is now getting confused. Offshore and supply companies are flagging out, and only these companies are related to approx. 5 000 jobs along the Norwegian coast. And what happens in the EU? Sweden and other EU countries suck labour, skills and value creation. This is also part of the EU strategy to build up to a maritime major act by 2010. I am fully aware that the Minister of Industry and our Prime Minister is opposed to increasing the industry-specific support to Norwegian seafarers, but does he not see the challenge in shipping, which has proved its own excellence and sailed into Norway so many billions? Here we have an opportunity to be world leaders in the future. Don't you want to think again and take immediate action? That's what's needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e319	As far as I know, there is now a document No. Eight proposals on this in the Business Committee, and I would assume that the Business Committee will be leading this work in the future. We want this, I have made it clear that, in the context of both the annual budget and, of course, in the context of this communication, this should be an important point. As a result, there is no doubt that the reimbursement scheme has an impact on the number of Norwegians employed on these ships. It is also quite right, as the representative says, that in the petroleum sector, or in the petroleum/offshore vessels, there is a considerable concern after these ships have been taken out. These are things that we definitely look at, and must look at, in the context of this communication, but also in previous rounds that we are receiving, in the context of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e326	There will be follow-up questions – Olav Akselsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e329	At least here's a case where the Minister of Industry can't blame others, even if he'll probably try. He has lost the internal fight against the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Administration. And while both Gabrielsen and Right's leaders in the previous period had quite clear answers to what's most likely for this industry to have a positive future in Norway, one now needs more years and a lot of spending to be able to give the same answers as one had so clarifyingly clear just one week before one entered the government offices. Now, part of the reason why the government has wanted to remove the schemes we have in this sector is that it is called 'nutritional neutrality', so that it does not favour some industries rather than others, even if this breaks completely with what was said before the election. In the election campaign, at least it was the argument most often used by a colleague of the Minister of Industry. And my question is, is it nutrition neutrality that will be the principle of the message he is about to present to the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e336	I must give the representative Akssen absolutely right that the undersigned has been in favour. I can't waive my commitment to these arrangements in the 1990s, and the roles are changed over time. It is strange to think that the representative Akssen was the Council of State of the first government that proposed to take the offshore fleet out of the reimbursement scheme, while he is now its greatest defender. I take note of that. I cannot in any way underestimate the fact that this government has also done in relation to the budget. We proposed to withdraw the reimbursement scheme. However, we included it in the budget agreement with the Progress Party. I now have a dialogue with several in these environments to look at the situation, what needs to be done, what needs to be done quickly, and what can be done over time. I'm not surprised that this has to do with business neutrality and non-nutritional neutrality, but we don't have a general shift in the principle that the Stortinget adopted broadly, namely to have nutrition neutrality as a primary guideline.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e345	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e348	This question illustrates very well how wrong it can be when you do not have the opportunity or wish to pursue a policy where you choose to bet on what you can best do. It is not that the entire Norwegian business life has a broken back. We have some areas where we have the opportunity to be really good. Offshore is one area, maritime industries another area, space industry is a third, and shipping is a fourth. But then we can't bet on it because we have the so-called principle of nutrition neutrality to take into account. It's going to be as bad as it can be, and it's the opposite strategy of the many other countries following, among other things. Finland in its relationship with Nokia. I had a nice meeting with a number of Right-Rapporteurs in the West last week. There were a lot of shipowners – probably the Right People too – at the meeting. Their message is that they do not have time to wait for the time it takes for the Council of State to present the Maritime Communication. The flag is now happening, it's going to happen over the next six months, and we don't have time to wait, is their message to the Stortinget. Are they wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e355	Let me first say that it is nice that the representative Arnstad has had nice meetings with the Right People in the West. It was supposed to be just missing. I've met nothing but nice people in the West. As for whether you have time to wait or not to wait, it's clear that in the current situation, of course, I have an understanding that those shipping companies that represent offshore, who have lost all reimbursement, have a special challenge to keep Norwegians on board. The option is to flag out, e.g. to Sweden, as some people do now. I don't want to say what to do with it. We have regular rounds in the revised national budget and in the ordinary budget, plus that I have an initiative related to the reporting work that is going on. Besides that, I really don't want to signal anything special, as long as it's a matter that's now in the committee and has not yet been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e364	Steinar Bastesen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e368	I have a follow-up question. It's true, as Marit Arnstad said, the deflagration is happening now. It happens today, it happens tomorrow, and it happens the day after tomorrow. It's too late when the message comes. What should we say to our young people who have had apprenticeship space on board these boats that are flying the flag of Norway? The Minister of Economic Affairs has taken part in the amendment of the Foreign Affairs Act, so that the ship inspection no longer goes on board the foreign vessels and searches for crews who have foreign citizenship and examines whether they have a work permit and a residence permit. That's what the Minister of Industry has been in on. Is this flagging concern? Does the Minister of Industry worry that the youth can no longer take up apprenticeship, and will he do something about it today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e375	I must first say that on the move I cannot come up with the amendment of the law that Stortinget has done in relation to the control of the ship, so I cannot comment on it. But what I understand is the main issue from the Bastisen, is related to maritime education. After all, there's someone who's got apprenticeship places, and the question is, do we make apprenticeship places train people for unemployment in relation to the job they've been thinking about? Clearly, it is a challenge we face, also in relation to the moral aspect, because it is the fact that both the Storing and the industry in the last half of the 1990s have very much of a fuss about young people taking maritime education. It's clear that we have to bring it with us as part of the back porch when we see what we're going to do with this, both in the work that's now going on in Stortinget, and in what had to come into documents for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e382	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e385	I would like to ask the Minister for Development a question. I asked the Minister for Development here in the Chamber 14 days ago about the refugee situation in Ethiopia and Afghanistan. We know that thousands and refugees threaten many places in the world and are a reality for millions of people. We also know that this is coming very much in the shadow of the Iraq crisis. VG Nett wrote yesterday that a million Palestinians are threatened by violence because Western countries do not want to provide financial support, as the United Nations has asked for. In Palestinian areas where people are barred from barbed wire, from Israeli rifles, there is now a crisis of solitude, unemployment and fullness. We see that it's money and resources for war. We see that it's not the same desire and the same ability to solve the refugees' problems. What is being done from Norway to help with the situation of the Palestinian refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e392	I don't think anyone can blame Norway for not wanting to stand up for refugees and for people in flight, whether it's from war or in other ways. We're one of the biggest contributors to the entire UN emergency aid system, and it's also about putting up with the hungry in Africa, both in southern Africa and in the Horn of Africa, how many people are also on the run. The same applies in other areas. With regard to the Palestinian refugees and the situation in the Palestinian territories, I received a report this week by NORAD's director, who has just been there. My State Secretary was there recently. And there's a critical situation, there's no doubt about it. We take this seriously. We have a budget for the Palestinian region that is very high this year as well. For 2003, approximately 500 million are earmarked. to the Palestinian Territories and to the Middle East regional allocation. In this area, there will also be scope for substantial humanitarian support. This is it set of money for. The humanitarian allocation in this area is the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but there is no doubt that Norway will come forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e399	I thank you for your answer. It was a good progress presentation the Minister for Development gave of what the situation is now. We also know that there may be a refugee disaster in connection with a possible war against Iraq. It is available per year. Today, several million refugees in the Middle East. How do we plan the Government in relation to the fact that war against Iraq can lead to a dramatic increase in the number of refugees, and – quite simply – do we care what kind of political consequences it can bring about a war, not least for the refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e406	Let me first stress that although the danger of a military conflict is present, war in Iraq can still be averted, and the Government works maximum for peace and that such a situation will not occur. That being said, we are already providing support through several non-governmental organisations for important projects in Iraq and in support of a people in need. This applies to both water, sanitary, health and nutrition projects. Last year the Norwegian aid for this was 24 million. kr, which will continue this year. The second thing we do is we have a significant national preparedness through the so-called NOREPS and the NORSTAF system. NOREPS means an emergency stock that can be deployed at short notice in all kinds of conflicts and crises around the world; the other is a staff base of 300 people who can assist at 72 hours' notice. These contingency mechanisms have been used in previous crisis situations and could now be used. So to what's also the representative's question, exactly what's going on in concrete planning. Norway has been restrictive in its participation until now. This week, through Secretary of State Vidar Helgesen, we have had a meeting with the volunteer organizations about this. [[President clubs]] We're dealing with the United Nations system, which has been working on this for a while, and now it's getting 30 million. from Norwegian to UN General Preparedness in this field. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e415	The president reminds me that the president was very kind now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e418	That's absolutely right, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e423	There will be follow-up questions — Åslaug Haga.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e426	One of the most important issues on the international agenda is the fight against terrorism. This fight has mainly been conducted internationally with military instruments. The need to combat poverty has been virtually entirely absent in the international debate. Now there is no direct link between terrorism and poverty, but there is no doubt that poverty, deep injustice, can create a breeding ground for terrorism. In the Norwegian debate on the fight against terrorism, the Minister for Aid has been virtually absent. I'm sorry. My question is whether the Minister for Assistance has done something in international forums to put alternatives to military solutions on the agenda to combat international terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e434	First, I would like to stress that I am the Minister for Development, not the Minister for Aid. That should be known to the representative Haga. With regard to the description of the international situation, I am not quite sure whether the representative Haga has followed sufficiently. This has been a very important topic of discussion in international forums, where, of course, I have also participated. In fact, the fight against poverty and the fight against international terrorism has been discussed in the context of a number of international meetings. It is produced by the President of the World Bank, James Wolfensohn. It's pointed out by Tony Blair, in his previous speeches and in new speeches. It's pointed out by Bill Clinton where he's been. Even President Bush has mentioned this context. It is also an important part of the new American security strategy. It can be said what you want about it, but there is, in fact, a very important point in combating poverty. In fact, this is much more discussed internationally than in Norway. I have also pointed out this in various contexts in a number of interviews. I just want to say that in the Norwegian press this discussion is very absent. It is not just this Council of States' responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e441	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e444	I guess the main question here is not what you're saying, but what you're actually doing internationally. It's been 24 years since it was said by the world's Heads of State that in 10 years it was going to eliminate hunger. Still, 6 million children die each year of malnutrition. It's as much as it was supposed to fall down an aircraft with 500 passengers every hour of the day of the year. So there are a number of structural conditions that help make people vulnerable to hunger and to weaken food security. There are questions about what you're actually doing with these structural relationships, not just when you're talking about this at conferences, but when you're actually sitting at the negotiating table. This is why it is a concrete question: how will the Government and the Minister of Development contribute, for example, to: in the forthcoming WTO negotiations, that this issue becomes the main priority, and that food security in poor countries is strengthened?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e449	First, I fully agree with the representative that there must be a connection between what you say and what you do. This is precisely why action is one of the most important things we are dealing with internationally — joint action. What has also been the case is that the focus on food security has been stronger now than it has been for a long time, not least because of the starvation that is under way in parts of Africa. Norway also participates. The food security area and the agricultural area have been neglected for too long in the last 15 years. That's why I put down a sample, the Bie Committee, with Norwegian experts with international experience who just, on 4 February, gave me a position. We'll now bet on this area. I have notified the Storting about this. We will deal with this setting carefully, and on that basis look at both what we can do in the Norwegian context, and what we can do in the international context. In the WTO food security is not a major issue, but agricultural negotiations are. There is the possibility of protection on the agenda, but not least market access, which is the main and most important requirement of developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e456	Then we move on to the next main question, from Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e459	In the Labour Party, we take unemployment seriously. The representative, Mr Aksensen and others, have pointed out that unemployment is at stake and asked for action. The government at the Council of State Gabrielsen answers something in the middle: everything is very well, it could be worse, and we have a tight fiscal policy, so it's probably going well. In the Labour Party, we think this is absolutely not enough, and now I'm going to ask a new government council if it has anything more to do with the activity of both following in the situation and doing something about it, that's the Minister for Trade. It is important for the Minister of Transport to keep abreast of the situation, especially with regard to the construction sector and unemployment there. I would like to ask if she does so, and whether she is considering measures to combat unemployment. As the Minister for Transport is well aware, there are infinitely unresolved tasks, both for Norwegian railways, on the Norwegian road and in Norwegian ports, which could provide a lot of work. Is that how the Council of States thinks?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e466	I can assure you that I am following closely the development of unemployment in the construction sector. That's how there'll be variation in activity in this area, and I'll follow closely. It has varied over time. Now, when we're going to sit down and work on a new budget, it's important to review the figures in this area. I can assure you that I will. This must also be seen in the context of the overall activity of society. Unemployment and possible unemployment in the sector we are talking about now need to be seen in the context of any other tasks that might be undertaken in other sectors. So my answer is, yes, I follow closely how unemployment develops.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e471	Thanks for the answer. Then I hope there will be more money for this sector next time. There was a majority who, in connection with the autumn budget, were very poorly pleased with the Ministry of Transport's overview of the situation in the civil engineering sector, and we have asked for a new review of the revised national budget, with proposals for action. It's not just that many people lose their jobs, many individuals become unemployed and family lir, but we lose competence if people stay away from this sector for a long time, and it's pretty hard to recruit. They talk to – and there are quite a few – describe the situation from being anxious to being coal black. I will then again ask the Council of State whether it will ensure that it has better up-to-date figures and proposals for action when it returns to the Stortningen in connection with the revised state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e482	As I said in my answer instead, we are working to identify the situation, and we will come back to this in the revised national budget. Then we will also assess whether the situation is such that there is a need for very special measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e487	There will be follow-up questions – Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e490	The question is not whether or not the Council of State is following, the question is whether or not the Council of State is doing anything. In the context of the State budget, the Council of State sent approx. 1 000 redundant workers from the former Road Administration, now Road Production, into unemployment or early retirement. We proposed $5.1 billion extra to build roads, so that we can maintain competitiveness in this country, and so that we can save all those who are killed or badly injured in traffic, but the government will do nothing. Now we know that there are thousands of unemployed workers who are in addition to those who have lost their jobs in restructuring and who could have been employed in other companies in the private market. My question is: will the Council stop following and rather initiate immediate action? Because it is now necessary, while competitiveness is weakened and people are mutilated in traffic. Or are there new photo boxes to be installed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e500	On the question of whether I intend to stop following, the answer is that I have not intended to stop following. When it comes to whether I'm going to do something, I'm going to report back that we're doing something all the time in relation to the use of state resources both in the road sector, in the railway sector, in the collective sector in general and in aviation. We're not going to end with this; we're going to continue with this. We're going to continue using state resources, and we're also going to continue using toll projects, which are also a contribution to ensuring that we have activity in this sector. I think it is reassuring to hear that the Progress Party has also been involved in road safety. That is quite right, we need to use both investment, operation and maintenance and a wide range of measures to improve road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e509	Jorunn Ringstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e512	It is not possible to assume that the Minister for Trade is responsible in an area that is extremely important for Norwegian business. Good framework conditions provide for communications that reduce distance costs, leading to an equivalent supply across the country. Now we have a focus on road, rail, maritime and aviation. I also want to mention it with broadband, which is not least important. In today's society, perhaps broadband and online communications are as important to many companies as transporting goods in one way or another. I want to challenge the Minister of Transport to say a little about the ideas in the field of broadband. We have had some seminars at Stortinget, where it is clear that without state involvement we do not get broadband throughout the country. There we can go to other countries and see that public funds have to go in to get it built up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e519	First of all, I would like to say that the representative, Mr Ringstad, is concerned with a very important element of Norwegian transport policy. Broadband is needed, and broadband is needed not least for industrial development. We are now two state councils today who could certainly say a lot about this. As for the state's involvement, I would say, yes, the state is important here. The state must lay good framework conditions, so that we can develop and build broadband. Broadband is located in many places in the country, and then it's about taking advantage of what's going on. It's a real challenge, a challenge we've been working on, and we're going to keep working on. The State can participate and make a concrete contribution on the demand side. The public sector can participate and contribute on the demand side, so that we get demand up and start a broadband activity that serves not least the districts. This is a development that is in progress and is going to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e526	Sigrun Eng – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e529	I think I'm basically saying that with some questions that we haven't been answered so far. The unemployment rate is just right in all sectors. The plant sector is no exception. The whole country is screaming for investments both in rail and road, and there is no lack of a final project. Free hands and free machines are ready, if there is a signal. People outside actually don't understand why we're going to let them become passive social security recipients instead of being allowed to build the country. The government party went to elections, among others. more money to go, something that we in the Committee on Transport are constantly reminded of when we're on country trips. In other words, there is a long way between life and learning. More attention is paid to reducing the cost of business, most of which is in the districts. So, everybody has something to win. How high does the Government think that the unemployment rate must come before action is taken, and is the Council of State concerned, as we are, for professionals to disappear if nothing is done now?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e542	We use considerable resources in the transport sector. In the road sector, we spend more than 11 billion dollars on government funds, and we spend $2 billion on tolls, to take it. On the railway, the state spends $5.5 billion. It's a high activity, and we're going to have a high activity on. I can assure you that we have in no way intended to stop the activity within the sector. With regard to whether unemployment is so worrying that we will initiate exceptional measures, it is of course a question I cannot answer here today. It has to be seen in a larger context. That is why we have said, we are standing by, and we believe that the right time to address it is in connection with a budget proposal for the Storting, it is the revised national budget or the state budget. So these are questions we're going to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e549	The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e554	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 5 and 6 from the representatives of Marit Arnstad and Åslaug Haga respectively to the Minister for Health are postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has departed. Questions 7, 8 and 9 from the representatives of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, Rune J. Skylaaen and Jorunn Ringstad respectively to the Minister for Health will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Health, who has been away. Question 10, from the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 11, from the representative, Mr Voksdal, to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been transferred to the Minister for Food and Trade, who is directing him. Question 12, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Food and Trade on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has been removed. Question 25, from the representative, Inger S. Enger, to the Minister for the Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Food and Trade who is directing him. At the request of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, this question is moved and answered in response to question 15, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 27, from the representative May Britt Vihoven to the Minister for the Environment, will be raised by the representative Frode Hervik.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e578	It is a pleasure that the Minister of Finance has found time to come to the Questionnaire so that I can ask the following questions: ‘In a press release on 8 July last year, the Minister for Finance announced that all allowances in the rules on luggage, except for meat, alcohol and tobacco, should be removed from 1 January of this year. The quota for meat products was to be increased from 3 to 10 kilograms. This was widely supported during the budgetary procedure. What is the reason why the Ministry of Finance is going back on this and will keep a total weight limit for food, including meat products, of 10 kilograms, and why are the new provisions not introduced from 1 January?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e587	I am happy to be able to answer this question also in Stortinget. The Ministry of Finance sent out this summer a proposal for a comprehensive cleaning and simplification of luggage regulations. It has, of course, been focused on the part of the proposal to suspend allowances and exemptions. As indicated in the press release to which the representative refers, this was a proposal and the plan was that the new legislation should take place on 1 January 2003. The proposal is also mentioned in the State budget where the Stortinget was informed that, after the Ministry of Finance has assessed the hearings received, the new regulation will be laid down as soon as possible. The majority of the Financial Committee, all except the members of the SV, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, took note of this. The legislation that now lapses had, among other things: quotas for duty-free imports of sugar and chocolate and sugar products. In addition, the duty-free quota of 10 kg dairy products, cereals, flour products, fruit, berries, vegetables, flower bulbs and tubers, cut roses, carnations and bridal veils was added to complete the list of the customs duties at that time. Within these 10 kg, up to 3 kg of meat, meat preparations and meat preparations could be included. For example, in the case of: car tyres, bicycles, refrigerators, freezers and television receivers could not be included at all with duty-free entry into Norway. Following the expiry of the consultation period, the Ministry of Finance made a careful assessment of the inputs made, which was more important than having the regulation adopted from 1 January 2003. As mentioned above, the regulation contains a number of provisions other than quotas for meat, etc., and this was reflected in what had to be considered. In view of the strong concern expressed in the consultation round, we modified the proposal somewhat by including cheese and feed in the quota of 10 kg. But let me make it clear that it's not a general quota for food. The quota of 10 kg covers only meat, cheese and feed. Therefore, you can bring 10 kg of meat, but you must leave the cheese – perhaps take the cheese with you the next time you visit the neighboring country. The rest of the food is only regulated by the general value limits, and they have, as I've been told before, increased by NOK 1000 for both shorter and longer visits, i.e. over or under 24 hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e602	I thank you for your answer. I am aware that the changes that have been made involve a significant cleanup, but when the Minister of Finance went out with this last summer, I think most people perceived it so that that clearing would be even better. We had a round at the end of last year because there were several things that were going under this quota. So you had to keep up what the Minister of Finance said in the press release it was going to be over, that the customs tariff uses resources to stamp out people's trading bags. So it ended up with cheese and meat being within the quota with feed. Does the Minister of Finance see that he has carried out an examination of this matter that has created expectation and confusion, and thus a delay that caused problems at the border at the turn of the year? What experience will he draw from the way he has handled the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e611	The answer to the first question is no. The answer to the second question, why the regulation was not established before, I have already answered in my first answer. I said that I paid attention to dealing with hearing opinions received properly and seriously rather than keeping a hint, but not promised, deadline at the turn of the year. I believe that hearings are actually there to hear. If you want to hear, you also have to look at what you get from answers. Then it's not unusual that you take them into account sometimes. But I repeat: the main content is still a significant cleanup, as the representative said, but also an embellishment. And so it's still allowed to take 10 kg of meat if you don't bring feed and cheese within the same quota.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e616	I fully agree with the Minister of Finance, and it is reassuring to hear that he believes that hearings are available, and that one is willing to make adjustments and assessments in the light of that. It's reassuring. But I hope the Minister of Finance can, without necessarily confirming it here in Stortinget, draw the experience that when he goes out and announces a reform, he should perhaps also mention in the press release that this should be consulted, and that perhaps one should think through the answers before drawing a final conclusion – because in the press release there was no indication that this should be heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e621	In the press release it was clarified that this was a hearing, and in the information to the Stortinget it was thoroughly underlined that this was a hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e630	I have a question for the Minister of Finance: ‘In Fredriksstad Blad on 13 January, it is stated that the Norwegian authorities have put 25-30 jobs at risk from the company Jackon through the introduction of a special Norwegian tax of 20 pst. on the greenhouse gas hydrofluorocarbon [[HFC]] Is the Council willing to enter into a dialogue with Jackon, and what will he do to secure the workplaces of the company?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e639	For the sake of order, let me make it clear that when reference is made to the ‘Norwegian authorities’, it is important that the representative is aware that it means the Norwegian Storing. The company Jackon AS, through the Chemical Federation, has had a political-led meeting in the Ministry of Finance prior to the imposition of the levy on so-called HFCs. There has also been a written correspondence between the company and the department. In other words, there has been dialogue, and there is still dialogue. If there are elements in the matter that are so far not presented, the Ministry is still open to receive such views from the company. Both environmental considerations and non-discrimination considerations suggest, in my opinion, that Jackon is not exempted from the environmental tax on HFCs in connection with the company’s production of extruded polystyrene. An exemption is assumed to create a pressure on the levy of other taxable persons. It appears difficult to find criteria that could lead to the delimitation of a tax exemption to this company. Such an exemption is presumed to have to be subject to prior approval by ESA, on the basis of the ESA’s new and more stringent environmental guidelines. The size has adopted the introduction of environmental taxes on greenhouse gases HFCs and PFCs from 1 January this year. The central objective of the charge is to limit the use of this type of gas and to rotate its use from heavy greenhouse gases to less powerful ones. Then we have to be prepared that it can also turn out unfortunate for individual companies. The Ministry does not have the basis to assume that Jackon’s competitiveness vis-à-vis foreign competitors using the same greenhouse gas in its production of extruded polystyrene is significantly altered. It is assumed that 20 pst. the HFCs used are emitted into the production process itself in such a production process, and this is initially an emission that is not subject to taxes on the production abroad of the Norwegian market, i.e. on the introduction of the corresponding product. In the case of imports, the levy will be calculated on the basis of 2,5 kg HFCs per. m3 extruded polystyrene, unless the amount of HFC in the imported product can be documented – i.e. less than this stencil. In relation to the competitiveness of Jackon on export markets, it can be stated that for enterprises registered as producers or importers, no duty on exported goods arises initially.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e652	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which unfortunately was very passive in relation to the current company and the current problem. What the Council of State mentions is that, as far as I know, competitiveness in relation to foreign competitors is not weakened is actually wrong. When introducing the import charge, Norway has chosen an environmental protection strategy different from Sweden and imposes a levy on HFCs on Norwegian companies, while the EU is currently discussing a strategy for phasing out HFCs. I have the following additional questions: does the Council of State wish to practise a policy on nutrition and the environment which does not harmonise with that of the other countries in Europe, thereby weakening the competitiveness of Norwegian industry and undermining Norwegian jobs? Or are you willing to engage in a dialogue to discuss other instruments in relation to this enterprise, which is actually the only enterprise covered by this decision in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e661	It's not, but it's the only one that produces this special product. And the special thing about this product is that part of the gas is going to produce what I in my answer called extruded polystyrene. Behind this stranger, it's probably hiding something that we in more popular language call isoporplates. So some of the gas goes into the actual production, but most of it stays in the product itself. In the case of imports of the corresponding product, the import product is charged to the part of the gas contained in the product, i.e. to production in Norway. The disagreement depends on how much disappears in the production, because only the Norwegian company is charged. However, if we are to have environmental taxes, it is impossible to avoid that it affects the environment, to say the least, and it is intended that we should seek to eliminate these types of gases from production until there are alternative gases that have a lot less, yes dramatically less, environmental impacts. So the idea of environmental taxes is actually that they should have a positive impact on the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e666	I thank the Council again for the answer, which is still passive in my opinion. It is true that this company, by concluding a phase-out agreement for the use of HFCs, had the opportunity to invest more resources in another production line where other greenhouse gases could be used. The company also wants to do this. They want to switch to using CO2 as a propellant. The problem is that when this is the only company in Norway that does not have the opportunity to benefit from the reimbursement scheme because the propellant gas diffuses in production, there is a significant deterioration in relation to foreign competitors. So my question remains if the Council of State can be willing to go into this case again, and especially on this basis, when it's the only company in Norway. The company is interested in concluding a phase-out agreement, and I believe that the Norwegian Government must be positive and contribute to securing Norwegian industrial workplaces. And here you have a golden opportunity for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e675	This is the same question asked for the third time. The answer is still the same. We have had a dialogue with the company, and we believe that the templates set for imports do not significantly weaken the company compared to foreign competitors. It is true that alternative production can happen with CO2. Of course, the enterprises abroad that have previously converted into it have a market advantage. But that's the way it really is. Those who convert early into environmentally sound production have a competitive advantage, especially if all countries apply greenhouse gas rules in a similar way. The fact that this enterprise is the only one in its kind does not make the enterprise more special, but it must be treated in accordance with the same rules as apply to others who have emissions of corresponding gases, HFCs and PFCs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e685	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The Transparency Committee announces a long waiting period for the examination of requests for directory transparency. The sharp increase in applications just before the deadline for the application expires is likely to increase the waiting time. At the same time, more applicants for transparency are older people, and according to the annual report of the Transparency Committee, 18 applicants are now dead. Does the Council of State see any possibility of shortening the duration of treatment in a way that also ensures legal certainty for applicants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e694	With a total applicant amount of approx. 12 500 pending cases will necessarily have to be resolved, but it is still expected that the length of proceedings will only increase for persons under 70 years of age. The selection will continue to give priority to persons over 70 years of age and, as a general rule, they will have answers within 12 months. When it is stated in the annual report that the duration of proceedings may increase to three years, this will only apply to persons under 70 years of age who submitted their application the last days before the deadline expires. On average, the duration of the proceedings will be lower — one and a half to two years. Per. On 1 January 2003, there were seven persons employed in the Secretariat. A new adviser is engaged and joined on 1 February. A further post as an adviser and a secretarial post has been announced, with an application deadline of 20 February. When they are employed, the Secretariat will consist of 10 persons. In addition, administrative changes have been made internally to the procedural procedures to reduce the length of the procedure. The members of the sample meet on average one week per week. months. Members have either other permanent jobs or duties to take care of, and this, not least for this reason, is likely to be of little relevance to increased meeting activities. In order to reduce the length of the procedure, the possibility of appointing several members to the committee could be envisaged. However, this is a solution I do not recommend. Firstly, it would take time to get these together with the existing members, and secondly, it would be possible to create unequal treatment if the members were to work only on parts of the applications and not approve the applications in plenary.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e707	I thank the Council of State for the positive answer. I agree, of course, that there is no good solution if you choose to try to reduce the processing time in a way that can lead to different treatments. I assume we agree on that. I also think it is positive that the Council of State here warns that resource use is actually escalating on the administrative side. I would like to ask – just to be absolutely sure that I have correctly understood the Council of State – whether it is such that all administrative resources that may shorten the processing time will be used, and if you see that one more position will be able to shorten the processing time in a way that is still in line with the principles of legal certainty, will you disclose this position?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e716	The questioner has quite rightly understood that a new consultant joined on 1 February and that two additional posts will be filled as soon as possible after 20 February, when the deadline for applying expires. These are some steps that have now been taken to do something about the processing time. If it should come up with information later, I will follow it up, because I have the same purpose as the questioner, namely to find out how to ensure predictability while being able to deal with matters in a similar way. Here this selection has had regular members who have been sitting and working together. It would be a different grip if we were to change that structure. But I will answer that I will follow this very carefully. If there is something that can be done administratively, I will follow closely and come back with the necessary measures if it turns out to be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e724	I have a question for the Minister of Justice: ‘At the hearing on participation in Schengen, the Oslo police considered that it could be difficult to obtain the necessary documentation of the border crossing in order to apply the first country rule to asylum seekers crossing the border between Norway and the Nordic EU countries after the border controls were removed. Can the Council of States clarify whether there are systems to document the border crossings of asylum seekers between Norway and the Nordic EU countries and whether this can be used to use the first country rule to refer asylum seekers to these countries?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e733	Schengen cooperation with EU Member States and Iceland became operational for Norway on 25 March 2001. The agreement gives us the right to participate in a single European travel freedom area and facilitates the gradual strengthening of cooperation and cohesion in Europe. The Schengen Agreement is based on the same basic idea as the Nordic passport union. From 1957, passport checks were lifted at international borders, so that passports could be traveled without passports between the Nordic countries. Within the Schengen area, the free movement of persons means that there is initially no personal control at the internal Schengen borders. Exceptionally, a country may reintroduce internal border controls where public policy considerations or the security of the country so require. At the same time, border controls at the external Schengen borders have been strengthened. The borders between Norway and the Nordic EU countries are internal Schengen borders. In order to address the disadvantages of non-compliance with internal border controls, the Schengen countries have agreed on compensatory measures to strengthen controls at the external borders and also controls within the Schengen area. These measures include, inter alia: strengthening police cooperation, the delivery of offenders, cooperation on visa issues and the establishment of a single information system, the Schengen Information System, SIS. The system is in place to enable the authorities of the Schengen countries to exchange information on persons and articles under the Schengen Convention. It is mainly recorded in the search of persons for the purpose of apprehension and extradition. Therefore, at the borders between Norway and the Nordic EU countries, which are internal Schengen borders, there is no external border control. Nor are there systems that document border crossings between Norway and the Nordic EU countries. EU Member States adopted in 1990 a Convention on which EU Member State is responsible for examining an asylum application. Norway participates in this Dublin cooperation by means of an association agreement to the Convention. A central fingerprint register, Eurodac, has been established in order to contribute to better identity clearance and the establishment of asylum-handling responsibilities. The register was opened for Norway on 15 January this year. Fingerprints and accompanying information are provided in Eurodac and will enable a better exchange of information between Dublin countries. Fingerprints may be taken by a foreigner aged 14 who is seeking asylum or who is arrested without being expelled in connection with the illegal crossing of the external Schengen border or who is illegally present in the country. Dublin cooperation and the creation of Eurodac will make it easier to decide which country is to deal with an asylum application.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e748	I thank the Council of State for the answer. But I have not received an answer to the question. Will it be easier to maintain the First Asylum Rule? What happens is that asylum seekers come from another country and from Norway. Norway will then become the first asylum country to which the asylum seeker comes, even if he comes from another Schengen country. Does the Council of State see it as a problem that Norway can become a first asylum country in Schengen cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e755	It appears that the Dublin cooperation and the Eurodac register have just been established in order to address the first-country asylum rule. With such a register as I have described here, which came into force on 15 January of this year, it will be easier to do something about the problem that the queryer has raised. That's from my first answer. I believe that this will make it easier – that is right – for all foreign agencies and the police to ensure that they get a first asylum rule, and to avoid what people can call asylum tourism.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e760	I'm not satisfied with the answer. Today, we experience that asylum seekers come from Nordic EU countries – from Sweden and from Finland – to Norway. Although they have been in another country, they come to Norway and get first-aid treatment here, because this is a safe and secure country. I would think that in both Sweden and Finland it is as safe as in Norway, but we are nevertheless the first asylum country. For human traffickers, it's a wanted affair. Does the Council of State see this as a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e767	It is clear from my first and my second response that not to follow the rules of the game is always considered a problem by the authorities. When the Dublin Convention exists, when cooperation exists — and Norway has a connection to it — and when we have the Eurodac system, it is precisely to ensure that the first-country rule is respected. I am well aware of the challenge the representative raises, because we had a situation in 1999, when suddenly people from Northern Iraq appeared in Norway who spoke fluently Swedish, German and Danish. It was obvious that they had not learned in a language course elsewhere. These were people who had moved from other countries in Europe. We reacted to these at the time of the action. This was at a time when the judicial authorities were responsible for the case. The Minister for Local Affairs, who is now in charge, is following this closely. She has stated in the past that the Eurodac system offers a good opportunity to ensure that the first-country rule can be practised. It has two principal markings: it marks the institution of asylum for those who need asylum and protection, and it combats asylum tourism for those who then move from one country to another. It is possible that the representative wants a situation that existed before Schengen cooperation, and that is a fair political position. When you have the Schengen cooperation, it is the means that I am now preparing, that we can use and that we are actively using.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e798	These questions are postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e805	This question, from Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa to the Minister of Health, will be answered by the Minister of Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister of Health, who has gone away.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e808	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘2500 children and young people are waiting for psychiatric treatment. Behind this number are many individuals and relatives who need help immediately. The queue was the same size a year ago. Is it the reorganization of hospitals to state enterprises that causes the Government to deprioritize this important area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e817	Fresh figures from the Norwegian Patient Register show that the Mental Health Excursion Plan provides results. The numbers show that 26 pst. More were admitted to treatment from the waiting list in the last tertiary in 2002 compared to the same period in 2001. This is a stable increase, which has been going on for several years. In 1998, 20 000 children and young people received treatment. The 2002 estimate suggests that well over 30 000 people received assistance last year. This field is not deprioritized. On the contrary, there is a greater commitment to mental health in the 2003 budget than ever. The reorganisation of undertakings shall not delay the fulfilment of the Roadworthiness Plan. Nor is there any indication that the waiting lists will be longer due to the reform. On the contrary, the waiting list for the third tertiary in 2002 shows that the number of children and young people waiting for treatment has been reduced from about 2,500 to about 2,300 compared to the same time in 2001. There are still too many people waiting for help, but still we are only halfway into the escalation plan and expect further reductions. As the Minister of Health has briefed Stortinget on earlier, the Ministry’s governance premises and conditions are clearly and clearly attached to the Roadmap for Mental Health. The supply of mental health shall be strengthened in its entirety, and funds provided as part of the plan shall be used for the purpose for which they have been granted. The governance documents for 2003 for regional health enterprises clarify the allocation of mental health: ‘The allocation shall enable the specialist health service to implement the planned strengthening of mental health protection. The conditions for the grant are that the level of activity must be continued in order to ensure that the offer in 2003 is at least at the same level as in 2002 and supplemented by the additional measures resulting from funds from the escalation plan.» At the same time, emphasis has been placed on the coherence of the budgetary approach for 2003 and 2004. Therefore, the guidance document discloses the indications that, if any non-delivery obligations are not met at the end of 2002 under the Road Safety Stepping Plan, this need to be corrected in the period 2003-2004. In conclusion, I would like to assure you that the Government is committed to the objectives of the escalation plan and that this will be implemented as planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e833	It is alarming that the Government, in spite of the Psychiatric Escalation Plan, does not deliver better results in such a vulnerable area. What we've seen in health care so far is, among other things. a series of new leader(s) with million wages and a senseless use of consulting services. So it's money that could have been used to treat patients. In addition, there is a threat of centralisation and cessation of supply, not to mention the dedemocratic process that is taking place. The Council of State then says that the level in 2003 should be kept at least to the level in 2002. Are more than 2 000 children and young people waiting in line, both in 2001 and by the end of 2002, really satisfied by the fact that more than 2 000 children and young people are waiting in line?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e842	Let it be said right away: the Minister of Health is not satisfied that we have so many children waiting for this kind of treatment. But the escalation plan must be followed. We have seen that there is a decrease in the number of children and young people waiting for treatment. We're not done with the plan. We will also follow developments in this area very closely. There is also a reporting system established by the undertakings per. tertiary, given in accordance with the guidance document. What I'm happy about is that there's no discussion about the plan. But there are changes, there are changes in line with what underlies the escalation plan. We won't be satisfied until those who need treatment get it. But as I said, the plan is being followed, the escalation is happening, and there are results to show.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e849	The centre party wonders whether the Government does not give priority to this area. It is reported e.g. from Health South and Health East, or BUP South and BUP East, about a slight decrease in activity. In Rogaland, there is 123 days waiting for paediatric psychiatric outpatients. And then, with a municipal economy, the government has to cut the total number of municipalities in 2003 from support hours to health stations, with the danger that the municipalities resulting from reduced prevention will actually be involved in making the need for much-needed help for mentally ill people even stronger. The Social Minister is responsible for the drugs field, and she knows what's going on right there. We're asking that the Government now really lift this field so that it becomes visible beyond the minimum that can be measured by statistics.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e856	The reorganisation of undertakings shall not delay the contingency plan. The field is not downgraded. In the escalator, St.prp. No 63 for 1997-98, a cautious escalation was foreseen in the early years due to staff shortages. The 2003 State budget proposes 670 million. kr more for the escalating plan. In total, 2.37 billion more were spent in 2003 than in 1998. In order to achieve the targets, an average escalation for the years 2004-2006 will have to be around 1 220 million. kr per. years. That's adding 670 million. more in the 2003 escalation plan could hardly be called anything other than prioritising the plan. But we're not done. I share the unrest to Meltveit Kleppa, precisely because this is a vulnerable group. This is something the Minister for Health is going to follow closely. This will also focus on when feedback from regional enterprises takes place under the governance document.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e866	This question, from the representative of the Minister for Health, Rune J. Skjellaaen, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e869	‘Health Finnmark has decided that the ambulance at Kunes in Lebesby municipality should be removed with effect from 1 February 2003. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the population of Inner Laksefjord receives an equivalent health/ambulance offer in line with the rest of the population?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e876	Let me first point out that the Finnmark population is entitled to an equivalent service offer in line with the rest of the population in Finland. There should be no doubt about it. This also applies to the security that a good ambulance service will be available if the need arises. Within the enterprise system, the overall responsibility of the Minister of Health for the functioning of emergency medical services lies with the requirements of the Specialist Health Service Act. That must and must be the starting point. At the same time, I would like to point out that it is important that health businesses are given the opportunity to fulfil the role that the Stortinge decision on the Health Business Act requires. It is a central element of the reform that the regional health business should be given opportunities to find good and coherent solutions for the region. Local health establishments shall also have the necessary flexibility in the practical operation. The model will play down if there is to be a practice of detail management from the central level in individual cases. However, this does not mean that, at the same time, within the business model, it is free from the way health businesses perform their tasks. It shall and must be carried out in accordance with the service requirements laid down by the Grand Duchy by legislative decisions and other decisions taken in this Chamber. The central health authorities have a management and follow-up responsibility to ensure that the services comply with the objectives set by policy bodies. In addition, in the event of doubt as to the adequacy of the services, the State Health and County Medical Supervisors have a supervisory responsibility. This is also important in relation to the follow-up to the overall responsibility of the Ministry of Health for the effective functioning of healthcare. The main objective of the changes in the Finnish Ambulance Service is to meet a target of professional safety with two-man ambulances. From 1 February, ambulance missions in the Kunes area will be carried out through the ambulance bases in Lakselv, Mehamn and Kjøllefjord and the 330-square in Lakselv. The rescue helicopter from the 330 squadron performs ambulance services throughout Finnland when not in rescue operations and is particularly used in most acute disease cases and also in difficult weather conditions. The change in the ambulance structure has been presented to the County doctor in Finnmark, who concludes that a closure was not professionally irresponsible. However, the County Board points out that it would be desirable for the municipality of Health Finnmark and Lebesby to look together at alternative options to take care of the emergency medical competence and preparedness in the area. This has been followed up by the board of Health Finnmark. So far, one car is being prepared to be equipped with emergency medical equipment, manned by qualified ambulance workers, who shall be able to evacuate with assistance to sick or injured patients pending the nearest ambulance. Health Finnmark will take the initiative to have a meeting with the municipality, where Health Nord Regional Health Companies will participate, to discuss further progress in the process of reaching an agreement between Health Finnmark and the municipality. This case has naturally created a great commitment among the population, and Health Finnmark has also, in cooperation with the action management at Kunes, invited to a public meeting in week 8. Last week the ministry also received a complaint against the decision in Health Finnmark from the municipality of Lebesby. This matter will be dealt with quickly by the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e889	I thank the Council of State for the answer. When this ambulance is closed, the ambulance is to be stationed in Kjøllefjord, Mehamn or Lakselv. Kjøllefjord – Mehamn, Rv 889, is actually closed or run in a column five months a year. For Lakselv it's 15 miles to go. I drove sail that way last Friday in snowflake. It's actually just 17 pst. of the population who will be covered by ambulances within a response time of 60 minutes, as the Finnish Ambulance Plan says it should be. All 80 pst. Thus, of the 360 inhabitants, the coverage will be lower than that defined by the Ambulance Plan for Finnmark as a minimum response time for pig-grown strokes. The municipality has assessed this with an emergency car, which has been mentioned, but they reject it, because they do not actually have the right to have any patients in this emergency car. People in the hospital are in despair – everyone is in despair – and there is a great deal of concern about this that is happening in a town that is actually growing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e896	I'm not really sure if this was a question, but after what I understand, there's an underlying concern about what's happening in the area, especially relating to Kunes. What I can stress is that the Ministry of Health has received a complaint from the rapporteur. There will soon be a meeting with the municipality, where Health Finnmark and Health Nord will also attend. It has been invited to a public meeting, and there has been a clear expression of the commitment of the population. The complaint received by the Ministry of Health will be dealt with quickly, and the issue will be discussed and dealt with there. I also see that the County Board in Finnmark has concluded that a closure was not unscrupulous, but that it is also pointed out that it would be desirable for the municipality of Healthen Finnmark and Lebesby to look together at alternative options to take care of exactly what is going on in the emergency skills that lie there, and on the preparedness in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e903	Then I want to ask you a specific question. So now the municipality has complained. The question is whether the ambulance can be allowed to operate as long as the complaint is pending. That is something that I also know about the municipality of Lebesby through the rapporteur has asked questions about in this complaint.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e910	The starting point is that last week the Ministry received a complaint. We'll evaluate it. There has been contact between Health Finnmark, the municipality and Health Nord to get to a meeting. I take the views of the Ministry of Health back, but the point is at least that the Ministry of Health will deal with this complaint as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e919	This question, too, from the representative of Jorunn Ringstad to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e922	«Health West has announced that they will have to save about 600 million. kr for the next 2 years. This will have to lead to a reduction in current health supply. Will the Council of State make more resources available, or will it do something to prepare the inhabitants of the Health West region for reduced health supply?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e929	From the turn of the year 2001 to 2002 onwards, it has been clear that the service will face significant challenges for the use of resources in order to continue the high level of treatment. This is both a question of how much money is put at the disposal and a question of how much money is used. I will first briefly comment on each of these two questions before mentioning the situation of the Health West. In Appendix No 4 in the 2002 draft budget, it was announced that there was uncertainty about the resource situation of the new enterprises and that a review would therefore be carried out in the coming months. This ended with the presentation of St.prp. No 59 for 2001-2002. It was assumed here that enterprises had an economic imbalance of approximately NOK 2.6 billion. In order to respond to this situation, an additional amount of DKr 1.3 billion was granted, while assuming that enterprises over the years 2002 and 2003 would increase the efficiency of operations in the same order of magnitude. This approach was based on a comprehensive dialogue between the Ministry of Health and regional health businesses. After treatment of St.prp. No 59 the changes that made the economic assumptions for the operation of the entities more demanding. The general profile, which developed gradually for the 2002 wage-earnings, contributed to a more expensive settlement than that on which the 2002 budget was based. Doubts also arose about what would become pension costs and pension contributions in 2002. Time has shown that in the near future there have been as many increases in pension costs as there have been many fears. In any case, however, wage-fixing and increased financial costs — including as a result of higher premium payments — have distorted the economic situation of enterprises. Against this background, the 2003 budget line is based on an additional year for enterprises to balance their finances, i.e. 2004 could also be used for implementing the precisely conversion measures. The point of this additional year is precisely to avoid firms being forced to cut down on the patient offer, in order to ensure that the overall patient offer can be maintained. The follow-up to the 2003 budget decision will take place in a governance dialogue with the Stortinget. In the context of the revised national budget, a briefing will be given on the arrangements for the measures, as requested by the Stortinget. Furthermore, the 2004 draft budget will provide a comprehensive and up-to-date information on the situation, in order to enable the size of the budget to be assessed on this basis. This constitutes the general basis for the implementation of the 2003 budget by the Health West. It is therefore a central point that the possibility of seeing 2003 and 2004 in the context should contribute to the proper care of patients. Finally, I would like to add that there are, as you know, investigations with proposals for changes to the device of Health West's offer. This must not be confused with the existence of final decisions. First, Health West, based on the processes now being implemented, will deal with the proposals. Thereafter, for all decisions that have a significant impact on the health offer, an assessment will be made by the Ministry of Health and, where appropriate, decided at the business meeting. Attention needs to be paid to the fact that the Health West regime has now been given an overall mission to provide the region's population with specialist health services. However, as I have said, this does not mean that the assessments and measures are exempted from overall political control.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e946	I thank you for your answer. I notice that the Council of State also pointed out that there is an economic imbalance between the economy that Health West has and the tasks that Health West is going to solve. So the Council of State also says that here one should cut down on supply, more effectively. In the case of Health West, one has been briefed through the media and also through direct briefings from members of the Health West Board that the savings and efficiency improvements they need to make, for example: is to shut down the maternity ward and cut emergency facilities in several hospitals. It's the same thing as several of the small hospitals are going to be gone as hospitals. It means, in short, that people in the Health West region do not get the same offer they have had – so they get a worse offer. How can the Council of States defend that we will then have an equal supply as before, when many offers are gone?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e955	It is a central point that the opportunities to see 2003 and 2004 in the context should contribute to the proper care of patients. Attention must also be paid to the fact that the Health West Board has been given an overall mission to provide the region's population with specialist health services. But that does not mean, as I stressed in my main post, that assessments and actions are exempted from overall political control. Examining and looking at the consequences of investigations is not the same as making final decisions. The fact that professionals carry out proper analyses has a value in itself. I'm going to follow closely what's happening in Health-Norway, and of course I'll do it in relation to the economic situation. But Health West must be given the opportunity to do exactly what they are going to do, namely have an overall offer to the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e962	I am also aware that the distributions and proposals that have been made have not led to final decisions and should not be implemented without a closer look at them. But it is also not to hide that if a health region is to save 600 million. kr over two years, it must have some consequences for the supply that is there. And only the fact that patients get longer distances, maybe have to travel all day in order to get the specialty they need, will most of all be perceived by people as having been offered worse here. The councils also said in their first response that Health West has got a little worse terms when it comes to allocating funds. I would like to ask the Council of State whether Health West will receive a more favourable allocation of funds in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e969	Now I didn't say that Health West had bigger challenges than others. There are challenges in relation to the changes to be made and the budgetary situation. It has therefore also been important to be able to see the 2003 budget year in the context of 2004. It is important not to intervene in relation to investigations from a central point of view, on the basis of the governance structure laid down. I hear the representative is in the very same mindset. It must be possible for Health West to carry out its tasks, namely to have a complete device in relation to the mission they have been given. Then investigations are important. That's not how far a decision has been made. Health West will still have that work. The board has that challenge. But that's not how, as I underlined in my main post, the overall political authority doesn't follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e990	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e996	This question, from the representative of Øyvind Vaksdal to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Food and Trade, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e999	I want to ask you the following questions: ‘The Offshore Rosenberg in Stavanger has lost the Snow White contract to the Spanish shipyard Dragados Offshore. The reason shall be large price differences. Following a similar case last year, the Stortinget Government provided a description of the situation in the Norwegian offshore workshop industry and reviewed the competitive situation of this industry in relation to other EEA countries. What has the Government done so far in this matter, and what will it do to ensure this important industry competitive framework?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1008	What the government has done in this matter since we got it on the table is that we had the first meeting on 30 October last year with representatives of the TBL, the Joint Alliance and the trustees in the yard and representatives of the management of Kværner. At that meeting, I asked myself a written statement from the group about how they assessed this, and what a request they had for me to take this matter further. I have since met the owner of Aker Kværner, and I have had meetings with the group management in Aker Kværner. We usually collect information as far as you can do it through open, public channels, and this culminated in a meeting I had with EU Commissioner Monti on 7 January this year on these things. He asked us to submit documentation. We had the results of the work that the trustees in Kværner had done, which was a very good and thorough work. There was a lot of factual information plus a lot of suggestions that there was reason to look further. Afterwards we have had further contact with, among others. TBL and the Joint Alliance, where they have provided more documentation, but perhaps not as much as we thought. The situation was that when I came home last Saturday – after I had been in America for four days – I had called all these again. What I recognized at the time was that we evaluated it so that I would not be able to access this documentation via regular channels. Then I decided that together with the Joint Alliance and the TBL, I would create a project, using the resources needed to find out the competitive relationship between Norway and Spain, France and the Netherlands. We have a reference group where these parties are involved in trying to discover both legal and illegal issues related to the competitive relationship between these countries. We cannot live with a situation where there are many allegations of illegalities. This needs to be checked out. We have, as I said, a project where we put in so much resources that I expect we'll be done by the end of March.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1017	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Unfortunately, we now see that large parts of our industry lag behind in the competition with industry from other countries. The offshore authorities are currently the last example of this. At the same time, we hear allegations, or suggestions, about hidden, legal or illegal subsidisation in the form of restructuring or conversion funds. Has the government so far in the process found out whether such hidden subsidies have been used in the Dragados case or other similar cases? What is done in the case of the Government to bring this to life?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1024	It is in the nature of the matter that I per. there is no evidence at present to prove that this yard has used illegal subsidies. What we now need to clarify is how much legal funding you have received. We are investigating research aid, regional aid, environmental aid, training aid and whatever it is now called. There are, of course, large regional programmes in the European Union, which significantly channel money to areas that are weak and where, for example, they are. unemployment is high. In this Spanish area, I have realized that the unemployment rate is 25-30 p.m., and then it triggers a number of EU schemes. Statoil believes, as far as I have understood from the media, that legal support plus large differences in compensation of employees must be the reason for this difference. Whether there is illegal support is, of course, of the things that I might want to reveal. Insofar as I reveal it, there will be a new round with the European Commissioner and a presentation of the case to the Commission, which will have to be investigated in Spain.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1031	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Kværner Egersund lost a major contract last year to Dragados in Spain, and now we have seen the same thing about the Snow White contract, where Kværner Rosenberg lost the contract to the same Spanish yard. This may result in redundancies, lay-offs and fragmentation of environments of competence that have taken decades to build up. Is not the Government concerned about the negative development of this important industry? What concrete action will the Government take to strengthen the competitive situation of the Norwegian offshore yard?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1038	I also have the concern of the representative, Mr Vaksdal. The bottom line concern is that Norwegian competitive business loses competitiveness compared to other countries for every year running, and it has happened over time. Now, however, it cannot be a big surprise to the Stortinget that more contracts were awarded to the rest of the world in the context of the Snow White Development process, because the Stortinget knew at the time when the Snow White Development was approved that probably as much as 60 pst. of the contracts would be with non-resident companies. But it's worrying if we're going to keep losing competitiveness every year. That's why the government wants to do something about this. We know which elements weigh the most in the lost competitive relationship, and there are interest rates, dollar rates and too high pay supplements for many consecutive years. Then it is clear that what we do with the parties in terms of wage development is very important. I think this spring's payroll can be a break in terms of improving the competitiveness of Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1049	This question, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Food and Trade on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1052	I have the following questions: ‘In East Agder several landowners have plans to build either micro, mini or small power plants, inter alia. in Tovdalselva. The national potential of such power plants is estimated to be up to 15 TWh. The lack of power is now speeding up the realisation of this required capacity. Many, however, face a huge amount of time - consuming bureaucracy; others have problems with watercourse protection. Such environmentally friendly small power plants should also be able to be built in sheltered watercourses such as Tovdalselva. What does the Government think about this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1061	Then I will be allowed to give the following answers on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy: In order to contribute to power discovery and industrial development in districts, the Government is committed to facilitating the development of small-scale power plants. As a general rule, such installations involve small conflicts with environmental interests. In order to make the process of setting up small power plants more efficient and less complicated for builders, the NVE is now delegated competence to take decisions for build-ups with installed power up to 5 MW if the treatment is limited to the Water Resource Act. The proposal for amendments to the Industrial Concession Act and the Waterways Regulatory Act, which are now being consulted, proposes to raise the concession limit in the Industrial Concession Act from 1000 to 4000 nights. The change will lead to further simplification of the procedure for small power plants, while the revised limit will be approximately equivalent to an installed power of 5 MW. In this way, legislation is harmonised. The size has determined that there is no possibility of granting concessions for power development in sheltered watercourses. Projects which do not trigger a concession obligation are permitted on their part. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has now been sent the NVE’s decision to supplement the Verne plan for watercourses. The setting opens for the concession treatment of micro and mini-power plants in sheltered watercourses. The NVE believes that concession treatment will provide a better basis for assessing the environmental impact of an action than the current system, where it is crucial to trigger the concession obligation. There are many good reasons to equate the construction of micro and mini-power plants with other types of measures in sheltered watercourses. The Government will therefore consider this issue in the proposition to be made at the end of the year for supplementing the Watercourse Protection Plan. A prerequisite for allowing such expansions in sheltered watercourses must be that we do not impair the protection values of the watercourse. With the measures I have now outlined, there should be a good opportunity to realize a significant number of the planned micro, mini and small power plants around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1074	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I would like to interpret to that it was not so bad. It is such that the potential for exploitation of this type of power plant is estimated to be up to 15 TWh at land level, and part of it is then subject to protection. And just to stick to 15 TWh: it's a tremendously interesting potential we're talking about in these times with increasing power shortages. This corresponds to the energy supply to around 750,000 households. We have also seen that there has been a great interest in recent years in implementing such mini-, micro- and small-scale power plant projects. But I have been in contact with many people who have major problems in realizing their projects because of protection, and they almost experience it as hopeless to get this started. That's what's behind my question, and I almost have to ask: is it protection or is it the power supply that is the most important thing for the Government in these times of lack of power?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1083	The representative made an interpretation of the answer, which he defined as not very bad. And when a southerner says that something is not so bad, he really believes that this is very good. That was promising. I fully agree with what is the questioner's starting point, the possibilities that lie in these small power plants. I myself, both in this job and in my previous job here in the house, have tried to assist with some such local projects, and some are realized. There is no doubt that there is a point that these have often taken time to realize. There's a lot of authorities here implicated. I feel that the Minister of Oil and Energy is concerned about, through the proposals I have made, that this should go better, in order to trigger the potential of small power plants. It has three effects in my view, one is increased access to power, the other is that it gives landowners in the districts new income opportunities, thus allowing both employment and housing in the districts, where the local resources are actually used. This is also, in my opinion, a good business policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1090	I interpret it as meaning that, to the extent that the Government follows up what it said in the Sem Declaration, is positively set up, will stimulate the construction of such power stations we are talking about here, and will promote proposals that result in a faster procedure. Those who have experienced a lot of bureaucracy and delays will face a simplified regulatory framework for this in the future. With that, I think we'll see how this will turn out in the practical life of the future, and I don't think there is a need for any further follow-up questions. But if the Council of State has a comment, he must be allowed to make it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1097	Out of respect for the use of time both in Stortinget and elsewhere, I shall limit the comment to saying that I definitely believe the oil and energy minister shares the starting point that the questioner has. It has many positive implications to implement these things. I think we also share the view that more bureaucracy than is most necessary, we're going to try to avoid. There are opinions that I think the entire government shares.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1107	‘In the government budget for this year, the Government halved the grant to the School Leisure Scheme. We are already seeing the results in terms of increased self-payment and reduced offers in several municipalities. The SFO offer is of great importance to many families. An overall education committee asked in the budget setting for the Government to return to the Storting with a comprehensive plan for the development of the school leisure system. When will the Council of State submit such a plan to the Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1114	Municipalities shall have an offer of school leisure arrangements before and after schooling for 1–4. class step. The development and definition of the content, organisation and operation of the school leisure system is a municipal responsibility. State grants for the operation of the school leisure scheme were granted in the establishment phase as earmarked grants. In order to reduce the amount of earmarked grants to municipalities, the Stortinget decided to include the grant in the framework grant to the municipalities from 1 August 2003 in the treatment of the municipality’s proposal for 2003. I intend to make a proposal on the necessary changes to the Training Act as a result of the inclusion of the Framework Grant in the spring of 2003. When examining the 2003 State budget, the Stortinget decided, in conjunction with the inclusion of the Framework Grant, to also reduce the State grant to the School Leisure Scheme by 217 million. kr. The Ministry has estimated that 128 500 children will use the school leisure scheme in 2003. The reduction of 217 million. NOK, if the municipalities do not choose to cover all or part of it themselves, will mean an average increase in the annual parental payment of NOK 1689 per person. a child. This corresponds to approx. 150 kroner per month. months. The length of the stay has not been taken into account. A national evaluation of the school leisure scheme was carried out by Nord-Trøndelagsforschung and presented in spring 2002. The evaluation is described in St.prp. No 1 for 2003. Although the quality of the school leisure system varies between and within municipalities, the evaluation showed that most parents are satisfied with the offer and that the children thrive. Parents of disabled children, however, were less satisfied with the offer to their children. The school leisure system must continue to be designed on the basis of local needs and assumptions. It is a municipal responsibility both to establish the school leisure system and to improve and further develop the offer. I will return to the 2004 budget with a plan for the development of the school leisure system, as the Committee has requested. The plan will build on municipal responsibility for the provision and clarify the ways in which the State can contribute to the development of the school leisure system, in cooperation with the municipalities. The School Leisure Scheme provides room for cooperation with municipal music and cultural schools, associations and others working with cultural activities. It is therefore also natural to address the content of the school leisure scheme in the key messages on culture and cultural experiences in and in relation to school, and this communication comes as we know it in spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1131	I would first like to thank you for the positive answer, and for the intention of the Council of State to return to the Grand Duchy with a plan for the school leisure system. As the Council of State explained, it is a cut in the 217 - million school vacation scheme. kr this year. When the Stortinget introduced the school leisure scheme through a call for a call for proposals in 1997, the majority commented as follows: ‘The majority believe that the school leisure arrangements are entirely decisive to provide children in primary school and parents with the necessary security and stability in everyday life. The State must ensure the economy of the school leisure system so that there are no unnecessary differences between students.’» My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State have a different opinion from that of the majority of the Stortinges when the position on the SFO was adopted in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1143	I don't have that in and out of my mind. I have to say, of course, that what we proposed in connection with the last draft budget is not a cut I am happy about, but it was a cut that was necessary to make for the whole budget. As I have explained earlier from this speaker, the total budget and net growth of the Ministry of Education and Research budget are quite strong for the current year, but it also contains some cuts, of which this is one. I also believe that the school leisure system is important. The state assumes responsibility for the economy, but it is normal and in line with the principles we have laid down here in this Chamber, that this with earmarked schemes is something to be used in an establishment phase when a new service offer is phased in, so to speak, within the responsibility of the municipalities, and then go away from earmarking. Leaving aside earmarking means, of course, that the state continues to take responsibility, but then it assumes responsibility for the entire service provision within the framework funding system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1150	When you cut $217 million. It can be seen that this has had an impact on the school leisure system, that a number of municipalities have made a number of offers, and that a number of municipalities have notified and made large price increases in the school leisure system. It can also be seen that some parent groups have difficulties in making use of this offer. In today’s society, many depend on the school leisure system, both those in work, those in education and our new countrymen, for whom this offer is particularly important in relation to integration. If the Stortinge is to take the responsibility that they have here – after removing the earmarked grants and taking responsibility within the framework funding system – it means that the Stortinge will still have to follow up with funds. My question will then be: Can we expect greater state subsidies in the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1157	I do not think that we should assume that there will be greater State subsidies, even if, of course, we cannot explain exactly what future budgets are. I believe that the State, in cooperation with the municipalities and local authorities, can help to develop and improve and improve the quality of the school leisure system independently of purely budgetary measures. But all in all, at least I am not able to present a government budget, where there is usually strong growth in regulatory arrangements, and where there are important areas of activity on which there is quite a broad consensus in this room, without also presenting a single cut. After an overall assessment, this was an area that we prioritised lower than the areas where there has been a massive increase in the budget. I trust that the municipalities can do a lot, but I also believe that the state can contribute to cooperation with the municipalities through legal and regulatory works, development of competences, dissemination of experience, cooperation between cultural and organisational life, communities, etc. I'll come back to that, as I said.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1167	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘A company in Ålesund is now seeking to acquire trawlers resident in Finnmark and to exempt them from the obligation to deliver the fish to specific industrial plants in Finnmark. These are trawlers who have been granted a concession only because they had to secure raw material supplies to the fishing industry in Finnmark. Will the Council of State ensure that these trawls continue to be connected to and universally obliged to industrial installations as foreseen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1176	Based on the question to representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, I would first like to say that I am aware that there are two issues that might fall under the question. One relates to a request from West Fish — Aarsetther AS for the purchase of a major shareholding in Nordic Sea Holding AS, a company based in Tromsø, which has been granted, among others. multiple vessel cod trawl concessions. This application is now under consideration in the Directorate-General for Fisheries' external offices, and since it has not arrived at my table, I cannot comment more specifically on the specific matter. The second case concerns an application from a fishing trawler company in Ålesund for an authorisation to acquire a trawler belonging to Finnmark owned by Nordic Sea Holding AS. This application was recently rejected by the Directorate of Fisheries in view of the regional distribution of the fishing fleet, in line with what I understand, is the intention of the questioner’s issue. At this stage, the matter is not pending. There's reason to think it might be. However, it is not contested and, as such, it is not dealt with in the fisheries management. But on a more general basis, I can say that it is right that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen points out that the trawlers in both of these two cases are linked to certain industrial activities and are subject to universal service obligations. However, two of the trawls owned by Nordic Sea Holding AS shall not ensure raw material for installations in Finnmark but in Northernland. Fresh fish trawls are essentially owned by companies which also own fishing industry holdings. The main basis for the authorisation of acquisition of the vessels is that the vessels must ensure the supplies of raw materials to individual companies' own facilities. As I see it, the principle that trawlers should supply and secure the industry on land will also guide in the years to come. West Fish – Aarsetther AS is itself the owner of both fishing industry farms in Finnmark and trawlers that have universal obligations for these plants in Finnmark. The relationship between industry and fleets is thus linked to Finnmark for this company as well as to some of the Nordic Sea Holding AS" trawlers. Let me also stress that I would like to state that a change of ownership of trawlers linked to specific establishments or regions will not necessarily change the assumptions on which vessels are to supply raw materials. It is my clear ambition, my clear intention, that it should not help to distort the share of raw material supply to North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1191	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased with the information that the Directorate of Fisheries has rejected the request that a vessel be taken out of Finnmark. I hope and assume that the Council of State will stand firm in the same way to the extent that it has to come up with an appeal. These issues raise two important fisheries policy issues. One is how to ensure a wide-ranging fishing environment in Finnmark, which has had a decline in important fleet groups and where sales will weaken this environment. The second is universal service to ensure access to raw material for industry. I stress what the Council of State also does, that it is important that the trawls ensure the supply of raw materials to industry. Therefore, it is also important to ensure that the links between industry and trawlers are not loosened. I allow myself to ask the Council of State: can I understand the Council of State's response so that he will attach great importance to continuing the universal service that is today, and to enforcing it clearly and unambiguously?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1202	As I have stated earlier, I have no ambition to weaken the delivery obligations. But on the other hand, we have to recognise that there are changes in the industrial structure, there are changes in ownership structures compared to what was originally. That is why I have stated that we in the department are now reviewing the delivery terms and see if it is more appropriate to link the delivery obligations to a region than to specific installations. But no decisions have been made. In relation to the case that was referred to in the question, I record that the company that has now received its application decided, and which might have to find the basis for the complaint, has clearly stated that it will not move the company or activity from Finnmark. Nor does it consider it appropriate to apply for a weakening of delivery obligations, because the ministry has made it so clear that it is not. But that matter is, as I said, settled, and unless it should be appealed, it will not come to my table.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1209	I allow myself first to stress what I said on my previous question, which is that it is important to maintain links between industry and trawlers. We have seen several examples of trawlers being solved in relation to commitments to industry, and that enforcement of universal service obligations has been more difficult. The second is that for my part and for the Workers' Party, I will warn against changing the delivery conditions from plant to region because it will make individual plants and vulnerable communities more vulnerable to failure of the raw material supply. Then I recognize that there are changes in ownership structures. At the same time, I would like to stress very strongly, as the Council of State has so rightly said, that the whole background for these trawls to have their concession is that they are to supply raw materials and secure the activity of precisely specific facilities and specific communities. That is why it is important for the Council of State to stand by it. It is also important to have more consistent enforcement, as soon as possible, of the consequences, serious consequences, for those who break them. I look forward to it being implemented by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1218	I agree that there is a need for more consistent enforcement of the delivery conditions, because changing state councils have not managed them through time in as clear and clear a way as what I have signaled that we should do. But we also need to recognise that this is a change in the industrial structure. We have a concrete case in Northern Ireland where it may be problematic to start industrial activities at a plant for which the trawls have delivery obligations. Then we have to admit that we might have to consider reconsidering it, make sure that the delivery obligations of a region will be better able to meet the total needs of the industry than to maintain the delivery obligations of one industrial enterprise that is no longer up-to-date. It is a matter for us to take into account, and my clear ambition, the objective, is that the delivery obligations, as the trawls have given them, are a condition to be complied with. But once again, we have to take inwards the structural changes that are going on, and then we have to adapt it as best we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1229	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Industry the following questions: ‘The Minister of Economic Affairs said to TV 2 on Thursday 30 January that he would carry out a full review of Norwegian shipping policy. In this context, will the Council of State consider introducing a net pay scheme for Norwegian seafarers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1238	I think I'll take the same introduction as Simonsen's representative: it was a pleasure for him to ask the question, and to me it's a pleasure to be able to answer! The answer to the question from the representative Simonsen whether I will assess net wages for Norwegian seafarers as part of the review we have of Norwegian shipping policy and Norwegian maritime policy, too, is no doubt about it: it is a natural thing. I am fully aware of the importance it has for Norwegian seafarers' employment that we have this scheme, and the consequences it will have to make adjustments in it. I am also given the meaning of no matter what frame you had to choose at last, given that you do not choose, for example. full net wages for the entire fleet, according to my judgement, the Stortinget must look at in a broader review: What types of ships do you prioritize, and what do you not prioritize? Within the economic framework we now have, which has been agreed with the Progress Party as a lower level out of this process of enlargement, we see, for example. that the offshore surface is located at the lower edge of 10 pst., while e.g. ferries are 40 pst. Let me also take the opportunity to fix something. I probably made a wrong impression in the spontaneous question hour, where I said that the offset was out of the reimbursement system. That's not the reality. It was a proposal from the last Labour Party government to take it out, but it was not adopted. This will be corrected for the sake of the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1249	Then you might say that the answer was so happy. It is such that a number of EU countries have set up tax, social security and tax incentives to stimulate employment of seafarers exposed to international competition. Countries such as Denmark, Sweden, Finland, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom have different solutions, which have in common the fact that European seafarers are far on the road free of tax. You're not in Norway. I am therefore pleased that this is thoroughly assessed. The question is, of course, also how quickly this can happen, and in what form this will come back to Stortinget, so that the Stortinget can have an overall debate on Norwegian shipping policy. These are very many seafarers and very many in the shipping industry and maritime industries waiting for a clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1256	Now, in connection with the big message that I'm going to start working on, this is one of many elements involved in looking at the entire maritime cluster, from A to Å. There are many other things that are very interesting at the moment. It has to do with what's going on in the IMO. It has to do with the possibility of getting more of the traffic on the keel. It has to do with environmental challenges related to coastal transport, etc. and not least, of course, Norwegian shipping companies from Norway. It's a natural piece of an overall review that you take into account what's related to the pay conditions for seafarers — it's definitely that. But producing a big message, neither the Stortinget nor the Government detracts from the ability to act in the intervening period. It is now the case that there is a proposal in the Storting Food Committee for evaluation, where the setting is available in a relatively short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1265	I am pleased with the clarification that it is fully possible to implement schemes, such as a net pay scheme, before this shipping message is completed. Now there'll be a government budget again pretty soon. It's hopefully possible to do something on that occasion. If not, then this shipping message, when it is finished, is a description of how Norway was closed as a large shipping nation, and how the maritime industries were destroyed by an action-damaged government. That is why I hope the Government will take a hold on this for a long time before you are done with the shipping message.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1270	I absolutely share the fear that there will be a situation where there will be a history book I will present. However, I think that would be to exaggerate significantly in relation to the challenges we have. But that there are major challenges, there is no doubt about it. Clearly, our overall cost level is such that when we are going to compete with seafarers from countries that, as Simonsen's representative says, have tax freedom, as is the case, it becomes major challenges. But, as I said, the Stortinget has never deprived itself of the opportunity, as far as I have been in any case, to discuss the framework conditions for Norwegian seafarers neither in the context of the revised national budget nor in the ordinary budgetary procedure. That hasn't been the case in the eight or ten years I've been here at least. So that opportunity I think Stortinget will take advantage of in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1280	Now we're going to go to question number. 25-digit number
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1287	This question, from the representative of Mr Inger S. Enger to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1290	It is a pleasure for me to ask this question to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘Environmental car Grenland AS has developed a concept for electric cars. The battery type they use is exempt from EU legislation until 2005. The development of a new, pollution-free battery is possible at SINTEF in Trondheim, but it costs 10 million. kr. The company's got $7 million. kr from private actors. Application to the Research Council just before Christmas gave negative results. Tapping this national environmental action would be bad. What can the Council of State do to prevent the Environmental Car Grenland AS from meeting the wall just before the target?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1299	As the representative of Enger will be aware, a number of measures have been implemented by the Government to increase the use of environmentally friendly transport in Norway. This was duly addressed in the context of the so-called Think case, all the tax changes that have been made in order to increase use, and the measures that the Minister for Transport has taken and has put in place in this way. In terms of concrete support for the development of a single project, it will be a task for what we usually call the instrument. I am not fully familiar with the project in question, but I have been informed that Umweltbil Grenland has previously received funding for a project from the Research Council and, as far as I know, has also received 500,000 kroner from the Road Directorate. Further support for the project has been assessed by the Research Council in the Energy, Environment, Construction and Facilities Programme, which has its funding from the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Industry and Trade, but the Research Council did not find it possible to prioritise support for the project within the framework they have and adopted by the Stortinget. The Ministry's leadership in appropriations for the Research Council is given at an overall level. It is within the framework that the Research Council must independently assess the individual actions, individual applications, and be responsible for them. So the review of the Research Council in individual cases by my side is not part of a normal procedure. However, in order to stimulate firms to invest more in research and development, the government introduced a scheme of up to 20 pst from 2002. tax evasion of the expenditure of enterprises for specific R & D projects. This also includes purchases of R & D services. As I understand it, the Environmental Car Grenland project will also fall within this scheme and will actually be able to obtain significant relief for the R & D costs they have for this specific project.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1310	I thank you for the answer so far. As you know, the question was originally addressed to the Minister for the Environment, since I had at least thought that this would go under what was going on in environmental research, which the minister was also involved in. We know that this research pot was reduced in the budget agreement, but I had hoped that the Minister of Industry would have had more tools in his sleeve and would have been able to shake it up a bit today. Environment car Grenland has a unique opportunity to develop an environmentally friendly urban car. In 2002, 250 such cars were in operation, and now Oslo has ordered 180 new cars. It is quite right, as the minister says, that many good tools are being given in terms of annual taxes, parking fees, etc., but money is also needed to develop a new battery, otherwise this will stop in 2005. This is where the problem lies now. Three million is needed. kr – only, I would say – to get this done. This is going to be an intermediate solution until we get hydrogen/fuel cells. It is estimated that it could have been developed in 2015. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1317	What's going to be exciting in 2015 will see if it's the same government council representative going to ask the question. As I see it, the Research Council has placed this matter in the right place in relation to where to apply, because the programme called Energy, Environment, Construction and Construction is funded by the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The size has actually not equipped me with something that I can shake out of the sleeve, if I should choose to shake. That means that if I never shake that much, there's nothing there. At the moment that Stortinget equips me with such selective instruments, I will of course be able to re-open the shake-up, but until that happens, I just have to say that the Research Council has rejected the application on the basis of normal criteria. I don't have any money, because I have given them to the Research Council, and I can't try out individual cases in the Research Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1324	I have so much understanding of what the Minister is now saying. I think it is interesting to refer to a brochure on glossy paper where the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade congratulates the Grenlands environment on ten years of good work. We know, of course, that the Grenlands community has been experiencing quite major upheavals in recent years. I understand this by shaking the sleeve, but it is still possible to give gifts sometimes. It has been ten years since this began — it was in 1993 — and it could be tempting to ask if the Minister will not provide $3 million. 10th birthday gift to the Borders environment for the sake of the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1333	I understand that trust in the Council of State is unlimited. It is only at the moment that the Storting establishes an account called “gifts to jubilants” that I would be able to have an account to deduct. Even a government council can't drag rabbits out of a hat he doesn't have. That's what's happening now. The Grenlands environment in general I have visited, and I have also had contact with those who run this project, when I visited the area there. I think the project is top-notch. This is why the Research Council has committed itself, and that is why the Directorate of Roads has also committed itself. But in this supplementary case, they have been refused. But, as I said, we introduced through the budget the so-called Tax Fund scheme, and this company comes under it. They have applied for it, and it is absolutely in order that it can trigger some means.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1338	We're going back to question 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1344	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘It has always been a prerequisite for E12/tunnel to be built for the funds granted to compensate for an increase in employers’ fees due to EU requirements. This went especially over Fundia and Rautarukki in Rana. After a review of the project, the cost has increased by 30 million. kr. The Council of State has stated that the project will be carried out. How has the State Council intended to complete the project so that it can be implemented as planned without delay?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1353	The plan for the regulation of the project was adopted on 17 December 2002 with an estimated cost of approximately 240 million. SEK at the price level of 2002. The road authorities state that this is not a final estimate as quality assurance remains. In the examination of the programme of action for the period 2002-2005, the municipality of Nordland entered in order to finance the conversion of E12 through the Curriculum. With a budget of 57.3 million. kr above entry 33 in 2003 is approximately 70 million in total. kr available for the project per. 1 January 2003, incl. funds transferred from previous years. Subject to the final estimate of costs, the planned funds for Nordland above entry 33 in 2004 and 2005 go to this project in full, implying a lack of approximately 50 million. kr on the full financing of the project. As the project is located on the pedigree road network, it should be completed above the pedigree budget. Of the priority projects on the same tribal route in the period 2002–2005, large commitments are linked to the completion of projects E6 Osen–Korgen and E6 past Steinkjer. The Ministry of Transport therefore does not consider it advisable to propose the launch of the E12 Envoy in 2003 as consideration for rational plant operation would require full funding during this action plan period. In the context of the 2004 State Budget, the Ministry of Transport will assess the start-up in 2004 to allow the project to be fully financed in 2006, within the framework of the National Transport Plan 2006-2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1362	I thank you for your answer. The situation and development of this project now is that there are still delays, and that the project, in the event of persistent delays, seems to be becoming even more expensive. Earlier in the Question Time today, it was obvious that the industry is struggling. These were funds set aside to compensate for the increase in the employer’s contribution. It has always been believed that at least that post stood there, and that you should solve the problems by doing a start-up. The budget has decided to allocate 57.4 million. kr to start up the project. It is also noted that a unanimous increase has decided to follow this up with funds. What's happening now is that it looks like the project is being dragged out in time. I would not be surprised if this price was also increased, as the project was delayed. Has the Council considered, and does it possibly have the possibility and the means to possibly start the project, so as to get started, so that the uncertainty surrounding the industry, which already wears off enough, does not spread?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1371	This project has a certain history. There has been some disagreement between the State Road Administration and local wishes about which solution to choose. I would like to remind you that I understand the local desire to find the best possible solution when this project was first to be implemented. It also means a more expensive solution than what you originally talked about. When we first start a project that, after all, has such a high cost as this, it is a goal for us – regardless of the project – that we have the most rational progress of it. I fully understand that you are impatient here. I think it's good that people around the country are impatient, but everyone deserves us to get a sensible progress from the project here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1380	The Council of State noted that there was disagreement between the Road Administration and local political representatives. But it is certainly a political decision that it should be built a tunnel. Then you can't come back and say that there has been a disagreement. Then we have to try to implement what has been adopted politically, because both the county council and the Stortinget have agreed to go in for the tunnel solution that has all been agreed upon. I think the Council of State should follow this up as soon as possible, so that there is no delay. This project, of which industry will benefit a great deal, should be launched not only in the agricultural sector but also in other industries. I think of the fishing industry and of what is happening as a result of developments towards Sweden, Finland and Russia. This is a very good project that should be started. Therefore, the impatience of the industry in this area is great.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1385	I have expressed my understanding of this project in many ways. I am concerned that we will get a good solution for business reasons in the area, and therefore I am not least concerned that we should have a rational progress. The worst thing that can happen in such projects is that you get so eager to start up that you have to stop because not everything was in place. I think we should think about this. The plan clarifications have been made so that we have the opportunity to start in 2004. Then we believe that we also have the possibility of rational progress. I want that opportunity to be seized, for the benefit of the business community and those who live in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1395	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘In recent years speed limits have been reduced a number of places in the country. This applies, inter alia, to: the line Flaøj–Bergen, where the speed limits of large parts of this distance have been reduced by 10 km/h. This has also meant that some drivers are now driving around the town of Salhus in order to get there more quickly. The reason for lowering the speed limits was that this would result in fewer traffic accidents. Can the Council of State demonstrate that traffic accidents have actually decreased after speed limits have been reduced?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1404	Speed is indisputably very crucial to the extent and severity of accidents. Extensive research in many countries indicates, among other things: at 5 pst. lower average speed on a road gives 20 pst. fewer deaths. Of course, that doesn't mean that it's a goal to have the lowest speed possible. The aim is to better adapt speed limits to the accident risk of the individual road sections. Therefore, higher speed limits are tested at the best motorway sections with a low accident risk, while roads with a high accident risk have reduced speed limits. At the same time, I want to increase the control volume and intensify the response to those who break the speed limits. Among the measures that will be introduced are the pint loading of driving licences and the placement of multiple photoboxes. In the case of approx. 1000 km of road with reduced speed limits, either from 90 km/h to 80 km/h or from 80 km/h to 70 km/h, preliminary measurements show that speed has been reduced. To avoid statistical randomness, data over at least one year are needed to evaluate the speed limit reduction. In particular, this affects the development of accidents. The Road Directorate aims to provide an evaluation for the summer. In the meantime, the West Region of the State Road Administration has carried out a rapid summary of the results of 65 km of road with reduced speed limits in the region. This shows that the number of injuries in half a year has fallen from twelve before the speed limit was reduced to five after. But these are small numbers, so you have to be careful to draw clear conclusions from this. With regard to the route of the E39 taken by the representative Hageseter, it is correct that it is possible to take the road through Salhus as an alternative. However, this is a road with significantly lower standards, and according to the Road Service, there is therefore no rational alternative for those who want to get ahead quickly. Rushtime accumulations on the E39 can lead to faster driving around Salhus, but this has nothing to do with the speed limit. It can be mentioned that on the current stretch of E39 between Nordre Tuft and Flaøh, 18 personal injury accidents, one of which was a fatal accident, occurred during the last five years before 2001. Since the speed limit was lowered in 2001, there have been no personal injury accidents on the route.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1417	I want to thank you for your answer. I note that the Council of State says that reduced speed limits have resulted in a reduction in speed. Now I didn't think it was so very eye-catching. One indicates that on this route it has our fewer traffic accidents. A company here compares the five years before the speed limits were reduced, and from 2001 until today, so that is hardly a good basis for comparison. It is now the case that reduced speed limits also increase transport costs for industry and for the public sector. By contrast, increasing road investment will usually reduce traffic costs, including road accidents. Doesn't the Council of State think it would be more sensible rather to bet on increased road repair, increased road maintenance, to reduce road accidents?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1424	That's exactly why we spend over 11 billion kroner a year on state resources on the road and 2 billion dollars on the tolls. It is precisely to improve accessibility, better business benefits and not least to take into account road safety. When we change the speed limits, it's not necessarily the way people respect them, so it's not sure that the speed goes down, but here we're recording that the speed goes down. That means people have respect for the speed limit. I'm glad, because I still think that lower speed can help save lives where the accident risk is too high. I want to remind you again that it's not a goal to reduce speed, because I see it has more effects on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1429	I find that the Council of State thought it was good, and that she is also content that a user spent 11 billion kroner on road maintenance and road construction in this country. I have to remind you that an intake of over 33 billion kroner in car-related taxes, and in addition, the toll revenue is also received. Now shows the status that one has very many unemployed workers in the country, approx. 1000 was the last number. Prognosis shows that this will also increase in time. In addition, there are many free plant machines. Does the Council of State think that it makes sense that these unemployed workers continue to work on social security instead of being put into productive work which will improve road standards, reduce costs for business and also reduce the number of road accidents?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1436	With regard to the number of job vacancies in the industry, there is a question that will be assessed in the context of the budget, because it is considered that there is reason to introduce further measures in relation to unemployment. That being said, and in relation to the exposure to car-related charges, I would like to stress that we have some costs related to car traffic, such as: goes on the health budget, in the form that there are a lot of people being injured, and there are a lot of people being killed. That's a cost that we don't take into account. We have 12,000 registered persons per. years within this sector, which has a cost of between 20 and 30 billion kroner. You ask in the health sector, they say that the number actually might be 30,000 to 35,000 injured. This means that there are high costs related to the health aspects of car traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1446	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: ‘On the E18 route Animal Park/Kristiansand-Brimstad, the choice will be between building a two-field road or a narrow four-field road. The project is conducted as a OPS project. For traffic and safety reasons, it seems appropriate to build narrow four-field roads. A later extension from two- to four-field road will for me seem demeaning and slightly forward-looking. Will the Council of State take the initiative to implement the construction of four-field roads?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1455	The project E18 Øygardsdalen-Dyreparken is part of the Aust-Agder package, which has a total cost framework of approximately SEK 2.2 billion. This cost framework provides for the development of two-field roads on that route. The route in question meets the requirements of road standards for narrow four-field roads. It is also correct, as the representative Andersen suggests, that a later extension to the four-field road would be costly. On this basis, I agree that an extension to the four-field road on the Øygardsdalen–Dyreparken route will be a good solution for both accessibility and road safety, but will indicate that serious estimates suggest a cost increase of more than 500 million. kr. Any extension of the Aust-Agder package must be based on quality-assured cost estimates and must be assessed in relation to other road projects concerned. The Ministry of Transport has recently sent a letter to the Aust-Agder County Municipality, stressing that the department clearly sees the advantage of extending to four-field roads, and calling on the county council to give priority to this against other local requests for the expansion of the Aust-Agder package. The final priorities of the Government will be taken into account in the submission of the National Transport Plan 2006-2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1466	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It is very gratifying to me that the Council of State shares my assessments on road safety, on accessibility, and on thinking forward. This is a part of the country where the main road network is of poor standard. We see ever-increasing traffic, well over the forecasts that lie at the root. Unfortunately, increasing traffic leads to large accidents, both killed and injured. The economy has high transport costs, and we also know that their competitiveness is affected. By getting a four-field path now, with midpoints, we'll also be able to achieve our goal of zero vision. We will also link the region more closely to a more dense housing and labour market, and we will reduce transport costs so that business can compete better. I would like to ask the Council of State: if all local plans are completed according to the progress plan, will an extension to the four-field road lead to some delays compared to the planned start-up, which is in 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1477	The extension of the project to the four-field road will be of little importance compared to the start time. There is currently regulation planning for four-field roads with a width of 20 m and railings as middle parts. This means that the road can be built as a four-field road if it is selected as standard, without having to change the regulation. The aim is to have approved regulatory plans in the autumn of 2003. The project shall follow the public-private cooperation model. It will take one year after the Storting has taken a decision on financing and standard of development and has made the final OPS Decision until a contract with an OPS company can be concluded. Both on the basis of the planning process and on the basis of progress in OPS, starting in 2005 will be realistic. This also applies if the final choice would become a four-field road. Then a rapid construction of the road section is assumed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1484	Reference was made to the national transport plan and its treatment with regard to state priorities. That's right, that's right. However, if start-ups are to take place in 2005, I am a little concerned when we might get this to be treated in the Stortinget. For something has to be done before the national transport plan is dealt with. Can the Council of State say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1489	What will lie in the national transport plan will be priorities of state resources, including for this project. A case will be submitted to the Storting that deals with the precisely OPS implementation of this E18 development in Agder. We aim to present it to the Stortinget in the spring of 2004. It will also allow the launch of the project by four-field road in 2005. In addition, of course, the matter will be discussed both in the annual budget and – as I said – in the next national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1497	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The flight prices have been reduced monthly before Norway and/or abroad in the last year. This is a good thing for those travelling in isolation. How does the Council of State ensure that reduced prices do not in any way reduce aviation security?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1506	Initially, I would like to point out that I am pleased that air fares have fallen. This shows that the Government’s active policy to strengthen aviation and stimulate more competition has worked. This is, of course, the overriding requirement for the highest possible level of safety. As you know, aviation is very safe, and in several years we have not had fatal accidents on scheduled flights in Norway. All operators of aviation are subject to strict safety requirements. All international aviation must comply with the 1944 Chicago Convention and monitored by the ICAO United Nations Aviation Organisation. Norway has undertaken to comply with those provisions. From an authority’s point of view, aviation safety work is based on two main pillars: Continually contributing to the best possible continuity of regulatory oversight of the compliance of operators with the safety requirements of the regulatory framework In Norway, these tasks are mainly carried out by the Air Safety Authority. The regulatory requirements for aviation safety apply irrespective of the financial position of the air carriers and other operators. Each operator has a separate responsibility to organise its operations in order to comply with the applicable safety requirements. Surveillance activities are designed to focus on air carriers’ conditions that can actually have a negative impact on aviation safety. The economic situation is an example of such a relationship. Therefore, the financial situation of each operator is one of the criteria taken into account when setting up its inspection programme. The Air Safety Authority has given special attention to following up the new operators that market themselves as low-cost companies. Foreign low-cost carriers are primarily subject to supervision by their national aviation authorities, but in addition, the Air Safety Authority carries out its own inspections of foreign aircraft in Norway. Such inspections are carried out on several occasions by low-cost non-residents operating in Norway. So far, no negative deviations relevant to the flight safety of any operator in this category have been identified. I also do not know that the lower safety level of the low-cost companies will have been identified internationally. Such safety work in aviation is designed both in Norway and internationally, I believe that the authorities have a significant focus on the relationship between the financial situation of the airlines and aviation safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1530	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State says that competition has worked. Yes, we have hope of it – so far he has worked, so let's see how long it will last, and hope it will last. I'm glad that the Council of State looks at security that overrides this and knows the system of how it's built up, but I'm concerned that the Evening Post and the Newspaper in the fall referred to a secretive report that shows that a company that also runs in Norway is sinning against many aspects of security, and they also claim that they have been involved in many near-accidents. They save time by running too fast, they get close to aircraft that have just landed, the pilots have an extreme pressure to follow the scheduled schedules, they give aggressive feedback to the air traffic controllers, they don't keep the speed limit, they fly too low, they fly over cities. I wonder if the Council of State has checked this out and made sure that it is shut down, so that no such company will fly in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1535	We've had accidents in this country in the past that have been fatal, including in passenger transport. We have learned a lot from this, and in the context of the work that has taken place internationally in relation to safety standards, we have made a very important contribution to a high level of safety with regard to legislation in Norway. I would like to stress that when I hear about such events, to which the media often refer, I always grasp it and am concerned that such events should not happen. But then I would also like to stress that fortunately we have an aviation oversight that has a clearly defined task in relation to overseeing. I also feel sure that the supervision is doing a good job – the job it is going to do to ensure safety here. Now we also live in a part of the world where aviation safety is extremely high and well maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1540	I thank you again for your answer. So it is said that these companies have been involved in near-accidents, if not ever gone, so often. Do we know that this is not the case in Norway that they have been involved? Because it's almost the accidents that can show where it's marginal, and where we have to put the cancers. There is also a question of the age of aircraft, of the number of trips during a day, which may be twice as high as the number of other companies, the age of pilots – why some companies have completely different retirement age limits. It must have something to do with security, the quality of the pilot is presumably the most important requirement for the State Council, me and everyone else to be safe when travelling by plane. I would like to ask the Council of State whether it ensures that all of this is within the framework of the legislation we have, and that it is practiced in a way that is within the framework of the legislation. If it can then be shown in other countries that there are near-accidents, you have to check whether the legislation is safe enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1545	There are two things about reporting near-misses that I am concerned about. One is that it gives us an indication that something might not be the way it should be. The second is that it should be reported. The worst thing for me is that we get under-reporting on this, so I'm concerned that, in order for us to get good enough security, we need a system that ensures good reporting. I know that the inspections – both in rail and in aviation – have been working on ensuring good enough reporting. It applies no matter what categories of aircraft it is, or what it should be. But I don't necessarily see it as a scare shot that it's reported that maybe increasing levels of near-accident accidents. Maybe it's positive that it's being reported. But we have to learn from it, what's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1553	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘AB Svenska Orientexpressen has nearly completed trains in traffic between Gothenburg and Cornsee with food, entertainment, shops and experiences as offers. The company is working to develop the train offer further to Fredrikstad. This requires cooperation with the NSB. Because this has failed and the department has not given permission, passengers must be transferred by bus to Oslo. What is the reason why the Ministry thus reduces the possibilities of tourism, trade and environmentally friendly transport?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1562	In order for a company to operate on the Norwegian network, the Code requires Norwegian railway authorisation to operate. Such authorisation is important to ensure the safety of train movements. The AB Svenska Orientexpressen does not have Norwegian permission to operate the railway business and has not applied for such a permit. That is why the Ministry has rejected the application for access to the national network. Before the Ministry of Transport can decide whether AB Svenska Orientexpressen should be able to operate on the Norwegian network, the company must first submit an application proving that it complies with the requirements laid down in the permit regulations. Such an application will be examined by the State Railway Authority. The company was briefed on these requirements in a letter from the Ministry in December 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1573	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Orientexpress runs between Gothenburg and Cornsee two days a week. These are experiences that do not interfere with other activities on this line, whether Norwegian or Swedish. The NSB, although not willing to participate, is also positive to the business. As far as I understand, the Orientexpress has applied to the Ministry, under the regulation of 4 December 2001 No. 1333, first paragraph (c) of Section 2-1 of the authorisation, to allow for traffic on the route. Will the Council of State arrange for changes to the regulations to allow transport operations other than those of the NSB to take place on the route in question, and does it understand that the company is established in Norway and is applying for railway operations? Will the Ministry initially be in favour of such an application?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1582	The government has outlined in the collective communication, which was presented last year, what kind of competition policy we are engaged in for the railways. And I would like to stress that this government is concerned that we have to exploit the possibilities that the railway has. However, I would like to repeat that this company, AB Svenska Orientexpressen, has not applied for Norwegian permission to operate railway operations. And this is not about the access to infrastructure that we talked about, this is an authorisation that must be granted by the Railway Surveillance Authority on the basis of, among other things. safety requirements. So this application has to be made in the first place.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1587	Then we've got the Council's view on it. These promoters are competent and contribute to bringing Swedish tourists to Norway, both daytime and package tourists. We know that international tourism is going down in Norway, and this could be a contribution to positive ring-effects. What is happening now is that you have to stop the train on Lake Corn and carry the passengers on by bus on it – as the Council of State knows – heavily trafficked E6. From the point of view of the Council of State as the Left Council of State, which would like to have more traffic on the road, should it not be environmentally friendly to strive to have the opportunity to do so, well to note that one is positive if this company is applying for railway operations, and is applying for it with the right person?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1596	It is a fairly well-known matter that I, as Minister of Transport and as a Left-Human, am concerned with environmentally friendly and safe transport. However, in relation to this matter, I would just like to say that in the first place, there must be an application for authorisation to the Railway Authority, which can assess whether it meets the requirements that have been set.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1610	‘The Council adopted Decision of 20 June last year on aviation themes to be addressed in the next national transport plan and the majority of the Committee on Transport significantly expanded the themes in its comments. The Ministry forwarded the decision to Avinor AS only in January, while the comment was not sent. Avinor shall complete its work in May of this year. What is the reason for using 7 months to forward the decision and not to submit the note?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1617	Int. S. No 269 for 2001-2002 asked the majority to address a number of aviation themes in the NAP 2006-2015. As part of the transport plan process, transport modes and Avinor shall submit a joint draft plan in May 2003. The draft plan, together with the municipal consultation opinions on the draft plan, will form the basis for the ministry’s work on the National Transport Plan Report, which the Government intends to present to the Stortinget in spring 2004. I can assure the Storting that both the decision and the majority comment in the Innst. S. 269 will be dealt with in the work of the National Transport Plan. The representative Hansen asks questions at the time of the transmission of the formal assignment to Avinor. I can inform you that, prior to the formal transmission, there has been a comprehensive process between the Department and the Air Safety Authority and the Aviation Administration, current Avinor, around the premises for the mission. This includes, among other things: its background in great uncertainty about the costs of maintaining the current airport structure. An important element in this context is the revision by the Air Safety Authority of the regulation on aerodrome design. This regulatory audit could have a significant impact on the future investment needs of regional airports. The Air Safety Authority has informed the Ministry that the audit is somewhat delayed and that a draft will be sent to the hearing at the beginning of 2003. Another element of uncertainty is the costs associated with the implementation of a newly adopted EU regulation that imposes enhanced requirements for the control of passengers and baggage at airports. The representative Hansen asks further questions as to why not the entire comment from Stortinget has been sent to Avinor. The decision and the majority opinion of the Inst. S. No 269 deals with several matters that lie outside Avinor’s remit. In my assignment to Avinor, I have asked the company to take responsibility for the plan proposal referring to areas where I have assessed that there will be a need for a professional assessment from Avinor.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1630	I thank you for your answer. What's a point here is that in the majority comment that matters, it's a matter that doesn't go concretely at the individual airport, but it's a matter of aviation policy in general. Among other things, I mention: discussion of price levels, internal travel patterns in the parts of the country and between parts of the country, and review of the transition pricing for travellers who have to use several companies, i.e. a broad discussion of the importance of aviation. It remains unclear to me whether or not this investigation is to be conducted until safety guidelines have been established at airports. In that case, it's going to be wrong. And I'm still asking why it's been going on for so long, and whether the Storting can be sure that all the missions, all the moments and all the comments from the Committee on Transport will be given a broad and thorough discussion when the revised transport plan comes to consideration in January next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1639	It is quite right that the Stortinget has asked for a broad discussion of many aspects, and I can assure the representative Hansen that we should do our utmost to provide the Stortinget with as broad an assessment as possible. Now there are some elements that have not changed that much since the last airport planning proposal. Many of the assessments that were made there were still there. Then new assignments have been given in relation to a broader assessment of several aspects. For example: an aspect such as the price structure within a region and across regions is about the price structure of an airline or between airlines, and there are aspects that Avinor is not entitled to and that Avinor may not necessarily have a policy in relation to. The prices that Avinor affects go to the fees that are charged to the travellers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1646	The Council of State indicates that the investigations carried out on the structure of the airport are there. There was a point in Stortinget that one was not satisfied with the basis for the investigation when it came to that matter, and therefore a new assignment was given. There is a reasonable amount of what was in that case, which should be re-examined on a broad basis. But if I see the government council correctly, the other in the department is working on the questions that Stortinget asked for answers to, and that have been working on it since last June.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1651	I can assure you that there is a lot of work both for the department, for Avinor and for those who are working on the plan paper across departments and sectors. I can assure you that there is a great job to be done. It is clear that what we want to analyse on the aviation side is large and comprehensive, and it is a challenge to see things in context. We're going to do our best in the department, which gets a recording from Avinor, that there will be a good enough basis for Storting's treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1659	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Some trucks with ABS brakes do not have the same type of brakes. This may in some cases ‘emergency braking’ enable the trailer to create road-hazardous situations. Is the Council familiar with this problem, and in that case what will she do with these old hangers in combination with newer trucks?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1668	With effect from 1 April 2001, ABS brakes have been required for all new motor vehicles and trailers with a maximum laden weight exceeding 3500 kg. From 1992 to 2001, only ABS brakes were required for new cars with a total mass exceeding 16 tonnes to tow trailers with a maximum authorised mass exceeding 10 tonnes and ABS brake requirements for trailers with a maximum laden weight exceeding 10 tonnes. In the case of trailers registered from 1 January 1971 to 1 October 1992, the requirement for the braking system to be fitted with ALB, automatic load-sensing brake valve, so that the brake force from the wheels is correctly applied according to the weight in question. The purpose of the ALB is to avoid, as far as possible, locking of the wheels. I am aware that some trucks with ABS brakes do not have the same type of brakes, and that in some cases this can create road-hazardous situations. However, when a car with ABS brakes pulls a trailer without ABS brakes, a lamp in the car should notify this. The driver is thus made aware that the trailer does not have ABS brakes, so that he can take the necessary precautions. The Directorate of Road currently assesses whether it is appropriate to introduce requirements on ABS brakes also for the old trailers. Therefore, until further notice, I would like to await the professional assessments by the Directorate-General for Road Safety of what a road safety benefit such a requirement would have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1679	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was a summary of what requirements and regulations we have today, and how this will work when things go well. But that's often not going well. In Hedmark, among others we have seen several accidents with the combination ABS brakes on the car/not ABS brakes on the trailer. When you brake the car, the hanger slips out. It slides on the side and celebrates with it what's sweeping with it. If there are then soft or hard road users, there is no problem to understand that there will be a slightly special situation, an accident of course. Some of the state politicians in Hedmark were at the traffic center at Braskereidfoss in Våler a few days ago and looked at what happened there. They got a demonstration, and on the basis of the demonstration and feedback from our state politicians, I brought this up. Otherwise, I have driven a truck myself, so I know this. It is clear that this is an economic assessment, but the economic assessment should not really be so great. It costs a place between NOK 15 000 and NOK 30000, I am told, to equip an old trailer without ABS brakes with ABS brakes. That would be possible, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1688	I am also concerned with the road safety aspects pointed out here. I will again refer to the work being done by the Directorate of Roads to look at this. They will have a hearing before any introduction of new requirements. I would like to await this hearing and that recording, and as a result, the possibility is that new requirements can be introduced during 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1693	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is possible that it is right to wait and assess. It asks how long to wait for what is coming, because in the meantime accidents occur — if not daily, it happens relatively often. ==References== a quarter of Norwegian hangers, it's told me, are hangers who don't have ABS brakes. It is clear that when you count the number of trains, and you know how many kilometres and miles these combinations go every day, you see that it doesn't exactly help to improve road safety. When the majority of the industry also wants a warrant, and the organisations want it, it should not be so far until we can get a statutory order that there should be ABS both on the trailer and on the truck.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1702	I would also like to take the opportunity to stress that it is not prohibited for those travelling on the roads with these types of cars to actually choose the most roadworthy solutions. It may be that a requirement through a prescription is the right way to go, but per. Today it is possible to choose more roadworthy solutions. If the industry is concerned about it, you already have the opportunity to do this today. It's like this in our society that we don't have to regulate everything in detail. But sometimes we have to, not least to preserve road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1712	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘In the rules of the House Bank on housing aid, this includes, inter alia: the requirement for one of the household members to be under 18 years of age for the household to be eligible. On the other hand, parents who have agreed and practice sharing care for children are cut off from receiving housing support when the child is not registered at their address. Does the Council of State consider this to be in line with the intentions of the housing aid scheme?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1721	The guidelines for the housing aid scheme, drawn up by the main board of the House Bank, require household members for whom housing aid is sought to be registered in the population register as resident in the dwelling and actually living in the housing for which support is sought. This has in some cases resulted in persons with shared care for children losing the right to housing support as a result of the child’s being registered in the public register as residing in a dwelling other than the dwelling for which housing support is sought. One of the objectives of the housing support scheme is to provide housing security. In principle, I believe that persons with shared care for children should also receive housing support even if the children are initially registered as resident in a dwelling other than housing support, if it can be demonstrated that they have actually shared care for the child or an extended association arrangement. An extension of the housing aid scheme in this direction has, of course, also a cost side. Within a given allocation, this will mean that the minimum pensioners, young disabled persons and others with low incomes will receive less housing support. In the 2003 budget, the Government prioritised the decoration of the housing restriction for families with children, costing 77 million. kr, as well as the means to adjust the light and fuel template. Further improvements in housing support will be assessed both in the context of the notification of housing and in the state budgets for the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1730	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is positive that the Council of State agrees in principle that if you have shared care, you should have no less opportunity to have such care because you do not receive housing support. The Labour Party fully agrees. There must be no obstacles in the way of falling outside the housing support scheme. In fact, it has been a long time since Valgerd Svarstad Haugland brought this case up with the then state council Sylvia Brustad, and the matter was to be investigated in the department. The House Bank has done that, say some sources, i.e. that the matter has been resolved. Then I would like to ask: does the Council of State believe that it will still be year and day before this matter can come up, be adopted, in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1739	There are several unfairnesses in the housing aid scheme as it has been designed today. The greatest injustice we've had for a long time has been the housing restriction rule, which the government has given a high priority to doing something in the budget that has been put forward. It went, within a tight budget, at the expense of the possibility of making other changes to housing support legislation that we could also want to do, but for which we did not have any room for action, for example. to amend the legislation relating to the issue of shared care where the child is registered in a dwelling other than the residence of the parent applying for housing support. In this sense, there is no fundamental disagreement, but it is simply a question of having a framework to be able to prioritise new regulatory changes. It's also a wish from Stortinget that we should give priority to changing the rule to remove the 40 m2 limit. We've partially started this. But at this point, it's primarily about finding economic space. The preliminary calculations submitted by the House Bank are that there will be a cost change of approx. Twenty-five million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1744	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is clear that the Council of State does not give such a high priority to this. The Labour Party believes that is unreasonable. We need to have the same law if you can prove that you have shared care, that the child lives with both father and mother, and that this is a good solution for the child. Now, the Council of State says this is $25 million. kr. Within the housing support, this is a very small sum – today we spend almost 2 billion kroner. It must not be such that if such a rule is to be introduced, it must be at the expense of the elderly, the disabled or others who are currently receiving housing support. That is why the Labour Party believes that it is absolutely necessary to take this seriously and remove such an old rule, which dates back to 1972, when you had a completely different life pattern.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1751	I just have to say that if we are to introduce new criteria within a given budget framework, and new groups come in, it will be at the expense of the money spent on the already existing housing beneficiaries. Something else is not possible. Therefore, our priority has been to address some of the unfairness that exists in the housing support scheme, which can thus give several families of children an opportunity to get under the scheme. It was the main field of activity of this government. There are also other injustices on the list of things that we want to do when we feel we have economic space for it. However, it must not be the way it was in the budget line for the Stoltenberg government in 2001 to propose new initiatives because it brings political benefits, while at the same time reducing the value of housing support to all those who have housing support. We also get wrong if we just focus our attention on the things that are new and that provide fine media lookups, when you actually undermine and water down housing support schemes by making those who are already inside less every single time. I noticed that the Workers' Party in the autumn had no proposal to do anything about this in connection with the housing support scheme. I hope we can find room for that in the next budget round we're going to have, but I can't guarantee anything in advance. It depends on us saying that this is more priority than all the other proposals that the Workers' Party also has in terms of changes in housing support.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1761	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘In an interview with NRK Hordaland on 6 February, the Norwegian Association for Asylum Reception Workers claims that the working conditions of many private asylum recipients are unacceptable. According to the association, poor working conditions and heavy work loads cause many employees to leave early. There is a lack of protection ombudsmen, training and work environment committees at many receptions. What kind of responsibility does the UDI, as the sponsor, have for this situation, and what will the Council of State do to clean up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1770	UDI is, as the representative Lysbakken says, contracting entity for the establishments operating the asylum recipients in Norway. Recipients are currently operated by municipalities, non-governmental organisations and private enterprises. The award of the contract for the operation of the receipts is made on a competitive basis under the Government Acquisitions Regulation. It is the operator who is responsible for the employers of the reception staff and not the UDI. Furthermore, the operator is responsible for complying with the requirements of the Work Environment Act and its related regulations. This also includes the training of employees and, where appropriate, the choice of safety officers and occupational health and safety committees. This is directly reflected in the Working Environment Act, but is also reflected in the operational rules that operators undertake to follow when concluding an agreement with the UDI on the operation of asylum recipients. If some asylum recipients experience problems in relation to the working environment, this is regrettable, but just as fully a responsibility that is legally incumbent on the operator as the employer. Suppliers wishing to compete in reception contracts are obliged to make their own declaration of compliance with legal requirements in Norway in the fields of health, environment and safety. This is the result of the regulation on public acquisitions by the establishment of asylum recipients, §5-16. If the offeror fails to provide such a self-declaration, he/she is disqualified from participating in the contest. If it appears that despite the self-declaration presented, operators do not take the obligations seriously, this should provide for further investigation, which may in turn have consequences for the future contractual relationship between the UDI and the operator concerned. It is essential that the contracting authority thus signals the importance of complying with the legislation applicable to Norwegian establishments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1782	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I note that the message is essentially positive. However, I would like to know what the Council of State will actually do to follow up the play that has come from the union of employees, because it is clear that conditions are not as they should be. They're just complaining that several of the conditions mentioned by the Council of State here are going to be okay, on some of the receptions are not in order. Will the Council of State follow up on concrete measures? Does the Council of State see any need for more detailed control procedures for the activities put out by the State in competition, or for the tasks that, when they do so, by other means, despite the legislation in place, can it be shown that there are such conditions in some of these activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1789	In principle, the Labour Inspectorate is responsible for supervising the compliance of employers in Norwegian enterprises with the health and safety legislation. If there are major problems in some of the asylum recipients, it would not be natural for the Council of State of the Ministry of Local Affairs to deal with them, but for the staff of the receptions to contact the Labour Inspectorate or to contact the UDI's local office directly, which is those who have contract negotiations and supervisory tasks related to the receptions. If – as I said in my main reply – it turns out that there is a serious breach of the self-declaration that has been given, to comply with health, environmental and safety legislation and the work in connection with receiving a contract of reception, it could then result in a later disqualification or difficulty in entering into a new contract of invitation to tender. Therefore, it is important that we focus on the right lines, and it is thus the UDI district office and the Labour Inspectorate that, with supervisory tasks on behalf of the Working Environment Act and as responsible for the contracts, should be the right person to make contact. I believe that the UDI’s local office should take seriously the type of enquiries they make when they arrive, in order to determine whether there is a breach of the obligations undertaken by the receiving operators.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1796	I thank you again for the answer. I think the Council of State is giving positive signals. However, it is clear that if that signal is to be taken into account in practice, the type of control measures mentioned by the Council of State must actually be implemented. And according to what Norwegian Association for Asylum Reception Workers has been able to bring about, there should have been only one check on reception during the last year from the Labour Inspectorate. It is therefore important that the signals given here by the Council of State arrive so that the UDI district office and the Labour Inspectorate actually carry out more thorough checks. Therefore, I would like to know if the Council of State would like to take an initiative towards the Labour Inspectorate and other relevant authorities, so that we can carry out more regular checks at these receptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1803	Labour supervision is a so-called risk-based supervision. In other words, they concentrate their supervisory activities primarily on those activities where the risk of occupational health damage is greatest and the environmental impact is high for a large proportion of workers. Therefore, it is not certain that reception is the most frequent control of the regular oversight work carried out by the Labour Inspectorate. But it is therefore possible to address issues with the Labour Inspectorate, where they will assess whether there are such serious issues that they want to carry out supervision. Similarly, it is fully possible to deal with this with UDI. I cannot address matters directly with the Labour Inspectorate. So it's not within our line. This is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and Administration. As for what should be the main focus of the Labour Inspectorate, I would like to mention: refer to the decisions taken during the budgetary procedure here on the Stortinget. They provide qualitative guidance on the areas in which the Labour Inspectorate should actually give priority in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1810	Question 25 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1816	‘After the extension of the Dovrefjell-Sunndalsfjella National Park, 40 cabins at Snow Mountain have had limited access possibilities. The cabin owners are denied, among other things: maintaining an old way of access, as it is feared to be used more. This is Oppdal municipality disagreed. The road is normally closed to unauthorised persons. The cabin owners now get limited pleasure from the cabins and nature of the area. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the protection work is adapted to existing uses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1823	The Dovrefjell-Sunndal National Park was established on 3 May last year as an extension of the former Dovrefjell National Park. At the time of the expansion, the area at the Snowberg was integrated into the park, an area where there are several cabins. The reason for having this area in the national park is particular consideration for the wild train, which is also one of the reasons for the extension of the national park. The current hut area is located west of Soløyjell, which is of great importance as grazing area and winter pasture for goats. Important trekking routes to and from the Soløy mountain also pass through the Snow-mountain area. Most of the cabins were originally listed as small hunting and fishing bays, but were later extended to simple cabins. There has been a gradual development of the running track of the cabs, from the simple tractor standard at the end of the 1980s, so that the road can currently be driven by four-wheel tracks. The highway down into the Dindalen is locked with a bomb, and there are only people with keys that can run in, i.e. landowners, rightholders and tenants. The road and cabin associations have applied for permission to repair the track on certain sections of the national park. The application is now treated as a derogation under the Protection Regulation. The county has rejected the application, inter alia: having regard to the fact that the case would be assessed in the management plan to be developed. The decision of the county council has been appealed against to the Directorate for Nature Management. The Directorate has sent a reply to the Housing Association with a request for an inspection in the area before the case is completed. The road and cabin associations have responded positively and the inspection will be carried out on the summer of 2003. As long as this case is under review in the directorate, it would not be right for me to comment further on the matter. In general, however, I would like to say that in the design of the national park code, emphasis has been placed on meeting an established practice to a reasonable extent. Although the cab area is now within the national park, this does not mean that there should be no possibility of using motorised transport into the area. The managing authority shall continue to be able to authorise the necessary transport of by, supplies, materials, etc., occupied by the representative, after existing tracks to the cabins inside Søndre Snøfjelltjönn. Combined with the possibilities of snowmobile transport in winter-time, this means that the cabin crew will continue to meet the need for commercial transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1843	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was partly positive, as far as I could interpret it. It is clear that the users of these areas are concerned with two things: one is to maintain the way they have. The second is of course to be able to use it, as it has been maintained, also for the transport of those who have cabins there, because it is a significant part of the way, and some of the older users have been used to driving in and using the area. Is it not reasonable that road installations already established and previously maintained should also be able to be maintained and used in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1850	As I said, the decision from the county council was appealed to the Directorate of Nature Management, so I cannot go into the matter more specifically than saying that maintenance of the road is anything but upgrading the road. The representative mentioned maintenance of the road. I noticed that. In general, I also think that when there has been a simple tractor road in, when you have previously had the opportunity to drive in and have also had the opportunity to transport other goods – I mentioned the provision – I see no reason to put chains in the wheels for those who use the cabins. A little different, of course, will happen with pure passenger transport. For example: disabled or elderly people, I think it should be visible with slightly different eyes. That was point one. As point two, one must also be aware that there are probably a few kilometres from the national park border itself to the cabins, and that there may be a different regime than in the area not covered by the national park.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1857	I thank the Council of State for the answer. For us it is important to listen to local democracy. I have to point out that Oppdal Municipality is in favour of maintaining this road, and the other authorities should at least stress that local democracy is in favour of both the maintenance and use of this road, for which there has been tradition. I suppose the Council of State will focus on what local democracy also means in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1864	I've noticed those recordings, as well as the other, and I have nothing more to add in myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1872	This question, from the representative May Britt Vihoven to the Minister for the Environment, will be raised by the representative Frode Hervik.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1875	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘According to a report by the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research commissioned by the Directorate for Nature Management, the gaupe population has decreased by 20-30 pst. for the period 1996 to 2002. From an estimated total population of 400 to 500 gauper in 1996, the population has been reduced to 300 to 350 animals in 2002. For 2003, the Directorate for Nature Management has authorised the killing of 85 animals, i.e. about 1⁄4 of the population. Does the Council of State consider this to be sound predatory management in relation to ensuring a sustainable gaupe population?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1884	The management objective for gaupe was established by Stortinget in the treatment of St.meld. No 35 for 1996-97 on the management of wild game. Gaupe shall be managed in such a way that coherent populations and reproduction are maintained over large areas of the country. However, stock density shall be regulated in relation to the extent of damage in each area. In the most sheep-rich areas of the West and in areas that are important for reindeer management in North Norway, reproducible populations shall not be established. Here the files are controlled by quota-free gauntlet hunting. Otherwise in the country the stock is regulated by a regulated hunt. In Hedmark and in the North Trøndelag/Fosen there are, in line with Stortingen's assumptions, own globular topics that set out quotas and areas for hunting. New population figures have recently been published, on which the representative was also present, showing a decrease in the overall population of gloep of 20-30 pst. from 1996 to 2002. As the representative also points out, the population of gaupe in 2002 is calculated for a minimum of 300 to 350 animals, while the corresponding figures at the beginning of the period are calculated for 400 to 500 animals. At the same time as the population has been reduced, bup and tamrein injuries due to gloating have also been significantly reduced during the same period. There has been a marked decline in the total hunting quotas for gaupe in recent years. In order to prevent excessive withdrawals of reproductive females, a female quota of its own has been introduced in most of the counties. As is known, this has been done in view of the fact that the female animals are the most important in the context of reproduction. Once the female animal quota has been filled, the hunt will be stopped automatically. This year the female animal quota is set at 19 animals, while the corresponding female animal quota in 2002 was 28 animals. This shows that the management takes into account changes in stocks. For this year's hunting season, the Directorate of Nature Management, following a complaint from the Swedish Nature Conservation Association, has reduced the quota in North Trøndelag/Fosen from 17 animals to 9 animals. The complaint from three business organisations in Hedmark concerning the decision on 16 animals in Hedmark has not been taken as a result of the directorate. After the review procedure, the total quota of the year has changed from 93 to 85 animals throughout the country. I am concerned that we are going to have a coherent and viable population of gaupe in the country, which has also been determined by the Storting, while the loss of buff and tamrein is kept at the lowest possible level. A reduction in the gaupe population means that management must have a greater degree of precision both in the stock monitoring and in the setting of allowances. In connection with the report of robbers, I will go further through the objectives and taxation methods in order to continue the sound management of gloats.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1897	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Of course, female quotas are positive in relation to stock development. Governments indicated a marked decline in total hunting quotas in recent years. However, this is not entirely consistent with the total number of animals in the field. In 2000, there were 95 gauges in total, 81 gauges in 2001 and 92 gauges in 2002. One problem seems to be that the cutting quotas are adapted by the statesmen in each state. I am pleased that the Council of State emphasises the importance of greater precision in both stock monitoring and quota fixing. My question to the Council of State will then be whether he will consider introducing overall management at national level and introduce clearly defined stock targets for the new reporting of predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1906	It's too early to say something final about what we'll propose in this predatory message. The Storting has asked for a review of the stock situation of all the large predators – wolf, gloat, yerv, bear and king eagle. The Stortinget will be presented. Now what we have to be careful is that we're also able to have a viable strain of gaupe. On the Norwegian side, we now have 300-350 gauper, on the Swedish side, it's over 1,000. We also know that there is a certain exchange, especially between Hedmark and Sweden. But we're now following the situation for globs carefully. It is important to set a separate female quota, which I had in mind, because as soon as the number of females laid down in the quota has been reached, the hunting must be completed. That's why we've seen in the last few years that the total take-off is much lower than the total quota, because the hunt must end when you get up in the number of females that are set. No difference can be seen between the females and males when shooting, so that the hunt must stop once the quota level has been reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1913	I am very pleased that Environment Minister Børge Brende has improved predator management in relation to what previous governments have done. I also hope that the Minister for the Environment will take this into account, inter alia. the recommendations of WWF-Norway in relation to ensuring sound management of the gaupe population. In any case, they clearly believe that it will need to be increased in the future to ensure a sustainable population of gaupe in Norway. I hope that the Minister for the Environment will take these recordings with him and consider the measures that need to be taken to ensure this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1920	All measures will be properly assessed in the context of the reporting of predators and, of course, the input from different organisations will also be included. The size has determined that there should be a balance between these predators and bofes in land and important agricultural industries. Now we have seen that the loss rate in relation to the agricultural industry has fallen sharply in recent years – this is linked to gaupe. Of course, we focus on what comes from these voluntary organisations, including the recording here from the excellent representative of the Left. But, as the representative is aware, we are dependent on close cooperation with the agricultural authorities, who also have some other considerations to take into account, not least in relation to the well-being of agriculture. I guess the representative is familiar with this, but I'm not going to elaborate on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1927	That was the last question in today's Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-12.ana.ud398e1938	There is no record.
