ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e28	The representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e31	I would like, on behalf of the representatives of Hallgeir H. Langeland, Åsa Elvik, Heidi Grande Røys, Ågot Valle, Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken, Bjørn Jacobsen and myself, to propose a better identification of the race hazard in Norway, social consequences and concrete measures to prevent the loss of human lives and values.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e36	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e59	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Per-Kristian Fossstatsrådet Laila Dava State Council Torild Skogsholm The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We will then start with the first main questions, from the representative Hill-Marta Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e78	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Unemployment continues to increase, and we are approaching 100,000 unemployed. The increase is coming all over the country, and only in the industry there were 3,700 more unemployed last month. The government's response has been for a long time a tight budget, a lower interest rate and a lower exchange rate. The Labour Party agrees, but has always felt that the Government has been too passive in addition to having a tight budget adopted. The Government has now announced measures in the revised national budget to meet the increasing unemployment. My question is this: Does it mean that the Government now recognises that something needs to be done beyond the adoption of a tight budget, and does the Minister of Finance realise that labour market measures need to be increased, and that the State needs to contribute more actively to the creation of new jobs, among others. through regional and industrial policies, when unemployment increases?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e87	There is no need to realise that, because it is written in the Government's budget document, the national budget, which was dealt with in the Stortingen last year, that the uncertainty about further unemployment rates is high, and that we will come back to the question, among other things. on the level of the employment measures, in the revised budget, which the Stortinget receives on 15 May of this year. Moreover, it is true that there has been a trend towards increasing unemployment. With regard to the figures published yesterday by Aetat, the Minister of Administration said in yesterday's opinion that the figures confirm a trend in the labour market that we have been concerned about for a long time. We come up with an assessment of the situation and possible measures in revision. In this context, it is important that the measures are within a framework that helps to solve the main problem that has now been pointed out by the representative Hill-Marta Solberg, namely a tight budget that can contribute to the continued reduction of the krone and interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e94	I thank you for your answer. I must also remind you that when we in the Labour Party presented our concern for increasing unemployment during the examination of the year's budget, it was characterised as a black paint. Now, obviously, the government has also got a different view of it. Through the media today, the Minister of Finance tells us that he will give up fighting for the differentiated employer’s fee. It has been one of the best instruments available to the State in the field of district policy. Thus, when this scheme is under way, every four jobs in the private sector in Nord-Troms and Finnmark and every six jobs in the private sector in the rest of North Norway are threatened. This will be a very serious situation, and my question is: What will the Minister of Finance do to prevent a large number of jobs in the districts from disappearing when the Government now, as it is said, gives up the fight for the differentiated employer tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e103	Reportedly – I did not express myself about this to the newspapers today, and what I am represented on there is correct. We have not given up the fight to maintain substantial parts of today’s differentiated employer’s fee, but with which the representative is well-known, this issue was dealt with by the EFTA Court in 1999. We lost there the opportunity to keep the change indefinitely. The deadline is now there. And let me put it this way: the statements that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, I suppose, today have in today's newspapers about a complete cancellation of a differentiated employer's fee outside zone 5, i.e. the Nord-Troms and Finnmark action zone, are not correct. It is not necessary to go this far under EU rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e110	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e113	Worse waste in a society than having free hands, there is hardly. This loses the individual, it loses the community, it loses the business, it loses everyone. And that means that in such times as we are inside, the state must actively pursue counter-cyclical policies in order to get out of work. I record that the Prime Minister has now taken this problem more seriously. We and several other parties have been talking to the Prime Minister and his people, who were also present to the Minister of Finance. We appreciate that. We think a national effort is necessary to get free hands at work. We have a lot of unresolved problems in our society, many things that everyone sees need to be repaired, built or done, while we know that there are tens of thousands of free hands that can do the job. That's why it's necessary to combine here. Let me then ask two very specific questions: Many school buildings in Norway need to be built, repaired, improved, so that our children get better education, better growing-up conditions. Why can't we use construction workers for this? And the second is, we have a lot of racially dangerous distances in Norway where schoolchildren and others are on their way to school and kindergarten, why can't we fix these? It has a high employment effect and a low cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e120	The president reminds us that speaking time is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e124	The main issue of counter-cyclical policy has been discussed many times with the representative of Djupedal, and if I have not convinced him of the need to establish such a policy within the framework of a tight fiscal policy, at least I point out what LO's chief executive said about this when such an outlay came into the paper. He strongly warned against breaking down the spending framework of the State budget by adopting a counter-cyclical policy, when there is still considerable room for further cuts in interest rates and thus creating an incentive in the economy, and that the krone price can further dampen to help the export industry. I remember statements, as late as today's newspapers, from the fishing industry, represented by the FHL, that there's a lot to go on to recover what the industry has lost as a result of a high dollar price. That room must not be used up by misunderstandings of economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e129	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e132	It's a sad marriage vow to witness between the Workers' Party and the Government. The point is: Be faithful to the tight budget in both good and bad times. But the consequence of that in the time we now stand in, is that the Government and to the extent that the Workers' Party chooses to use the unemployment rate to get the crown price and the interest rate down. And my question to the Minister of Finance is: How long has the Government been planning to wait for the krone price to reach the level that the Government considers acceptable, that interest rates are falling at the level that the Government considers acceptable, in parallel with the increase in unemployment? I just want to remind you that we have already reached the predictions of the Government when it presented the 2003 state budget. So we already have over 100 000 unemployed in Norway. There's no reason to believe that this will go over soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e137	For the record, we don't have a marriage vow. I have considerable respect for marriage, I, so it has nothing to do with it. I think the representative Jensen agrees with me there. But I always thought that we had a budgetary settlement with the Progress Party. And for the record, we have no budgetary agreement with the Labour Party. For the sake of order: it is not the case that the Government's prognosis of unemployment cracks in relation to today's figures. Forecasts of registered unemployment are 4.1 pst. on an annual basis; it is still below that level. But I think – and I have said that in the past – that the forecasts may prove too cautious, but we will come back to an assessment of that as usual in the revised budget. The answer to the question of how long to wait has been given by the national business and employee organisations as a whole, which express themselves in line with the Government's policy, that there is still considerable room for interest reduction in Norway, and still considerable room for weakening the krone price in order to strengthen competitiveness and secure jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e144	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e147	We hear what the Minister of Finance says about a tight budget, but at the same time the last few days' talks have shown us that the Government may also consider it useful to combat unemployment with more than just a tight budget. The issue of active transport policy, racial security and also access to capital for business are areas that are important. My follow-up question is in relation to the representative Hill-Marta Solberg asked when the differentiated employer fee was involved. The removal of the tax exemption could therefore threaten 30,000 jobs, and my simple question is: if a person is now considering using a special clause in the EEA Agreement to maintain the tax exemption in parts of the country, why is it not trying to use the same clause to maintain the full exemption, which is both sensible, unbureaucratic and effective, and which may be important to prevent more people from becoming unemployed in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e154	Since the centre party now asks, let me answer the two questions that SV asked. We have a significant sense of strengthening the school-building system, and also the possibility of further funding for racial protection is one of the things that the Government assesses up to the revised national budget. There have also been discussions with several of the staging parties. Differentiated employer's fee, I will explain to the EEA Committee in the meeting that was announced on Friday, but let me say so that we see good opportunities to use the protocol procedure for the established action zone. We have not received any support from the whole scheme to maintain, either in the European political authorities, in the Commission or among individual Member States, and the premises for this are very clear in the EFTA judgment of 1999 and in the Commission decision, which fell last year, towards Sweden, which tried a similar scheme. So the question that the representative Arnstad is really asking is whether the EEA country Norway can expect to have a system that the EU country Sweden cannot have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e161	Torstein Rudihagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e164	I want to follow up on the last one a little, because there are often major disadvantages in establishing industry and operating in the districts, not least in communication and transport. Our goal is to use the whole country, and therefore there is a need for some targeted regional and industrial policy instruments, and there is evidence that SND has had a lot to say in this way. Now it's been reduced and decomposed by the current government. Agriculture has major challenges, and the WTO negotiations have weakened importers, and production support is likely to have to be greatly reduced. The differentiated employer's fee has been, as has been said here, one of the most targeted tools. In this way, it is more competitive than it is distorting. There is a district-friendly potential in new technology. Nevertheless, it appears that some compensatory measures are necessary to take this action and, in many cases, a reduction in the employer’s contribution has been decisive for some establishments. Is it reasonable then that we have to bend away from ESA in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e169	The question is well resolved in itself. The question is whether ESA has to bend to the EU, and the answer to that is as far as we have been able to figure out after months, not to say years, with political processes: Yes. But this does not mean that the whole scheme disappears. I have good reason to believe that we can keep significant parts of the scheme and find out about other compensatory measures, as was mentioned in Rudihagen's articles, among others. cohesion in relation to transport aid. The scheme may be maintained for the primary industries, for the fishing industry and, in the Government’s view, also in the action zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e174	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e178	In the context of the Government's Budgetary Conference, the Minister of Finance stated in the press conference that there would now be a break in the government's tax relief. I think it is so interesting if the Minister of Finance can inform the Storting about this situation, for the whole of the Sem Declaration, which is the basis of the Government, carries the bid for a significantly greater offensive in fiscal policy than the signals now coming from the Government. Then the question is whether the government has now given up parts of the Sem-Declaration. Or is it that you're going to take back what you can't do now, the year after? It is paradoxical that the Government does not see that lower rates can actually generate higher tax revenues.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e187	For the sake of order, I would like to draw your attention to the Government's intention to provide information on the 2004 budget. It comes in a normal way. I have not used the term ‘pause’ in relation to neither taxes nor other parts of the Sem-Declaration. The government has not given up the Sem declaration's objectives, but we must point out that the economy in Norway is more difficult than it was when the period started, and when this year started. It is not new, perhaps, that there are significant problems in the international economy. The term ‘crisis’ is used by many analysts. Unemployment is increasing sharply in countries around us, and growth is falling sharply in countries around us. Tax revenue in Norway also fails in relation to forecasts for the current year and for the next year. This means that the Government is facing a more difficult budgetary situation in 2004 than was foreseen when we entered the year, and than that situation was when we last briefed the Biggest on the economic situation, namely in the national budget for 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e192	We've all registered that things are going worse in the Norwegian economy. We have also recorded that the government says that tax revenue goes down because it goes worse for Norwegian business. But precisely in a situation where the economy is going worse, where the government has to adjust growth estimates, is it not time to assess an alternative economic policy where economic growth is more focused? And one of the most important means of boosting economic growth is a tax policy that stimulates companies to invest, which stimulates people to work, which makes Norwegian business more optimistic than you can see. It is reassuring that the Government is so passive and indebted to the economic cycle rather than exploiting the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e197	I record that the Progress Party and the government parties have a different view of what it is to be active. Keeping a budget and not proposing changes to the budget for the second week of January, as the Progress Party did, is actually a virtue in itself. Keeping the tightness of the budget so as to facilitate the stimulation of the economy through a fall in interest rates and, as a result, a decline in the exchange rate is a virtue supported by all employee organisations and all employers’ organisations. It's not passivity, it's actually keeping a course.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e202	There will be follow-up questions – Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e205	Since the Minister of Finance was last in the spontaneous questioning session, we have got the position from his party trap, Skauge. The Skauge Committee has given interesting signals in relation to the dividend tax. Since the Minister of Finance calls for immediate action and counter-cyclical policies that can be pursued within the framework, it is natural to ask whether it is now time to consider getting out of work by introducing a modest dividend tax of 14 p.m., as proposed by SV, and as also the Skauge Committee has seen is common in most countries and economies with which we can compare. Is the Minister of Finance willing to reconsider his position on the dividend tax if there may be measures that can get out of work within the framework?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e212	The representative's reference to the dividend tax is factually incorrect in relation to what is in the configuration of the Skauge Committee. It's not a dividend tax according to the old model, it's a so-called shareholder model that has substantially different sides to the former dividend tax. The proposal of the Skauge Committee, combined with the relief of marginal taxes and wealth taxes, are interesting ideas that the Government will come back to in a big deal. If signals from the representative Lighthouse now are that there can also be SV's policy, it opens up considerable opportunities. The last time I saw the representative, Lysbakken, put forward proposals for action in the Norwegian economy, was to limit the pressure by reducing business opening hours. It is a proposal that has not been followed up either, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e219	Hill-Marta Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e222	The Minister of Finance and the Government are usually very pleased that they have managed to pay DKK 19 billion in tax bills, and in all respects the Minister of Finance stresses that all the essentials of this tax haven't been given to business. Now that we are seeing developments in Norwegian business, with increasing unemployment, I would like to ask: has this tax haven been completely wrong? Has it not had any positive significance, as the government has used to mention it, when we still see that unemployment is accelerating and we are getting as much growth as we see all over the country? Have these billions been wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e229	I can reassure the representative of Solberg, who has also voted for most of these billions of companies, that it has not failed. It has been very successful in mitigating developments in a difficult international situation that would otherwise have been much worse in Norway. I remind the representative of Solberg that in the social democratic overthrow of Germany, an unemployment rate of 10.5 pst is recorded. at the end of February. In social democratically governed Sweden, there is also an increasing unemployment rate, from a higher level than in Norway. Norway, after all, is facing a difficult international situation, but the krone price increase in Norway has been a particular challenge, which has had to be met by a policy aimed at tackling this basic problem and, in addition, at stimulating it through tax relief. For the companies, it would have been bad if the Workers' Party's proposal for further increases in taxes on wealth and dividends had been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e234	Gjermund Hagesetter – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e238	The Norwegian and international economies face an uncertain time. Norwegian companies are losing their jobs and unemployed path. The need for tax relief may never have been greater than it is today. As is known in the Sem Declaration, the Government Party has stated that during the period 2001-2005 tax reliefs of DKK 25 billion are to be implemented in addition to the removal of the investment levy. In recent times, there are doubts as to whether the Government is able to implement these tax and tax payments. The liability for this has been tested to be located, inter alia. the opposition and on falling share prices and thus less return on the oil fund. If the Government now chooses to go away from its tax-free promises, with a basis for falling share prices and a lower rate of return from the oil fund, does this not show that the rule of action is mature for auditing?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e247	The government does not disregard the promise of tax relief or other promises made in the Sem Declaration, but the balance between different promises must at all times be adapted to the economic situation of the country. Giving tax reliefs, as the Government has done, at NOK 19.7 billion, has been a right policy. The pace of further relief needs to be adapted to the balance I mentioned. And what's the point of the balance? Well, getting a budget that itself helps to dampen the pressure in the economy and allows for interest rate reductions to be stimulating. In fact, there is a division of labour between financial and monetary policies on which the Progress Party has been a strong supporter in the past, because the party was a strong supporter of the monetary policy objective that we are currently pursuing. It is therefore necessary to take the consequences of this and to see that there is an interaction between monetary policy and financial policy that must function in such a way as to strengthen competitiveness and thus ensure jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e252	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e255	The Minister of Finance may be allowed to sit down, for I will ask a question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. The Christian People's Party was once concerned with family politics. In many election campaigns, they have been concerned with family policies and have said that it was important for families to have a good and predictable framework for their children. We agree with the heart. The Storting has made a historic decision about a bet on kindergartens that lack parallels. The kindergartens are going to be cheaper, and you're going to get an extension that actually gives you a real freedom of choice, that there's a kindergarten for those who want it, at an affordable price. My amazement is therefore great to note that the Christian People's Party uses most of its energy and its forces to counteract and then doubt this decision and the historical by it for hundreds of thousands of the country's young children's parents. A state secretary raised doubts about different things about this at the latest last week. We have also heard this from the pulpit of the Great Government many times from various representatives of the Government. My question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs is: Does not the Government feel a responsibility not to create insecurity among many hundreds of thousands of young children's parents by constantly pointing out things that the Government believes, but what the Storting does not mean, rather than folding up its arms and saying that this is what we're going to do, now we're going to build kindergartens and get the price down?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e268	I am pleased to say that there is a great deal of consensus, fortunately, both at large and in the government on the objectives of the kindergarten policy in this country – both that we are going to provide enough space for everyone and that we are going to have a much more acceptable parental payment than what we have today. In fact, the level of that is the same. As the representative also knows, the government will come back to Stortinget as early as April with a big message and also with an odelstingsproposition on kindergartens. We have also invested considerable resources both in the last year's budget and in the year's budget, which certainly shows a willingness of both government and growth to follow up, namely to ensure that everyone has a kindergarten as soon as possible. That being said, it is clear that there are some elements of the nursery agreement that some people have allowed to say something about. The State Secretary Width was out with the other day, and, let's say, a kind of interpretation of it, perhaps to some of us, the joyous news that the Central Party has made a decision at the national meeting that you want to look at parts of the kindergarten agreement, which makes some people uncertain. There, I think, more than the State Secretary of the Ministry of Children and Family is somewhat uncertain – perhaps also in the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e277	So I am still very surprised that a party that at least markets itself as family friendly spends so much time and effort to counter decisions in the Stortinget and the opposition's desire to build kindergartens and get at a maximum rate, so that it actually becomes a freedom of choice for the country's young children's parents. To say that you agree on the objectives is a veil of reality. From the day one, the government has fought against the decisions of the Stortinget. The two billion allocated to this year's budget are the responsibility of the opposition, not the Government. And the money that will come to next year, it will also be the opposition that makes sure to get in place. That's why my amazement is that you don't choose to cooperate on this, not for the opposition in Stortinget's sake, but simply for the hundreds of thousands of parents and young children who depend on this to be good. The decision in Stortinget has been confirmed several times and will create the world’s best kindergarten policy in Norway. But what surprises me all the time is that the Christian People's Party uses force and time to counter this instead of saying that OK, we lost that battle, and then we're working together. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e282	It's hard to talk in the mouth of an eager bigotry representative, but I have to say that this is – if it's allowed to use the word – hesitate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e287	No, it's not allowed – because it's not!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e292	In two consecutive budgets, the government has proposed the largest investment ever in kindergartens in Norway. What we're fighting for, working for, is getting the best possible kindergarten agreement for the population. We know that the most important thing for very many is to get a nursery place. We're now working on finding a good model for this. I hope the representative of Djupedal understands that our intentions and my intentions are very good. I really want to invite Stortinget to cooperate to find the best possible model, because it is not given that the model proposed by Stortinget is entirely...
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e297	Then the President considers the question to be answered. A little comment from the president's place to the comment from Djupedal: the comment is correct, but what's wrong is that it comes from the representative, it must come from the president. There will be follow-up questions – Torny Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e304	I want to follow up on something the representative of Djupedal said, that we feel that what Stortinget has said is not being followed up by the Government. We are constantly hearing from parents to children in kindergarten that the parental payment still goes up, especially in private kindergartens. It was not Storting’s intention that municipalities should reduce their spending on kindergartens when the government grant was increased. It would rather stimulate more expansion and less parental pay. How does the Council of State follow up the municipalities to ensure that they do not reduce subsidies to kindergartens? And what pressure is the Council of State putting on the municipalities to follow up the objective set for 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e312	This is one of the key points of the kindergarten policy that has been pursued in Norway up to now, namely that government authorities have not had sufficient means to ensure that the transfers made from the country to the kindergartens are actually followed up. We have had a big problem with this. This was also the reason why the Sem Declaration called for a completely different and new funding model, which included: should take into account non-discrimination between public and private kindergartens. What we've seen is that it's the private kindergartens that have been subjected to a reduction in transfers from the state when the operating grant has now increased. This is precisely what we are going to try to do when, together – I hope – we are going to create a new funding model, where we are getting stronger tools. But today, in fact, a government council does not have the necessary means. We have discussed this with KS in consultation meetings. We have written letters, which KS has also done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e317	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e320	I have a follow-up question for the Minister of Finance. Recently, both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister have stated that the Government does not intend to follow up the decision of the Stortinget in the autumn budgetary procedure on tax exemptions for the employer-paid kindergarten. I would like to remind you that the nursery agreement is a written agreement between four parties on Stortinget, just as an agreement was reached on cash support in the previous large-scale period. This means that the Progress Party does not intend to break a written agreement. This again means that if the government challenges that agreement, the government and government parties do not have anyone to negotiate with in Stortinget. Does this not mean that the Government must recognize that they must both respect and follow up the decisions of the Odelstinget and Lamentationet, of a solid majority of the Stortinget, rather than continue to train and train and create uncertainty about what many are waiting for to become a reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e329	I perceive that the question was asked to Per-Christian Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e332	I have also perceived the question, in all its intensity! I will not put myself up in relation to an agreement concluded between four parties. The government has nothing to do with it. We have to deal with decisions taken by Stortinget. The majority took a law decision on a tax reform that did not cover the budget. None – at the very least the contracting partners – were in favour of budget coverage. The progress party was such a partner. The government has substantial objections to this way of making tax reliefs. We have two objections. One should at least count for the Progress Party, namely that a tax relief granted to most people should not be determined by the employer but given to the individual. This tax relief depends on the willingness of the employer. The second objection may not impress the Progress Party as much, but at least I've heard that SV has upset it, that this gives an extremely distorted social profile. High incomes are much better off than intermediate and lower incomes. That is why the Government has notified us that we will come back to this question in the revised version. We'll see for ourselves. the current low level of budgetary coverage for such a tax haven.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e341	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e344	I want to ask questions to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. The opposition on the Stortinget has gathered on the kindergarten agreement, which states that kindergarten space should be available to all those who want it during 2005 and that each nursery place should have a maximum price of DKK 1500 from 1 January 2005. It can't be that state councils in the sitting government will in any way train the impositions of the Stortinge. I have therefore been surprised to note that State Secretary Odd Anders With in Political Quarter on 17 March stated that he is more optimistic now than we can get a funding scheme for kindergartens that allows for greater speed and predictability in the development, so that everyone can have room, and that it will not only be cheap kindergarten for those who already have room. I would therefore like to ask: is it such that the political leadership of the Ministry of Children and the Family does not intend to comply with the development plan and the reduction in parental payment adopted by the Stortinge?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e353	I want to say that the government will come back with a big message and an odelstingsproposition in April, which will contain all the elements of the nursery agreement. There must be no doubt about it. However, what is a problem — or should we say a challenge — is what the Minister of Finance has said a little about. Another challenge that lies in the staging agreement is the relationship between what we call maximum price and expansion. In some of the investigations received by the Ministry of Children and Family at the latest in the last few days, these are also problematic. I'll come back with the impact assessments of this. This does not mean that the downgrading agreement does not have to be fully fulfilled, we come back with all the elements, but it may be that you might want to look at the device of parts of the agreement. For example, sibling moderation, which is also decided upon in the Storting, can take place in very different ways. But everything is going to be signed out. The representative can be quite calm about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e360	I have noticed the Council's response and should perhaps feel secure, but I am not. For those of us who are active in political parties, it is an objective to put into practice the policies we believe in. I note that the Central Government of the Christian People's Party as late as August 6, 2001, stated the following: ‘A kindergarten area should cost less than NOK 1500 per month. The aim of the KrF is that by 2003 there will be a children's gardening space for all those who want it.» The content of this press release is surprisingly similar to the content of the nursery agreement adopted by the Storting. Therefore, it would be interesting to hear the Council of State Laila Davøy explain how, as the Council of State, she will be able to carry out the policy behind the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e370	We absolutely do not disagree with this. It's my intention – and that's what we work for in the Government, fortunately with the bulk of the population in the back – to get enough kindergartens and get an acceptable price, preferably NOK 1,500, as the Christian People's Party has also said. There's no disagreement about that. However, what the government has said sometimes – and then I do not say that we are not following the decision of the Storting – is that it would be wrong not to come back to Stortinget with the investigations we have now carried out, which show the consequences of systematic implementation. Then I am talking about absolutely all the decisions, including what the Minister of Finance has also said about here today. It would be wrong for me, as the councillor, not to come back and make visible all the consequences that actually result from the kindergarten agreement that was decided by parties on the Stortinget, without any investigation at all. This is also important for a state council to be able to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e375	There will be follow-up questions – May Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e379	The Council of State and the Government are primarily responsible for the uncertainty about the orphanage agreement around the municipalities. The municipalities refuse to implement the kindergarten agreement because they believe that the Department and the Council of State are unclear on how this is to be implemented. Around the municipality of Norway there are cuts in the kindergarten sector, and there is a lack of re-establishment and the creation of places despite the incentive subsidy and despite increased appropriations from the state budget. This is going to hit the kids. What will the Council of State do specifically to correct this uncertainty that has been created by her and the ministry? So the state councils have so far talked about their good model in their answers. What, then, is the good model of the Council of State to achieve this orphanage agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e386	As for the last one, we're making an odelsting proposal and a big deal in April. We're adding the last pieces. We have not finished the work either in the State Secretary's Committee or in the Government for the time being. That's an answer. Municipal self-government continues in this country. The representative knows that very well. I am also very pleased with what SV has done at his country meeting. I could have really wanted to ask the representative – but that is not possible – about what you think the municipalities should have greater freedom, because they have actually adopted it. I think it is an exciting discussion, and I would like to take it in relation to kindergartens, but that is not the case today. We are not responsible for the uncertainty associated with kindergartens. I take a great distance from that. There is no government before us that has given so much money for kindergarten development, and I find myself in a way not being held responsible for creating an uncertainty. What has created uncertainty is a decision made by some parties in the Storting, where one has opted for a nursery model without knowing whether or not it could be implemented. And it's my responsibility to make this visible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e395	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e398	It is quite right, as the Council of State says, that we have municipal autonomy, but we also have some national rights to welfare services. We have e.g. a statutory right to primary school here in the country, and we have a maximum price in that primary school, i.e. NOK 0. Similarly, Stortinget has now decided that we should have a maximum price in kindergarten, and we should have a statutory right to kindergarten. It is then up to the Government to implement the policy and, where appropriate, to reach the Grand Duchy with the measures necessary to get it through. Now we see that kindergarten expansion is too slow, and we see that a lot of municipalities put on the price instead of reducing it. In this case, the Stortinget assumes that the State Council will come to the Stortinget with the measures to be taken. But we're still seeing government representatives say it's the pediatric agreement that's responsible for us having pressure in the economy, which makes it impossible to get a responsible budget. My question is: Could the Government intend to give up its heart matters, for example: more tax relief or baptism training for half a billion dollars, to accommodate the kindergarten agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e403	The last thing I'm referring to is a budget debate, where you're going to put all the issues up against each other. When it comes to predictability, I think it's one of the most important things about kindergarten policy. I agree with the representative, Giske, that the expansion is too slow. It's not good enough that we built 6,000 out of 10,000 places last year, as it looks now. But the problem is that it is not only the Council of State, I say, that it has created a kind of uncertainty about the agreement that has been concluded. The private kindergartens have said this. KS has also been quite critical to parts of this agreement. There are two elements I want to mention in this. First of all, it is the maximum price that you find difficult. But it also depends on the fact that, from PBL’s point of view – I talked to PBL yesterday – it is too bad to organise the municipalities in our country in relation to kindergartens. That is why we will also come back with tools linked to the local apparatus. But we're coming back with all the elements of the nursery agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e412	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e415	I noticed that the Council of State in a previous reply, in an attempt to look into the agreement, pushed the centre party ahead. I just want to say that there's no reason. The national meeting of the Central Party has said that we should clearly stand by the agreement that has been concluded. We also say that it is not an agreement that is totally non-profit in relation to the Center Party's programme and the Central Party's thoughts about municipal maritime governance. But we stand by the agreement, and we look at possible changes within point two of the agreement if it becomes part of a discussion in Stortinget. I wish the Government too could take the assumption that they recognize that an agreement has actually been reached, and that they would then take a reasonable and constructive discussion with the opposition when they now file a case. The answers that the Council of State gives here today make me worried about that, because the Council of State seems more concerned about attacking the opposition's agreement than about taking note of the agreement and then working constructively in relation to it. The same applies to the Minister of Finance's replies and the statements made earlier by the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister. My question is simply: will the Government take note of the agreement and then have a reasonable discussion and constructive cooperation in the Storting, or will one continue to attack it in that way today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e424	I'm sure you can discuss who's being attacked and not in different contexts here. I also think that the government and I as the state council have been attacked for not wanting to follow up or wanting to make kindergartens, for that matter. That's wrong. I think it is good to clarify that the Central Party is at the time of the agreement. Nevertheless, I understand that there are opportunities for perhaps some changes within the contract that are. As I have said in many contexts in Stortinget, at the latest in the budget debate last year: When the government comes back with the big message, when we have all the consequences on the table, when we see how we should proceed to find the best possible model, so that we can try to get as many children's playgrounds as possible, and we get a really good parental payment at the level that everyone wants, then I hope that we can sit down and negotiate this in Stortinget. There's nothing else I'd like to do. There have been enough government councils and large numbers of people who have promised their parents full child care coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e431	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e434	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. The owners have agreed to merge DnB and Mutual NOR. The Consumer Council is very sceptical about the competitive situation following such a merger, it is said from there. They believe the services are becoming more expensive and worse and refer to experience. The centre party is in complete agreement. In February, the Competition Authority presented a report with a critical assessment of the competitive situation in the banking sector following a possible merger, which is currently available. The merger partners have known about this scepticism, but at the same time they have seen that all the mergers and acquisitions agreed by the owners have been approved – with one exception, and it is BNbank in Trondheim, who lives independently, because Gudmund Restad as Minister of Finance put his foot down. Ownership interests have taken precedence over consumers in all other cases. Does the Minister of Finance think that the interests of the ordinary consumer have been properly safeguarded in such processes?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e445	Yes, because we use the same method of dealing with concession applications of the kind that was in government Bondevik I, where the representative Morten Lund's party was a member. I do not wish to comment on the specific matter raised by the representative. There's no application on my table. Very well-known, the owners have not signed the agreement either, but the boards have made their recommendations. It's something completely different. In general, I would like to say that competition in the Norwegian financial market is reasonably good. The grant of new banks with different offers and partly more reasonable offers than existing banks is good. In particular, the technology has made the Internet a reality, made it easier to switch banks and facilitate the establishment of banks. If we compare the banking market in Norway and the other Nordic countries, I would actually argue that competition is fairly good, especially in the private sector. Where the merger raises competition issues, the main consideration to be given to is under the supervision of the Competition Authority. The credit supervision will also have such assessments. When they are available, the Government will normally deal with the concession request in the event of such a concession request.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e457	My question was of a general nature, but attached to this. I believe that it must be possible to look at the experience of what has happened. The Competition Authority has inter alia: I studied what happened after the Postbank became part of DnB. All prices and charges have become more expensive. The offer has become worse. The newspaper today has an overview of the prices and a comparison of the large and small ones. It's the little banks that offer the cheapest deals, and that's a very big difference. State Council Norman has asked the Competition Authority to consider the imposition of a temporary prohibition on mergers in order to prevent the implementation of what is currently envisaged taking place before the application, where appropriate, reaches Per-Christian Foss. As a shareholder, the Council of State Gabrielsen considered merger to be industrially correct. The other state councils give signals that this is a positive view of the government. Then I think it's strange if the Minister of Finance doesn't want to make a statement as well. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e468	I don't know if I got the question, because it disappeared. But if the question was whether I can answer, the answer is no, because I'm dealing with concession requests, and I haven't got any of those yet. I have not intended to give any pre-lift in relation to a concession request. That would be totally wrong. The Minister of Competition has pointed out in a very common way that this matter must also be assessed from a competitive point of view. There might be some objections. In fact, the representatives of the banks themselves have said that. I also see that it makes sense from an owner's assessment. I remind the representative Lund that Stortinget has stated that they want DnB to become a central Norwegian financial institution. I am sure that the parties to this agreement are open to other proposals from the representative Lund, especially if they had arrived at an earlier date.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e475	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e478	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. On 4 February 2000, the Minister for Transport, Mr Fjærvoll, signed an agreement with his Swedish colleague, Mr Rosengren. In that agreement they outlined that they would go home and work for the train, and the aim was that driving to Gothenburg would take 3 hours and 20 minutes by the end of 2001. The result, if we look at that distance today, is that it takes over 4 hours, and that the train on the Swedish side has an average speed of 100 km/h, while the train on the Norwegian side has an average speed of 80 km/h. Then I wonder: What does the Council of State intend to do to meet this February 2000 agreement on a better train link between Norway and Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e483	Then it is a pleasure for me to say that we believe we have fulfilled this agreement between Norway and Sweden. Some measures have been needed in the area of infrastructure on the Norwegian side to facilitate, inter alia, the use of drugs. heeling train. These measures have been implemented – actions of 300 million have been implemented. Just to meet this need. So, of course, it's going to be so that we can do even more, and we can get even more speed on this train traffic. But in the department's opinion, we have fulfilled our part of the agreement. We're still going to bet on the railroad here in the country, and I want to remind you that we have a record high stake on the railway in the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e488	I am surprised that the Council of State is satisfied that we have trains on the Eastfold line that do not exceed an average speed of 80 km/h. But leave it. In Sweden, you now invest for every penny you invest on the road, 2 kroner on the railway. In Norway we invest for each kr we invest on the railway, 7 kr on the way. The NSB has lost passengers last year, and it may not be so strange when we see that investment profile. I would like to ask the Council of State: will she take the initiative to turn our investments in Norway into a larger investment in the railways? And is it really that we're satisfied when we can't drive faster than on average 80 km/h on our main railway down to Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e493	I am concerned that we will facilitate good rail transport here in the country. Also on the road side we are actually less speedy than 80 km/h on average at times and on some distances, so this is not a unique thing like this. We have a challenge in our country. The map does not look like it does in Norway as it does in Sweden; the settlement is completely different in Norway than in Sweden. We must focus on a transport policy that meets the needs we have – on the rail side and also on other modes of transport. This is important to me, and that is why we have just chosen to prioritise the railway as high as we have done in the current year. I would like to remind you that we have major challenges in other areas as well. What has been most important to us about the railway is maintenance and operation, because it's about safety. And then we have mainland Norway's largest facilities on the railway, Skøyen-Asker.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e498	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e501	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. The SAS Group is in crisis, and its largest airline, Scandinavian Airlines, is about to be slaughtered on both the national and international markets. This is no coincidence, this is the result of something, a result that this government has deliberately decided not to implement a bet to secure SAS as a Norwegian national company, especially then, of course, on the domestic market. Since its accession, this government has done what it can to weaken SAS's role in the market. It has also concluded agreements with Air France, KLM, BA and Finnair on international routes rather than with SAS. This is now having serious consequences for thousands of jobs in the SAS group and could have consequences for thousands of jobs in the districts as a result of reduced transport provision. What will the Council of State do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e508	I'm actually a little surprised by the question, because it's not that many months since I was in this room and met with the opposite problem, that competition was too small, that prices were too high and the offer for bad around the country. Then a government policy was requested to help bring prices down, which would allow people to choose between several offers and get lower prices. There we have pursued an active policy. We have removed the air passenger charge, which has helped to reduce flight prices. We have got more players in the market, which has also helped to reduce prices. This is a good thing for the market. Compared to SAS having problems, I would like to remind you that I am not the owner of the Norwegian state – it is the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Minister of Industry, who has that role. But as the responsible Minister of Transport, I am concerned that we should have a good offer here in the country. Then I'm concerned that yes, we're going to have room for SAS here, and we're going to have room for other companies, so we have a wide and good offer and low prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e513	I think a Transport Council should also be concerned with jobs, at a time when unemployment is increasing as much as it is now happening in Norway. Let me remind you that this is not an argument against competition, but an argument for keeping a nationally based company. It is no coincidence that Air France dominates the French market. There is no coincidence that Alitalia in Italy or Lufthansa in Germany does the same. It depends on a national policy that facilitates conditions, where competition can work, but where a national company is also maintained. Is this an uninteresting issue for the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e521	It's probably other national companies that are in even bigger problems than SAS are. So it's that there won't be any more jobs because we don't make it easy for people to travel around the country, with a good offer and at reasonable prices. If we are to provide jobs throughout the country, we must have a good transport offer. Yes, we need SAS, but we also need others who can participate in this market. It's only when we can ensure that people get a good offer, that we keep the jobs, and that it's possible to work around the country and not just in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e526	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e529	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. On Saturday we could read in the newspapers that in a mosque in Oslo, mourning rituals consist of self-inflicted pain through pissing. In fact, VG could also show through image documentation that children up to 10 years of age were present and even participated in these rituals. A spokesman for the Shia Muslim mosque could tell that the police have known about these rituals for years, and that children have both participated and been present. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether she has been aware that such self-pitching rituals occur in Norway, and whether she has been aware that children have been present in the course of whipping.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e536	The answer to that is no. I haven't known and don't know that it's going on that way. I was abroad these days, in Barcelona in Catalonia, and there were some headlines in the papers where we saw little children who were being flogged for blood. It was pretty horrible. But I'm not aware that this is happening in Norway. Fortunately, we have child protection in this country, and to the extent that something like that should happen, I expect child protection to be notified immediately and take action.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e541	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was very reassuring. When we know that the police have known that children have participated in such rituals, but have not intervened, it was very reassuring to hear what the council says now. We're trying to protect our children in Norway. We, as waxing representatives, make laws and regulations for children not to be subject to traumatic experiences. In concrete terms, when we know that this is happening – we know this, it is documented now – I will ask the Council of State: What does the Council of State intend to do to put an end to what can obviously be described as child abuse in the Shiamus milieu?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e548	To the extent that this is a problem in Norway and we get to know it, of course we have to take it up in its full width. So far, no enquiries have been made to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs at least that this is a problem. We have laws and rules. We have the Children's Act, and we have the Children's Protection Act. We have very good laws in Norway to protect the child in every possible context when it comes to what we might call abuse. Immediately I don't see that I can go in and do something special, but I promise to keep up with the development. Of course, if there were to be things of this nature on my table, we should investigate and deal immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e553	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e558	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative of Mr Rudihagen to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, who has been removed. Question 11, by the representative of the Minister for Health Asmund Kristoffersen, has been withdrawn. Question 12, from the representative Ranveig Frøiland to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 13, from the representative of Øyvind Vaksdal to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has left. At the request of the Minister for the Environment, this question is moved and answered in response to question 29, which is to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 19, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Education and Research, will be taken up by the representative of Asmund Kristoffersen. Question 20, from Rita Tveiten to the Minister for Fisheries, will be taken up by the representative Leif Lund. Questions 21 and 23, from the representatives of Hill-Marta Solberg and Morten Höglund respectively to the Minister for Food and Trade, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 22, from the representative of Gjermund Hagesetter to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, has been transferred to the Minister for Agriculture who is directing him. However, the question will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, who has left. Question 28, from the representative of Marit Nybakk to the Minister of Defence, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e587	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: «Wednesday, March 5th, d.o.b. informed the Minister for Education of South Africa in a briefing in Parliament that South Africa has received requests for unrestricted access for foreign companies in its education sector. This should be the wish of four countries in the WTO service negotiations. One of these countries is Norway. In an interview with newspaper BusinessDay that same week, the minister said that such an opening would be ‘destructive’ for higher education in South Africa. Is it true that Norway has made such a request?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e596	The WTO Service Agreement, GATS, was established to provide a multilateral framework of principles and rules for trade in services. The aim is to extend trade in services under conditions of transparency, non-discrimination and gradual liberalisation, as a means of promoting economic growth for all trading partners and developing countries. The ongoing service negotiations started on 1 January 2000, on the basis of a mandate laid down in the Service Agreement, with the aim of continuing the liberalisation process initiated during the Uruguay Round. Negotiations are now at a stage in which countries are promoting requests for each other. Norway has received a request from 23 countries and has sent a request to 51 countries. Countries shall, on the basis of their requests and bilateral discussions, submit opening offers by 31 March of this year. Norway has sent requests to 17 countries, including eight developing countries, to assume commitments for higher education and adult education. Trade in higher education services is a growing sector internationally. Norway is currently a relatively modest exporter of development services, but the potential for Norwegian exports in some areas, among others. for distance learning, is considered to be significant also in developing countries. In all requests to developing countries, we refer to the objectives of the negotiations given in the mandate of the WTO Ministerial Conference in Doha in 2001 and to the specific provisions of the Service Agreement on how the interests of developing countries should be safeguarded. We will show you, among other things: to Article IV of the GATS, which states that ‘the increasing participation of developing countries in world trade shall be facilitated’, inter alia. by ‘strengthening the capacity of their domestic service sector and its efficiency and competitiveness’; This is an integral part of Norway’s request to developing countries, which therefore contains an important element of cooperation. So we're going to take a different approach from that of the industrialized countries. Norway’s request to South Africa covers eight sectors. We are in a process of bilateral discussions to clarify which areas the parties may have an interest in moving forward. If South Africa in this process signals that they will not include higher education in the negotiations, Norway will not pursue the request further. In this context, it is important to stress that it is entirely up to developing countries themselves whether or not they will accept commitments in service negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e607	I thank you for your answer. I perceive the foreign minister's answer as a yes to my question, that Norway has submitted such a request, and ask him to correct it if it is misunderstood. In this case, it is very interesting, because it is the first time the Stortinget has become familiar with one of the concrete requests that Norway has made to another country. It became known, not through information from the Government to the Norwegian Grand Duchy, but through information in the parliament of another country. This information was provided by the South African Council of States, both in Parliament and in the media. Both the opposition in the United Kingdom and a number of WTO-critical groups have on several occasions asked to be made aware of the countries that have made the demands for liberalisation to Norway in the GATS negotiations, and also of the requirements that Norway has made to which countries. This has been unwilling by the Government, on the grounds that it could damage the relationship with other countries. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that South Africa is damaging the relationship with Norway by publishing such a request?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e614	Just in order for there to be no misunderstandings about the matter itself, I must be allowed to stress that the public education institutions are not affected by the requests, because the GATS negotiations do not concern the public service – just so it is quite clear. So we're talking here about those who provide services. It is clear that any country – and I see nothing wrong in that Norway has just addressed such a problem in this area – will benefit from as good an offer as possible in terms of education. And distance learning is an important thing, which certainly the Light Bin and I agree on where significant contributions can be made. When it comes to his question, the answer to that is no. However, it is also on the side of the issue that Norway needs to take into account. When we're negotiating with other countries, it's like a ta-and-gi situation. It is not that Norway is the country that can give in the first place. There are many other countries that also require things. If Norway is going out in front alone, Norway must take the full burden of that debate. It will relieve others in-country, and I assume that the Light Hill and I are not particularly concerned about, some of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e624	I thank you again for the answer. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs knows, SV and other parties have repeatedly asked for information on the requirements Norway has received from other countries in the GATS negotiations. But we have still received feedback that this is not desirable, or even impossible, as was the version of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at one point in the autumn. Later it has been clarified that it is lawful in relation to the WTO Regulation to publish that type of information, but the Government has maintained that it is not desirable. Then I am very interested to know why South Africa can tell about who is behind the demands South Africa has received, when Norway cannot. The logical consequence of the rhetoric that the government has had in the past should be that Norway should feel that South Africa should not publish this information. Are we serious? And if we don't mean it, why can't Norway itself publish the demands we've received from other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e631	I have to admit that I am not quite sure if I fully got hold of the Light Tray's reasoning right now. So the point is that in every debate there is a question of taking and giving. When the best-condition clause applies here, it means that if all other countries that are required to move towards another country assume that Norway is the first to go ahead, and that consequently also has to give something to achieve, only Norway will have to give something, and then others in and on its own will be free of charge passengers in that process. And that has nothing to do with the relationship with South Africa. So there's no contradiction here. But in order not to make this more dramatic than most necessary, I would also remind you of what I said in my answer, namely that if South Africa in this process signals that they will not include higher education in the negotiations, we will not follow that request further. So I have to admit that I am not quite sure if I have completely got the point of the Lyssbakken question series today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e636	You have to clear it out in another arena.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e643	‘Between 5000 and 10000 deaf people use sign language daily. Norway has undertaken to recognise that any person belonging to a linguistic minority has the right to use its minority language freely and freely. Sign language is such a minority language, but the sign language has no such rights. Will the Council of State contribute to Norway’s own Sign Language Act, thereby giving deaf people the right to sign language throughout their lives?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e650	In recent years, the Norwegian Dove Association has been in contact with the Ministry of Culture and the Church on several occasions on the issue of legislating Norwegian sign languages as an official language in Norway. Legislation, as they see it, will ensure better access to information and thus full participation and equality for the deaf in society. I'm busy being able to receive information and participate in the social debate at the same time as listening. However, there is some uncertainty about the legalisation of the character language in which official language is the best way to achieve this, and a closer assessment of this issue will be necessary. The Ministry will address this and other issues in this area — which are covered by the law on sign languages, the need for full linguistic rights, the protection of such rights in existing legislation and other issues related to this. The Ministry has asked the State Centre for Archives, Libraries and Museums to handle the distribution. The distribution will be carried out in close cooperation with deaf organisations. I hope that the distribution will continue this year. I am also aware that there is a proposal from the Nordic Council to carry out a survey of what is needed to integrate sign language into the Nordic Language Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e661	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm, like, like the Council of State, concerned that deaf people should be able to get in line with others. But now it's not like everyone deaf gets it. In particular, we experience that many deaf elderly people are distressed by their meeting with the home and hospital services, where they are often misunderstood. They're isolated and depressed because no one can communicate with them. Will the Minister, until we have our own sign language law, at least help to ensure that staff in the care sector have adequate language skills, and that this happens quickly? Many people feel that they are in a desperate situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e670	When it comes to the education of those added, it's the responsibility of a government council other than me, and I'm probably not fully up-to-date either on what the situation is like. But I totally agree with the basics of the question. I would also like to remind you that there was a debate on this in the Stortinget in 1991, where, among other things. Grete Knutsen, Jon Lilletun and Hallgrim Berg got involved, and it was also said that there would be some sort of distribution. There have been many government councils since then. Now at least the distributions are starting. We're expecting a report in the course of the year, and we'll follow it up. So the goal is a few things. But what is the best way to achieve the goal? We want to do what we can to be able to achieve the goal, so that those who are poor, or do not belong, can become fully integrated into society and get the same information as they hear. I would also like to point out that we are working on a big message about policies for people with disabilities, and there we have a summary of results and experiences with, among other things. the disability action plan. Here, the Ministry of Education will give an account of the many measures taken to recognise the character language as its own language and follow-up of the legal right to training in sign language.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e679	It's true that the question, and what I'm going to ask now, is maybe a little bit on the page, but it's about language. I feel that in the absence of a separate language law for sign language and in the absence of our own rights in this area, we face a number of situations in which language becomes an obstacle, and lack of language becomes a problem for deaf people. I've had several cases with municipalities that don't want to buy places for their deaf elderly people at institutions that are their own institutions for the deaf, or in hospitals where you have your own departments for the deaf. Among other things, there is a matter up to Conrad Svendsen's institution. I know it falls outside the scope of the case, but anyway, it's about language, and in that way I'm going to ask if there's anything the minister can contribute to finding solutions to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e688	I am a little surprised at the follow-up question, because I have not been able to predict to answer that questioner asks questions about it. It is also an area for which I am not responsible. But to put it like this, I thank you for your commitment to the cause. Hers were invited to do something in 1991. No particular effort was made. Now we've at least started a work. I am also pleased with the commitment of the questioner to the Nordic Council to identify the same. And then we get as I get information, and we get a review of the case, see what we can do from our department. But I'm also overestimated that with the involvement of both the Ministry of Local Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education – I think there were several departments involved in the questioning – there is a way for us to raise this group and show clearly the dishes they are going to have. And, as I said, there will also be recordings in relation to primary and secondary schools when it comes to training in sign language, in the big message that comes soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e695	The President recalls that the Council of State has the full opportunity to reserve the right to reply, if the question is not relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e698	I want to remind the President that he can also reject questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e707	This question, from the representative of Torstein Rudihagen to the Minister of Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e710	‘On 26 February d.o.b. a small user was thrown out of his childhood home, the housekeeper's place Hakkloa. He and his parents have been tenants since 1919. The conditions for the state expropriation of the user according to Section 14 of the Law on Soil appear to be fulfilled here. He has promoted the matter of expropriation. The Ministry of Agriculture has not complied with this. In Dagbladet 27 February d.o.b. Professor of Law Carl August Fleischer states that he is clearly entitled to take over the property. What will the Council of State do to correct this injustice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e717	In February 1998, Jo Arne Ødegård applied for the expropriation of the Hakkloa Vestre farm under rubble. 67 bn 1 in Oslo, where Carl Otto Løvenskiold owns. Following a thorough preparation of the case with several inspections and meetings in which the parties and the Ministry of Agriculture were present, the Ministry of Agriculture of the former Minister of Agriculture, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, decided on 18 July 2001 not to expropriate the property for the benefit of the Land. The applicant complained to the King, but the complaint stayed at kgl. failure to comply with the Resolution of 5 February 2002. In all expropriation cases, an attempt shall be made to find an amicable arrangement to safeguard the interests of the parties and the purpose of the expropriation provision. It was therefore essential for the outcome of the expropriation case that Carl Otto Løvenskiold had offered to sell the property to Ødegård during the case. The Ministry of Agriculture found that this was a satisfactory offer in the light of the purpose of the law, and that the advantage of expropriating did not satisfy the mandatory requirement of the law that the expropriation intervention should undoubtedly be more beneficial than damage. The added advantage was, as the department saw, that desertion might be free to sell the site to other than its own life heirs, adoptive children, spouse or registered partner. The decision not to expropriate was conditional on Løvenskiold’s being offered, and therefore Ødegård was given a specified deadline to notify the Ministry of Agriculture if he wished to take over the place as offered by Løvenskiold. The Ministry of Agriculture received no such notification within the time limit. After the deadline had expired, the waste yard came back and asked for it to be extended. The Ministry could not extend the period without the consent of Løvenskiold. In that case, such extension would be contrary to the rules applicable to the conversion of decisions to the detriment of one party. Løvenskiold did not accept any extension of the time limit, and the Ministry therefore informed that the case was to be considered as finished. Jo Arne Ødegård has subsequently filed an action against the State claiming that the appeal decision is invalid. Oslo District Court has not yet taken a decision on the question. Jo Arne Ødegård has also applied for further expropriation. The application was submitted to Løvenskiold, who considers that there is no basis for considering a new application. It's per. at present no position has been taken as to whether the new application to Ødegård should be dealt with at present, or whether one should await the examination and the decision of the new application to Ødegård until Oslo District Court has taken a decision as to whether the present decisions are valid. The Ministry of Agriculture aims to clarify this issue with the first.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e732	As I see it, the kiss here is very clear when it comes to the 1995 soil law, which says that the department can expropriate 'to the tenant, children or grandchildren'. This is the express will of the Greatness. According to Dagbladet on 27 February, Carl August Fleischer says that this has actually been the right thing to do until 1928. The question here is simply whether it is Regeningen's intention that the last housekeeper in Nordmarka should not take over the housekeeper's property, which has been run by his family for generations, with a necessary operating basis. What's the reasonableness of this? I'm aware of the offer from Løvenskiold to which the Council of State refers. To put it correctly, it was a draft of an agreement, which was later withdrawn, a draft containing a good number of clauses. One should not be allowed to drive sheep, and not with goats, and one should not transfer ownership to others other than their children – not even to any adoption children. My question is, why would they accept this, when it is the will of the Storting to give the right to take over the property, on an operating basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e741	I have prepared a procedure in an area that is not mine, but the asker chose me, which is not a specialist council, for an answer. Then, of course, the answer must be scarce and not as kind as the questioner probably wanted. There was a procedure under the former government in 2001. That procedure did not come to an end in favour of expropriation. Then there has been a round that has led to a result that is well known. What the Ministry of Agriculture is currently doing is assessing whether to address the new initiative on expropriation or whether to await Oslo district court treatment. I cannot say more about it, because it is the status the matter now has. I am convinced that the Minister of Agriculture, when he is back from his journey, will address this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e750	Thank you for that, because I think that's a little promising. The case is, as the Council of State refers to, a new treatment because the offer from Løvenskiold has been withdrawn again, the presidents have changed and there is a new application for expropriation. As Fleischer also says in a legal question, there is no basis for treating the applicant and West Hakkloa in any way other than that which is generally applicable to the liquidation of housekeepers' and tenants' relationships and the like. The last case was dealt with by both local and regional agrarian authorities. And that's right, as the council says, it's taking out the mood, it's due to legal proceedings. The best thing would have been to avoid it. I'll talk to the lawyer for the next one as late as last night. He says that he has asked for legal proceedings to be pending until one has dealt with the new application. I sincerely hope that the new application currently in the department will be dealt with in an ordinary way. There are case-law on this. There are many similar cases, regardless of a possible offer from Løvenskiold in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e759	Anyone who has been a little near the problem in Nordmarka has different feelings about it and also knows that there are different legal issues to consider. I am absolutely convinced that the Minister of Agriculture will go into it, and that he will balance all the facts that exist – including new facts in the matter. Of course, I see it as my duty to pass on to me the arguments that have been put forward. So that's going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e767	‘The Nordlys newspaper of 25 February 2003 found that among the criminal offences in Tromsø, five–six per day commit crimes committed by other criminals. If they are caught, they will release again after a brief questioning and can in the next moment commit new crimes without a criminal response. What will the Council of State do to put an end to this type of crime, carried out by unpredictable persons?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e774	On the basis of the newspaper article referred to, let me first point out that anyone who asks unsuspecting persons to commit crimes could, as a general rule, be punished for participation. So you can't escape punishment by encouraging unpredictable people to commit the act. Responsibility for participation is independent and not conditional on the principal being punished. The Criminal Procedures Act also opens the way for the co-pilot to be apprehended and, where appropriate, to be jailed, if it is assumed to be necessary to prevent the person from re-participating in a criminal offence which could result in a higher sentence than prison for six months. So for reactions to unpredictable lawbreakers. On 11 June 2001, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg adopted the following decisions: ‘The Government is asking the Government to assess a change in the penal code, in order to make it possible for unpredictable offenders who commit clearly socially harmful crimes to be judged more than at present to be subject to mandatory mental health protection or to mandatory care.’ In the Stortinget Question Time on 13 March 2002, the representative asked me Gjul questions as Minister of Justice about how I would follow up the decision. Among other things, I replied: this: ‘Which are more stringent than before, but I would like to stress that society can still protect itself against those who are dangerous. However, unpredictable offenders who are not dangerous but annoying cannot be subjected to a special reaction. Such safeguards were practised are not very different from the previous ones.I want to follow-up on the Storting decision in several ways. Firstly, I would like to take an initiative with the Minister of Health in a short time. Furthermore, I would like to discuss the matter with the national lawyer at the next contact meeting. In parallel, I will follow developments closely to see how the provisions on special reactions for unpredictable work in practice. I think there might be reason to consider this issue before the general back-up after about three years.’ On 16 April 2002, the Ministry of Justice of the Ministry of Health asked the Ministry of Justice to assess whether changes can be made to the Mental Health Act to ensure that psychotic offenders who commit clearly socially harmful crimes can be dealt with by mental health protection. The Ministry of Health then replied that nothing can be done in this department's legislation. This group of criminals represents a problem area that concerns both health services and criminal justice. Dialogue with the health side should therefore continue, and for the police, it is a priority task to carry out prevention work aimed at this target group. However, the experience so far suggests that it would be appropriate – as I see it – to go through the special reaction rules before the regular back-testing in order to reconsider whether the rules of use for custody and compulsory care should be extended. In other words, I think it is relevant to carry out what I said last year when I replied that I would consider doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e800	I thank the Council of State for the answer. To be honest, I'm a little disappointed in the answer. Here the Minister of Justice still talks a lot, but very little action. So it's been a year since the last time this question was raised in Stortinget, and it still hasn't happened anything. It's a problem that increases in strength. Other criminals, too, see the possibility of using the criminal law outlaws to commit crime. I'm sorry about that. Police officer Truls Fyhn in Tromsø has also addressed this several times and warns against the growing problem. When will the Council of State come up with concrete measures to get these criminals out of society, to say that, so that you can get law and order back in Tromsø?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e809	First, I have the impression that law and order apply in Tromsø. For the group we're talking about here, which is so-called harmless and falls between different laws, it's a system that's not satisfactory. The representative is quite right about that. It is also the case that what the Storting asked for in its time was that you should look at what you could do under health law. There it's clear that there's little to do. Then I intend to carry out what I said, namely a post-control check in connection with specific criminal-law reactions before the post-control period, in order to be able to respond precisely. So I went on to say in my first answer, which I think must be important, that whoever contributes to someone who is unreliable, in this way commits a criminal act, can be affected by the participation rule. And the participation provision in Norwegian legislation is strict. It should also be able to be used actively by the police. But I see no need to wait with the back check, among other things. For the reasons the representative addresses in his question, and because I follow up on the answer I gave last year, in the way I have done in the first answer to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e818	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The most important thing here is to get rid of the criminally unpredictable, because then it has also been eliminated that other criminals can use them as a tool to commit crime. I understood the Council of State right, that there is a lack of responsibility between what is involved in justice and what is involved in health, at least I ask the Council of State to intervene in it immediately. I would also like to know if the Government is going to take this into account in the revised state budget, because it also has an economic side that needs to be followed up. It does not help to adopt laws if it is not followed up in practice by financial means. I would like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e827	What is presented in the revised national budget will appear there. In any case, there will be something related to this, with which the Storting has previously been known, namely that it is able to transfer someone who has been sentenced to custody, and it is not this group, which will then be able to be treated and helped locally. It shall be transferred from the Ministry of Social Affairs to the Ministry of Justice, as has been mentioned earlier in the budget of the Grand Duchy. That means we're getting stronger into this field. I think that's right. As far as this field is concerned, I have had a dialogue with the health authorities. We have found that they believe that the legislation no longer extends. Then it is my duty to drill in this interface, so I should be sure that this interface does not become a grey zone. That's why I already answered it in my first answer. In terms of participation, involvement in crime is serious. It's already punishable. There is every reason to take those who contribute to participation, whether in relation to criminal offences or children. That's what Stortinget has marked in a number of contexts, and so have I as Minister of Justice. But the representative and I have a common opinion: we should not have grey zones, and that is why we should go into it. That's what I intend to do by implementing post-controls.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e839	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘In recent media projections, it has been shown that there is a significant shortage of shopping sites around the country. It is claimed that desperate police lawyers have to release revenants because there are no available custody cells. Another important element in this is the negative signal that gives people the most, and that the criminal does not get an immediate response. What will the Council of State do to improve what appears to be a nationwide problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e848	As Minister of Justice, I look very seriously at the issues raised by Mr Ellingen. I have therefore taken the initiative of several measures to improve the situation of care. These are measures in addition to the extension of the set-aside capacity launched from the autumn of 2002 to the present day. During the first six months of this year, several actions have already been implemented or planned: 15 closed custody sites at Ullersmo prison were put into service from 1 March this year.At least six new doubles will be put into service at Bergen prison from 1 April this year.40 cells in Oslo prison, which the Oslo police have lent, will be released in the month-end of March/April. This represents a total of 78 prison sites within the first six months. In January and February of this year, a total of 26 doubles were carried out each month at various prisons to remedy the situation, and then we talk about doubles in addition to the multi-person rooms that we have in open institutions, and the multi-cells that we have, among other things. has a prison in Åna in Rogaland. The central administration of criminal justice cooperates closely with the Police Directorate in order to ensure the optimum functioning of communication and procedures between the police and the criminal justice system and to avoid situations involving the release of serial criminals. It may seem that the measures now taken have already begun to work. The prison directors reported at 9 a.m. on 9 March. 24.00. there was no breach of the so-called self-imposed 24-hour rule. The difficult situation of care has led to the fact that several people have been under police arrest for too long in relation to this rule. The positive feedback in this field is a good indication that the care situation has improved. Any further action to increase the number of prison sites will be assessed in the context of the current budgetary process.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e879	I thank you for the answer so far. That sounds very positive. That means, if I'm going to draw this further, we don't have to expect any more negative headlines in the media about the lack of custody places, with the handle that the minister here refers to. If that's true, we're very happy with that. For one of the most important things about not having enough capacity is that the criminals do not immediately get a response that is required, and – perhaps most importantly – that they do not give a signal to the victims of crime that their situation is being properly and properly handled. That is my main concern in relation to this matter. The next thing I'm going to ask the Minister in the course of this extension is whether the Minister is satisfied with today's situation in relation to the care problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e888	One can never be satisfied as long as one has a set queue and lacks a set-aside capacity. But what is known is that the priority of reconciliation is: 1st care, 2nd serious crime, among other things. gang crime, and the third crime of violence. But when we run the prisons by 95 pst. capacity, as we have done in 2001 and 2002, situations may arise in relation to preventing this, and of course it may also lead to long-distance transport of prisoners in this country. I have then taken the initiative to ensure that the police and the criminal services have such close contact that they know each other, so that the situation of priority group 1, taken care of, comes out with the situation that the representative mentions. It's going to be unacceptable that you can't insert anyone that's to be inserted. That's why, in a number of situations, we also have a violation of the 24-hour rule that we have imposed ourselves. And I see that we have fewer fractures, as an indication that we also have capacity. But I'm going to follow it carefully. There will always be a pressure on this as long as we have too little reconciliation capacity. But I'm going to follow it closely, because it's unacceptable that we can't put them in the custody that's going there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e893	Again: bright prospects, yes, for the Minister of Justice, but still with a few minor concerns. One thing he had to do with himself was the conditions around the costs. One thing that worries the police districts out there is that they sometimes have huge costs of transporting prisoners – I was saying land and beach around. And that means that large parts of their operating budgets agree to cover travel expenses and transport costs in this context. It is true that the justice sector also has its budgetary management every harvest, where it turns out that there have been large sums of money going through the system. And my challenge, as my last question here, is: Can the Minister of Justice think of assessing changes in relation to today's system, where you, for example. will a central budget line cover all the prisoner transport operations in the country? And could the Minister of Justice imagine a system in which an estimate was made, so that these major deviations were avoided from what was budgeted? I assume that there is a need that underlies the transport of prisoners, which should be crucial here, not the budget line – because it then splits anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e898	The representative is quite right that there may be expensive transportation. Of course, we're doing this to avoid getting into the situation that someone is being released that is not going to be released. There is no doubt that at times in the police districts it may seem burdensome. I know that, as much as I've traveled and visited them. I am well aware that there have been suggestions to make this a post in the way that the representative Ellings has said. I can't do that right now. But in that case it is a budgetary question. At least what I want to contribute to is to ensure that we follow the initiative of the representative of Ellingen in due course, namely to see if we can make costs more effective, including: by outsourcing the transport to persons other than the police, but under the supervision and control of the police. We're going to have a trial project to get more insight. Of course, I should actively contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e908	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘In the Engerdal municipality of Hedmark, the loner has more or less encouraged people to declare in connection with illegal snowmobile rides. In addition, considerable resources are being used to combat this driving. At the same time, many people wonder if this is the right use of time and resources. On a general basis, can the Council of State say how serious illegal driving with snowmobiles, compared to other offences, is?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e917	The government assumes that the ban on motor travel in outland is to be maintained and that violations of the law are enforced. The restrictive approach to illegal snowmobile driving in outland areas also appears to have broad support in the population. Illegal motor travel represents a major and growing problem in many places in the country. Our natural areas are increasingly heavily burdened by increased snowmobile use. Snowmobile riding breaks the stillness of nature and disturbs game and birds. Nature is important to humans, and the absence of engine noise is a prerequisite for many to get the good natural experiences. Unfortunately, compliance with the laws adopted by the Stortinget often requires police control and sanctions. This also applies to the law on motorised outlanding and watercourses. The size of the budget is aware when it is adopted that criminal sanctions require the use of resources in the police. Police cooperate well with the State's nature oversight, local and regional environmental protection authorities and other supervisory systems. In this context, it is mentioned that the Central Cooperation Committee for Nature Conservation this year has agreed to give priority to combating illegal snowmobile driving by supervision. Supervision will take place in cooperation between several actors, with the police at the head. Public information is important for the police in many areas. For the most serious criminal offences, tipphones have been established to make it easier for the population to come into contact with the right person when they have information of value. I don't think of this as being close to ‘declaration’, but as that the local police in their normal information gathering also in the field of environmental protection are addressing the public in order to get assistance to detect criminal offences. However, I would like to add that many of the information the police get from the audience about illegal snowmobile driving is in the form of complaints about noise and unwise driving. This is for the police to take seriously. My concern is all the more linked to the growing number of reports of various forms of harassment and threats to supervisors and others who are critical of the illegal use of snowmobiles. Of course, threats and damage works cannot be accepted, and I am pleased that the supervisors show that the supervision activities will be intensified in the areas known to be exposed to wild game driving. Police efforts to prevent and detect snowmobile driving will sometimes be such that one problem area needs to be concentrated for a period to show that infringements are not tolerated. This may require an increase in resource usage over a period of time, perhaps in the light of public requests. This is and shall be the assessment of the individual police officer, in the light of the assessments carried out. In addition, the police are assumed to be in charge of nature conservation in the ordinary, pre-planned service, which at this time of year will lead to regular snowmobile checks.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e938	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was among the longest answers I have ever received on questions, so I interpret that positively. But there was no answer to what I was really asking about, how serious illegal snowmobile driving is compared to other crimes. That's what I was thinking. In the case of the municipality we're talking about, Engerdal in Hedmark, there's a relatively small municipality in the population. It is large in scale, but small in population. The more important it is to see how many registered snowmobiles there are in the municipality. It's 246, and in relation to the population, it's a lot. Then one might wonder if large sections of the population believe that snowmobile driving is a serious offense. What I was wondering about in the question was how serious illegal snowmobile driving is compared to other crimes. I would also like to state that there is no doubt that illegal snowmobile driving is illegal, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e947	It would be very special if a Minister of Justice from Stortinget's pulpit began to grade the seriousness of the crime. At that time, the Minister of Justice was going to start putting himself in practice beyond the legal proceedings of the Grand Duchy. And there, as you know, there can be political disagreement. Some believe that something should be sanctioned more easily than other representatives believe, some believe that more stringent sanctions should be applied. But a Minister of Justice has a duty to follow the laws that apply. If you don't want to, maybe you should think of something else. It is the case that we have legislation, and that legislation should, of course, be enforced on the basis of local circumstances. There is no doubt that this is a conflict area, at the border between what people experience as right and fair locally, and what others experience as right and fair — also locally. It belongs to the difficult areas that the police have. As far as I know, the police are trying to do this at their best. If you are to criticise this area, you have to go to the legislation and see if it should be different. But as long as we have the law, it is my duty to ensure that it is maintained and exercised by the police, no matter what areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e954	The reason why this issue has arisen is, of course, the scarce resources that the police and the county council have, and how they use those resources. And there's a part, as I said, that reacts to the fact that there's quite a lot of resources being used on this particular thing. Of course, the word ‘declaration’ can be interpreted. But when a loner encourages people to report from, there might be something near the spectre, because it's not so often the loner or the police urge people to report about as well as all things. But in this particular case, you do it. Otherwise, I think there's a lot of work to do. Snowmobile driving provides a source of nutrition and can also create jobs in a district where jobs are scarce. Both environmental and nutritional considerations must go hand in hand here, so that you can find routes where it is lawful to drive. Wild rides don't want anyone to have, but healthy, sensible use of snowmobiles think I'm for the benefit of all, most of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e963	The representative and I agree on one thing, that no matter who runs snowmobiles, they're going to run like people. I would like to make it clear that part of the complaints that the police get is going on noise and crazy driving. In some places in the country – I don’t want to go into where – it is then added to just such a balance that the representative takes up, in the form of a loop. The underlying issue is the balance between environmental considerations and the active recreational interest of snowmobile driving. It's in the law. On a general basis, I would say that when the police ask for advice from the audience, it is not called in Norwegian ‘givership’, it is called ‘to bear witness’. Then we'll have to discuss where we're going to be allowed. The representative and I probably disagree on where we're going to legislate, and where we're not. But as long as we have legislation, the law must be observed. I am at least pleased that we can agree jointly that the person who has the vehicle should show sense and drive properly. At least that's a good contribution to law and order, no matter where you drive.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e976	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Reference to Article VG 6 March d.o.b. on page 9. The article mentions a female taxi driver who was subjected to severe violence in March 2000. The suspected perpetrator has not been brought in by the police, and there is a lot of evidence that the police have not made any significant efforts to find him. The police have, however, been very effective in punishing the driver for a speeding fine. What do the Council of State think about police priorities in this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e985	The police directorate has informed that the female driver of the taxi in 1998 was given a presentation after a speed violation. The proposal was adopted. It has been tried to recover, but has not been paid. So far about this ratio. The same taxi driver was subjected to a violent incident in March 2000 where she was knocked down by a passenger. The case has been under investigation at Søndre Buskerud Police District. A person is suspicious of the relationship. However, the police have not succeeded in questioning him, since he has been abroad since 1998 and reported emigration from Norway. His residence has been unknown to the police until the end of the year. He has during the period been requested in the police internal records, without this having resulted. Suspects reported repatriation to Norway in November 2002, and the police chief reports that they will be interrogated in the near future. For the sake of order, the infringement of the provisions of the Road Traffic Act by the Drose driver and the violent incident to which she was subjected are two cases without any connection. In other words, the fact that a criminally prosecuted person himself is later exposed to a criminal offence cannot in any way be given priority over the execution of the criminal offence he himself has committed. But of course, I am very serious about the action the taxi driver was subjected to, and violence should be given high priority in all police districts. It is therefore unfortunate and regrettable that the investigation in this specific case has been ongoing for so long without the identity of the perpetrator being clarified. The chief of police informed me that the matter had a high priority, and that the investigation of the case has not been abandoned at any time. I'm referring to this, and I'm also stressing the general: we're not going to take lightly the crime of violence. What the taxi driver was exposed to is, of course, totally unacceptable on the part of society, and that is unacceptable no matter who implements it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1000	I thank you for your answer. It is very nice to hear that the Minister of Justice guarantees us that a hearing will be held in the near future. I've been following this case for a year. Yesterday it was actually three years since the female taxi driver was exposed to this violence episode. There are three years that have been marked by a lot of correspondence, many meetings, several exchanges of investigators, and several tips on where the perpetrator has been — including local observations — but minimally with police action. You haven't brought him in, as it turned out from the answer. However, in the case of the speedboat, a significant degree of action has been demonstrated, with a requirement for imprisonment. My question to the Council of State is whether he sees that it may be difficult for an ordinary individual who is exposed to such a serious violent incident to distinguish between the police's actions in these two cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1011	I'll link some comments to the question. But I don't want to go into the matter, because I have had to get information about the way I should. But of course I can see that a single person who gets a speed ticket, and then experiences a violent act, can experience it as offensive. It is such that acts of violence have no doubt that we should react strictly to them, without thus seeing the two relationships together. It is a game rule for all drivers, not least the driver of a taxi, to comply with road traffic rules. But of course, there shouldn't be any argument that you don't engage and eagerly do what you can to solve the crime of violence. I've said that in a previous answer, and I'd like to repeat it. I have received the facts in the matter that the person has emigrated from Norway, but that he is now here. I then assume that he is being questioned, and that you are doing what you can to get to the bottom of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1018	I perceive that it may be difficult for individuals to see the difference in such matters. Otherwise, I can inform the Council of State that the taxi driver, Kirsten Schei, is present at the gallery here today. Her case is not unique. It's the opposite of the rule, and not the exception. Major crime of violence and profit-crime is not a priority. But if you drive a little too fast, the police are coming very quickly in Norway. I have experienced firsthand gross, unprovoked violence on Karl Johan's Gate – well-known perpetrator, the case filed by the Oslo Police Chamber. It is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice for the priorities of the police. What will the Minister do specifically to strengthen police priorities in relation to gross violence?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1025	Firstly, in the case of criminal investigations and prosecution, a Minister of Justice is not responsible for it. That's what the Riksadvokat is. But there is, of course, a dialogue between the Riksadvokat, the Ministry of Justice and the Police Directorate. And there is no doubt that the Riksadvokat’s leaders are on the verge of fighting both profit crime and violent crime. There's no doubt about it. There is also no doubt that this is so – among other things. in the Department’s letter of credit to the Police Directorate – emphasis is placed on, for example: in Oslo, but also otherwise, just have to deal with the everyday crime that I perceive the representative is asking for. This is what the police are trying to do through what they call problem-oriented police work. It's also done at the central police station in Oslo, which I realize the representative has been in touch with, just by working that way. The latest available statistics had begun to produce results. It requires close cooperation, and we're going to have a zero tolerance line against violence. There's no doubt that we're going to have it. I take with me the representative's examples, because I perceive that they are serious experience and serious intent. And I'm commenting on it the way I do here from the Stortinge pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1035	I would like to ask the following questions to the Governmental Council Dørum: ‘Norwegian Arms Act is strict. Large weapons collections are not uncommon in Norwegian homes. In an attack at a home in Eastfold, the police found 40 firearms, over 20,000 shots, one hand grenade, and various police effects. This poses a safety risk to the environment and a high risk of weapons coming into the hands of criminal communities. In private homes in Eastfold, there are more than 73 000 firearms stored, while in all of Norway around 73,000 firearms are stored. 1.7 million weapons. What does the Council of State do to increase the control and possibilities of stockpiles of weapons at home?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1044	The legislation in force provides for reliable and fit persons to keep firearms in private homes if they have a clear and recognised need to do so and provided that the weapons are kept safe and sound. All authorisations for the private acquisition and storage of firearms are granted by the police under the Arms Act following an individual assessment of the applicant and his or her needs and suitability. The most recognised reasons for granting permits for acquisition and storage are hunting, anti-competitive shooting and weapons collection. The Arms Act requires that the needs be present for the entire period of time allowed for the holder to keep the weapons. If the need fails, the police may revoke the permit. The same applies if he is no longer fit to take care of weapons. Weapons legislation and compliance monitoring have been the subject of considerable and long-term attention. In 1998, the law was amended to strengthen the rules for monitoring the storage of firearms in private homes. Provisions were made for physical protection of weapons, and the police were given permission to check their custody. Guidelines have been laid down for this control work by the Ministry, where the police are specifically required to control those with a larger number of weapons at home. This is particularly relevant to persons with weapons collections. The page also amended the weapons regulations in line with these guidelines. In the case of weapons collectors, who often have a large number of weapons in private homes, there is otherwise a regulatory requirement to be a member of the Norwegian Arms Historical Society to obtain permission to assemble. In practice, this leads to greater demands for weapons collectors, and the police have noticed that there is now much more seriousity over weapons collectors than was the case in the past. The police, in cooperation with the gunners’ organisations, have recently developed rules to verify that applicants seeking authorisation for the acquisition and preservation of weapons of competition are real and active athletes of their sport. These rules will now be used by local police officers in the context of applications and in the context of follow-up checks. The Ministry has no overall survey of the number of checks. However, the Oslo Police District has informed the Police Directorate that it has carried out ten checks and several are planned this year. I'm going to follow closely the police's follow-up to the police's checkpoints that the police have now received under the Arms Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1061	I thank you for your answer. The law already imposes strict requirements on how to store weapons. Lockdown, weapons cabinets and connection to the alarm centre are some of the measures. The shaking case from Eastfold showed that the weapons were not stored here as they were supposed to. We know that easy access to weapons in general increases the possibility that weapons will be used more easily for criminal purposes. That a human being should be able to gain access to so many weapons that he can almost wage a war alone is shocking. From the NRK we heard that the police described the seizure of the private weapons arsenal as having the person armed to his teeth. The large number of seizures was also characterised by an arms dealer in Moss to the press as ‘not a surprising number. No, if you first start collecting, there can be a lot of weapons quickly." Today, the requirements for members of shooting clubs are strict. How can similar procedures be implemented for other types of weapons? How can police and defence procedures be strengthened so that the arms law has the necessary effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1074	Now there is a total of 1.5 to 1.6 million firearms in Norway. So most of them are hunting weapons. We have a strong organisational culture in Norway, which in itself will be stronger than any control by the police. It's keeping discipline and the coast. I know some of these organizational cultures myself. It was under the resistance of responsible, serious and proper organisations that the visits were carried out in connection with the 1998 arms legislation. We have the homes, and the police have to practice them. But, of course, we're totally dependent on following closely where you belong locally. I'm not surprised that the police in Oslo are just doing this, because in the capital of some contexts you can have an inconspicuous situation. Therefore, it is important to follow up and follow up. We all deserve to have respect for the civil tradition in Norway that has made it possible for us to have a significant number of hunting weapons that people handle in a proper way. Unfortunately, in some contexts, the police have had to have additional powers to combat slippage environments that do not show social responsibility. Those homes will be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1081	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I record that the Council of State wants to follow closely the police's follow-up of the control houses that we have under the Arms Act. In an estimated 40 pst. guns are available by Norwegian private homes. Section 27(a) of the Arms Act provides the police with the opportunity to check that the weapons are properly stored in private homes. Such control may be exercised only after prior notification. It was claimed by the Arms Association that § 27a of the Arms Act violates the general legal protection of a person. This is the case in relation to existing legislation in Section 2 of the Police Act, Section 95 of the Criminal Code, Section 102 of the Constitution and Article 8 of the European Commission on Human Rights, where it is essential to have a search order from the court before the police – and therefore in Norway the prosecution authority – need to enter private homes. How can the Council of State contribute to strict control without breaking either the Constitution § 102 or the EMK?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1092	At the time to which the representative refers, it is correct that one of the arms organizations, the Arms Association, has the position to which this is referred. Most Norwegian organisations dealing with weapons have accepted the legislation, but on the basis that we show confidence in those who are willing to take responsibility. That's what shooting teams do, these organizations do. We've just been given these additional provisions in order to intervene in cases where people think they have a self-appointed right not to respect the ‘spirit of the law’, to say it that way. That's why the police got the homes. They were contentious, but I am convinced that they were necessary and that it is important that they are enforced and used. But the basic thing is that we are able to keep up with the enormous strength that lies in the civil society in Norway, where most serious organisations and people who have knowledge and insight, come along with and, if necessary, also address the issue with the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1102	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: «The health authorities of the Member States have identified the possibility of receiving day-to-day medical care in Norwegian municipalities, which resulted in fewer than half of the municipalities offering day-to-day medical care. This creates major problems for patients. Is this satisfactory to the Council of State, and what will the Council of State do about it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1111	Norwegian Gallup has carried out a day-to-day monitoring of the availability of municipal medical services on behalf of the State Health Authority. The survey was based on the telephone number on page two of the telephone directory under the heading ‘If the help can wait a bit’, i.e. in situations where it is not necessary to contact the emergency medical number 113. The examination was a test of how easy it was to get in touch with a doctor in the municipality with a guard on that day. Access to a day-care centre may include: be applicable to travellers and residents who do not have access to permanent staff in the municipality and in cases where the establishment is not available for different reasons. The specified telephone number for each municipality was attempted to call up to three times for up to one minute. The study was conducted during the weeks 47–49 and took place during the period from 7 p.m. 0900-1100 and at 0900 1200-1500. As a result, monitoring is limited and results must be interpreted accordingly. The representative Alvheim concludes that less than half of the municipalities offer medical services during the day. I do not think that is the basis for drawing such a conclusion. Inhabitants in need of medical care during the day will normally contact their regular staff. The decision-making body shall discharge its responsibilities in this context in accordance with the rules laid down in the Norwegian Medical Association Agreement with the Central Association of the Municipalities. However, I am not satisfied that the results of the screening showed problems in getting in touch with doctors on duty in over half of the country's municipalities. That's why I wrote letters to the municipalities of the country. In the letter I have asked the municipalities to review their system and make the necessary improvements so that the residents can get through on the telephone to a doctor's office that has been guarded. Furthermore, the State Health Inspectorate has submitted the report on the monitoring to the county doctors and asked them to carry out the necessary follow-up of the municipalities in their counties. I would like to stress the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure that residents who live or stay temporarily in the municipality have access to the necessary healthcare services. The municipality has obligations to organise immediate assistance services both within and outside the office of the medical office. Work is in progress on developing a common regulation on the acute medical chain. In this context, I would like to consider clarifying the requirements for access to municipal medical care during the day. But first of all, this is a matter of ensuring good practice in information and availability. It's essentially not a resource question or a rule question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1124	I thank the Council of State for the answer and for having addressed this report and the consequences it seems to point out. The fixed medical system was introduced in 2001 and was to ensure that all of us are a fixed doctor, continuity in the medical/patient relationship and better medical care when we needed it. Unfortunately, this has not been the case, at least not in most of the country's municipalities. This has caused problems for many patients, and there is evidence that individual patients in acute stages have resigned at death because they were throwing balls in a system that does not take responsibility. The Health Authority’s survey shows that it totaled 31 p.m. by the municipalities was not possible for the patient to get in touch with a doctor. My follow-up question to the Minister of Health will then be: Why were the municipalities not subject to a medical watch regime in the daytime when the fixed medical system was in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1133	The municipalities have had and have a responsibility for medical care in the daytime. What we're talking about here is the way the municipalities follow up this responsibility. I readily agree with the representative Alvheim that what this study indicates is that the availability of such assistance at daytime is too poor. I believe that there is something the municipalities have to put in place on the basis of the agreements and obligations they have. I ignore those municipalities where there are problems with toy coverage. Fortunately, however, far fewer municipalities have such problems since the introduction of the fixed medical system. It's in itself an expression that you've got a better availability. The conclusions reached by the representative Alvheim on developments following the implementation of the fixed medical scheme are at least no basis for this report.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1140	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that it may be difficult and nearly impossible for a regular to travel on a medical visit from a full-scale patient office in the daytime. However, I have no understanding that the municipalities and KS have taken advantage of this situation with regard to the fixed medical system, and therefore have failed to establish emergency services during the day in the municipality. We can't have a system where it can be deadly to get sick in the firm's office. I am aware that new regulations are now to be developed in the field of emergency medical services outside hospitals. Will the Minister of Health then ensure that municipalities are required to set up a day-to-day medical watch system, so that patients can be sure for the future that emergency care will be provided in the municipalities when the need arises? It is a poor solution that the AMK centres should be charged with regular medical care.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1149	Let me repeat that it is the responsibility of the municipalities that there is an accessible medical service in the daytime. In the context of the joint regulation on emergency medical services to which the representative Alvheim now refers, I would like to assess whether there is a need to clarify the requirements for this. This survey is therefore about the availability of this offer on the telephone, and not whether the municipalities have failed to fulfil their obligation to have such a medical service. There is no evidence in this study, nor is there any basis for this. I believe that by simple means the municipalities can provide good information and availability to the doctors who actually have this responsibility during the day. That is also my main message in the letter I sent to all the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1159	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘More authorities are planning to reduce the number of medical submarines and replace them by far fewer high-speed ambulances. This seems to be a good idea for people who do not see the differences between land transport and maritime transport. Unfortunately, the reality is that you often do not need a boat with extreme speed, but a solid and robust boat that can withstand bad weather and rough seas. How does the Council of State view this problem, and what will be done to ensure the coast a good transport offer for doctors and patients?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1168	In the 2003 governance document for regional health companies, I have asked for a review of the emergency medical chain to be carried out. Ambulance boat service is in many places a very important part of emergency medical services outside hospitals, and it is in line with my management message that several regions are now reviewing the quality and structure of this service as well. Many aspects have to be taken into account when assessing the structure of the ambulance service. The ambulance service must be professionally sound as a medical service capable of making a first-time diagnosis, stabilising and, where appropriate, providing treatment to the patient, and bringing it to the appropriate level of medical care rapidly. It requires both quality and speed of service. At the same time, several locations along the coast are not the basis for running a clean ambulance service, but the service is operated by combined boats, so-called community boats, which take several types of missions, including showers by doctors and patients. These are, to a large extent, boats that are not specially adapted neither for the transport of patients nor for medical purposes, including: have many passenger seats and are not suitable for ambulance missions. When an ambulance is necessary, rapid transport can be essential for the patient’s life and health. Therefore, smaller, high-speed craft with high operational safety may be better suited for the transport of patients and shelled by health professionals. It must of course be a clear premise that the boats are stable and navigable and can withstand bad weather and rough seas. A project is now under way to develop a new type of ambulance boat that will provide more cost-effective operation and better service quality. The aim is to get boats that are more tailor-made to carry out ambulance missions at sea, among others. in order to be able to provide advanced emergency medical assistance on board, while at the same time complying with the seaworthiness requirements to be met in the ambulance and medical services on the Norwegian coast. The feedback I have received on the ongoing work of regional health companies shows that local adaptations are being found by switching to more reindeer-cultivated ambulances, while elsewhere assessing the establishment of the model for a community boat. Feedback also gives me confidence that both local medical competence and maritime competence will be included when the service is planned. I want to follow up on the development of the emergency medical service in the health regions, including the ambulance service.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1179	I thank you for your answer. It's true, as the Council of State says, that we have a combination of services, of which the ambulance service becomes part in some districts. But it's a long run from what we have today, where we have ambulance boats in every district and every little place. It's a long run to a high-speed boat that goes in 50 knots of speed from place to place, and that's going to be a clean ambulance, and what we're in danger of getting, namely combined boats – let's call it community boats. But what's on the table is that the boat should go from place to place. This is contrary to what we have today, as we have ambulance boats, and people are guaranteed the best possible connection to hospitals from where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1186	The representative Bastisen has a comment rather than a question in what he now said. I believe that we have community boats that are combined boats and clean ambulances, and I also believe in the future that we need such a combination. In many places there will be no basis for clean ambulances, no matter how fast they had to go and how robust they would be. There will then be a question of balancing local conditions with cost-effectiveness requirements and not least with regard to quality, also taking into account medical developments which increasingly make it possible to provide medical assistance in this prehospital phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1193	What we have today, we know it works. Those boats go to a large extent in 25 knots. They have room for doctors, they have room for the sick, and they can go from place to place at zero comma nothing. What is being added up to today is a completely different type of boat that is going to go from place to place and in that way pick up, and then go to the hospital. What will the Council of State do to keep the structure we have today? Will the Council of State go in for a whole new type of boat to go from place to place at extreme speed? Has the council ever tried to break a foot or an arm and got help in such a boat?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1200	I don't think this is the place to expand my personal experience in emergency medical situations, I could do that in a different context. What is my main point, and which is important for me to make it clear here, is that having a project to develop a new type of ambulance boat that meets the requirements for efficiency and quality in a better way does not mean that you are changing the overall structure of ambulance boats in Norway. We are still going to have a mixture of clean ambulances and combined boats, community boats, as the representative Bastisen has described it. What's happening now is we're doing a review of the structure. I think that's absolutely necessary. We cannot maintain a structure as an objective in itself at all times, but we must look at how it can be developed and improved. That's what companies do, and I want them to do it with sufficient medical and maritime competence in that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1220	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1234	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. Question 13 will be answered at the end of the Questionnaire, i.e. after question 29.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1243	‘In VG on 27 February of this year we can read about a doctoral thesis by the research researcher Amy Holtan, who proves that only 15 out of 100 children for whom child protection is taken care of are placed in foster homes with their own relatives. According to this dissertation, there seems from the point of view of child protection to be a deliberate strategy not to place foster home children in families for their own relatives. Is the Council of State satisfied with a practice that leads to such a result, and what will it possibly do with it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1250	In the public study on child protection, NOU 2000:12, the committee proposed to legislate or prescribe that child protection should first be sought for possible foster homes in the family or the network around the child. The proposal is discussed in a section of the Report. No 40 for 2001-2002, on the protection of children and young people. The Ministry writes that child protection should be assessed to a greater extent than now as an alternative to foster homes outside the family. At the same time, when choosing a foster home, one must make a concrete assessment of what is best for the individual child. When child protection does not choose a biological family as a foster home, it may have several reasonable reasons. For example, a person does not always find members of the family or the network who meet the minimum requirements that child protection must impose on foster parents. Neither will everyone deal with the double roles and the potential conflict of loyalty that lies in being both relatives and foster homes. The criteria for selecting foster parents are professionally complex. The general form of laws and regulations is not appropriate to this issue. In the Communication, I therefore conclude that it is most appropriate that the issue of the use of biological family and networks be addressed in guidelines. This is how it is possible to give good control signals and at the same time mention this issue thoroughly enough. During the examination of this biggest communication this year, the majority of the Committee concluded the Government's conclusions and justifications on the positioning of relatives in foster homes. The majority of the Committee considered that the desire for more family positions should not go beyond the main objective of ensuring the best interests of the child. The Ministry writes in that paper that there is no research-based knowledge of whether or not such placements should occur more frequently. I don't want to draw any final conclusions about how we should interpret the findings of Amy Holtan's doctoral thesis. I still believe it is uncertain whether a much higher proportion of the foster children should live with their own relatives, but the thesis indicates that such placements have worked well until now. I would like to point out that these foster homes are selected by Norwegian child protection services. Among other things, the Befring Committee and researcher Amy Holtan state that Norwegian child protection services are more sceptical about relative positions than child protection services in several other countries. There may be good reason to claim that scepticism in this country has been too great. On the other hand, the critical assessments for the recruitment of foster homes may have helped to make the selected foster homes particularly suited to the needs of the foster children. My main point is that we cannot automatically transfer positive findings from current practice to a thoughtful situation where much more foster children are placed with their own relatives. I do not find a basis for answering unequivocally yes or no to the question of whether I am satisfied with the current practice. I see the need to focus on the resources available to the family. We are now looking at clear indications that relative positions should have been used more often, and I want to convey this to child protection. At the same time, the choice of foster home must always be based on individual assessments. The specific circumstances that speak for and oppose the location of relatives or networks may be complicated, and these must be weighed against each other. Like the majority of the Storting, I believe that the governance signal from state authorities on this issue should come in the form of guidelines, and they will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1263	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I'm saying that point one must be to secure the child's best and quality there. But this is still a kind of thing that we're reading about and about and getting in touch with, that's a lot of feeling, with broken ties to our own biological family, and where there's hurt feelings. There are quite uplifting situations, and foster home affairs are one of the most profound and difficult things to do. Therefore, it is important to show great consideration here. But there's still something striking when Norway clearly stands out internationally because such a small part is located with its own family. I'm worried that there might be a professional direction and an educational direction that gives this competence staff a signal that they're going to be in this path. I would like to ask the Council of State to answer whether she wants to go into this with a view to also checking whether this is a special educational/disciplinary direction, and also to ask whether these guidelines – which I agree with should come – can come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1272	Now, when we go into and assess the guidelines in view of the fact that we are going to change them, and this also needs to be disseminated to the entire child protection service in a good way, it would be natural to look at all aspects of the practices that have so far developed in Norway. In my reply to the representative, I also stated that it may be a little strange that we here in Norway have so much lower proportion of relatives' places than the other country has. It is also natural to see if we can find the reasons for this, and whether there are special conditions that warrant it. The guidelines are coming. At least I expect to have the new guidelines ready during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1281	Once again, I thank the Council of State for its answer. I'm glad that she wants to look at both curricula, education and guidelines, so that one then might be able to correct the obvious bias in these issues of distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1288	Yeah, we're going to come back. However, I would like to make it clear that in each case the foster home must be the most important one, taking into account the individual child's situation and needs. And I also want to make it clear that there are no formal barriers in the law or the law to using biological families as foster parents today. It is also important that we know, so the debate that the representative raises about this is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1297	I have the following questions for the Minister for Children and Family: ‘It has been revealed that some private kindergartens do not have an orderly employment relationship for employees. Will the Council of State now, when the public support is to be extended, ensure that all beneficiaries have orderly pay and employment conditions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1306	The Working Environment Act gives all employees the right to orderly pay and work, i.e. the right to a written contract of employment and working conditions in line with the requirements of the Working Environment Act. Other issues relating to pay and employment are left to the social partners. In his question, the representative Giske points out that it is ‘discovered’ that some private kindergartens do not have an orderly pay and employment situation. I guess he's here aiming for an investigation that the Ministry of Children and Family has been made about costs in the kindergarten sector. The consultancy company Fürst and Höverstad has, among other things: the fact that private kindergartens have lower staffing and lower costs of pay and social expenditure than municipal kindergartens. Only one third of private kindergartens have pension agreements for their employees. This could be explained by the fact that private kindergartens have lower incomes than municipalities and have had to adapt to a lower cost level. However, conditions vary widely in the kindergarten sector. Some municipalities grant grants to private kindergartens. These municipalities provide, inter alia: conditions attached to the grant which contribute to ensuring good pay and working conditions for employees of private kindergartens. As Minister for Children and Family Affairs with special responsibility for gender equality, I am not satisfied that so many women are falling poorly compared to, for example, women. pension. The kindergarten sector is highly women-dominated, and it is also unfortunate that many private kindergartens do not provide their employees with pension schemes. Wages and working conditions may also affect the quality of childcare services. Stability, competence and experience cost, but I believe it is true to bet on this. It is both an equality policy and a educational goal that men are also a visible part of the childhood life. We need men who give children time, care and a male role model. Good pay and working conditions can also be an instrument to make more men want to work in kindergartens. However, the situation in private kindergartens represents economic challenges. A requirement that employees in private kindergartens have equivalent pay and working conditions to those in municipal kindergartens would incur significant costs. However, the adopted increases in the operating grant to kindergartens from 1 August this year are the beginning of a process of giving private kindergartens greater economic space for action. I can assure the representative Giske that I am closely following developments in the nursery sector. I can also assure you that I have the objective of equal treatment for private and municipal kindergartens with me in the follow-up to the nursery contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1325	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Governments themselves have a background from work in an employee organisation and have worked for rights both in terms of collective agreements, wages and pensions. Now we have a situation where the private kindergartens receive the same financial support as the public, and then it should also be reasonable to make the same demands on pay, employment and pension conditions in these kindergartens. We see that some municipalities now require collective agreements in the kindergartens they provide support. My question is whether the Council of State will be so specific as to say that she will also be involved in demanding collective agreements in the kindergartens to be supported by the State. I am also interested to hear whether she will accept that the lack of pensions and other inferior professional rights are used as a competitive advantage for private kindergartens in relation to the public, or whether she will use the important means of making State aid available to employees in private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1336	I think the representative Giske and I really agree that it is a wish that everyone working in kindergartens should have the same good pay and working conditions. In some female-dominated professions, one does not get this today, and especially in this sector we see it in the case of private kindergartens. The proposal, which will shortly be about changes to the Kindergarten Act, proposes a rule on non-economic treatment of private and municipal kindergartens. The proposition will be submitted together with the big message, and we aim to mention this in the message. Whether you are going to – we are going to say – a claim, or whether you are going to put the private kindergartens here in the same situation, and that they can then do as usual, namely to enter into collective agreements, becomes part of the discussion in the notification. That's why we want to get back to this discussion. I can't say here and now that we're going to require 100 pst. that these requirements will be clarified, also in view of the fact that we have not yet completed this issue in the Government relating to kindergartens and collective agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1343	I can vividly imagine that there may be different views within the government that we have today, in relation to professional rights, but I feel quite certain that the Council of State, with its background, understands the situation of the Education Association, when you do not get a collective agreement with private kindergartens. We have seen, for example: that the employees of Portvejen Barnehage in Grimstad have striked because they simply do not get a collective agreement, and then the question of whether the Council of State and the State will be an ally with the employees in getting a collective agreement, so that you can arrange pay and working conditions. It is an effective tool if we say that State aid disappears if we do not ensure that the collective agreements that employees actually require are concluded. And I would encourage the Council of State as strongly as I can, to fight that fight within the Government. She will at least get full support from the Workers' Party, of course, for such a policy, and I wish she could also be a little more specific here and say that she will work for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1348	It's true that I understand this problem very well. For me, it's actually that when we now facilitate the economic non-discrimination of private and public kindergartens, at least that bend is gone when it comes to going to the step of establishing a good tariff agreement for employees. I can at least confirm here and now that we are going to do that, and then in the message we will come back with a discussion of this and possibly look at how to handle this in a good way. But I understand the problem very well, and I agree that basically everyone should have good pay and pension agreements and also collective agreements. That is also my position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1356	I have the following questions: ‘Two 15-year-old children were recently imprisoned in Oslo because they robbed peers. Prison does not help children who have started a criminal racetrack to end up in crime. Police can now summon parents to children at risk of conversation and strengthen cooperation with child protection. However, several report a lack of child protection services. The consequence of this is insecurity among the population, especially in major cities. What will the Council of State do to improve the provision of child protection treatment to criminal children and their siblings?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1365	Everyone has the right to feel safe that they will not be subjected to violence and crime in the public space. The development we are now witnessing is therefore a serious problem, both for those who are being abused and for those who are carrying out the criminal acts. The representative of Holstad points out that prison does not help stop a criminal racetrack. I agree with this. Child protection is central to the work. Child protection today has the opportunity to put in place different measures against people under the age of 18 who commit crime. The measures may be addressed to the child, to the parents or given in a combination. These measures range from advice and guidance and other relief measures such as: Multisystemic therapy, MST, and voluntary out-of-home forced accommodation in an institution — possibly in combination with care. It is important for me to stress that the purpose of measures under today’s child protection law is not to punish the child or to protect society but to change the child’s behaviour. For children under the criminal detainee, parents or other guardians are primarily responsible for responding. When they are unable to follow up, the child protection system is connected and given further responsibility for the follow-up. These measures shall initially focus on voluntary relief measures. In this context, it may be appropriate to strengthen the competence of child protection and further develop cooperation with other bodies. It could be school, leisure and community. It is also important to motivate different bodies to cooperate to find the best integrated solutions. If voluntary relief measures are not sufficient, children who commit repeated crime may be placed in an institution for follow-up or treatment. This location may be a proper response if a customised offer is made with training and treatment options. I would like to mention that the Ministry of Children and Family recently developed a knowledge status on the conditions that must be in place for institution placement to be successful. These criteria will be applied when the country assumes responsibility for the institutions from 1 January 2004. However, I would like to stress that it is the home-based measures that show the best results in relation to children and young people with serious behavioural problems. In particular, this applies to the experience with MST. There is reason to believe that this method has a high potential and that more than those offered today can benefit from it. Among other things, the method has captured children and young people with migrant backgrounds to a small extent. Many families with a migrant background have the potential that is primarily required: a network in which treatment can be anchored. In some cases it may be appropriate to use older siblings or other relatives. We'll evaluate whether it's time to train therapists with a migrant background in this method. In parallel, we're betting on another method, PMT, Parent Management Training, for younger children who show signs of developing behavioral problems. Finally, I would like to point out that we do not know enough about this group of children who are driving other children. We will therefore take the initiative to identify who these children are and what background they have. Only by increasing our knowledge of who the children are and what background they have can we put in place effective measures that can prevent a criminal racetrack and get these children back on track.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1380	I thank you for your answer. Some time ago, a police patrol was called to a primary school in Oslo. There was a nine-year-old boy who had turned himself all wrong, and the school didn't rule with him. The parents wouldn't take responsibility for him, and it ended up the police patrol beaming Oslo after relief measures for this boy all day. It ended with these officials sitting with the boy trapped alternately – first one and then the other – until the change was over. Parents should be helped to limit them. Children suffering from lack of supervision and control often develop criminal behaviour. Barners, who have recently run Oslo, show how important it is to take action at an early stage. It would be interesting to know if the Council of State has special measures, let alone advice, for Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1389	I initially fully agree that parents need help setting limits. The MST treatment, which we so far had to deal with, is just such a measure. In Oslo, we've had quite a lot of problems lately, and there we've actually taken a grip. The police, in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo, have taken the initiative for their own children's project. The project will start with a mapping. Letters have recently been issued in the Oslo Police District to provide such an overview of these persons under 18 years of age, with particular emphasis on them under 15 years of age. There will be close cooperation between the police and the Child Welfare Service in Oslo. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Municipality of Oslo, the Oslo Police Department and the Children's Protection Service in Oslo have just had a meeting. It's close to thinking that some of the methods I've referred to here could be used. We also have other methods that can be applied to these children. It is important to work together and to start this work. In the future, the departments concerned will be in close contact with both the police and the municipality of Oslo to simply assess whether the work should be allocated new resources, and in that case we will be willing to do so. This is important. These children need help.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1398	Unfortunately, this problem is not only in Oslo, but it is also located and registered in the surrounding neighbouring municipalities. Six months ago, I got access to a security log from a neighboring municipality in Oslo, where a mother despaired of calling the local waitress and asking for assistance. Her 14-year-old son had gone berserk, because he did not get 200 kroner from his mother. He had found a ballwood and was driving his destructive exercises on the inventory. This increased, and they tried to get in touch with child protection without child protection resources in this case. The boy ended up having to spend the night in the prison, 14 years old. The question will be whether the Council of State would like to strengthen the local economy in terms of preventive work of the nature we have just talked about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1405	I should be very happy to do that. In this connection, I would like to refer, inter alia, to: the recent issue of the child protection message in Stortinget. Many of the measures proposed there will focus on and give far greater priority to the early entry of child protection issues and vulnerable children and young people. It is also essential that we strengthen the competence of child protection and that we cooperate with the various professional groups in the first-line service in relation to the most difficult children in our society. In addition, we have a children’s and young people’s message that is now being treated in the United Kingdom, which takes into account and proposes a large number of – to say – local initiatives, suggestions on how to create a better breeding environment for children and young people. If we can't reverse the trend, if we don't manage to get into the prevention level to a greater extent, get local politicians to contribute in different ways and to take responsibility, I'm afraid this issue will only increase. We're going to do our thing, and I'm going to do mine to put this in focus in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1417	I have the following questions for the Minister for Children and Family: ‘I would like to ask, in the light of a number of issues that I have been made aware of, about legal certainty and access to justice in social matters. When the respondent avoids taking a decision on the substance of the matter to assess the adequacy of care, the case is dismissed in the appeal on the grounds that the case is of a discretionary nature. How does the Council of State feel that legal certainty can be ensured in order to obtain effective judicial remedies in the event of appeals by the county councillors?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1426	I assume that the representative Woldseth's questions have a background on a specific matter that has been discussed in the media lately. This is a matter of disagreement between child protection services and the biological family on the choice of foster home for a sibling couple. Childcare did not follow up the family’s desire to use close families as foster parents. The decision to take care is currently being taken by the county council. If there is disagreement between the Child Welfare Service and biological parents about the choice of foster home, the county may also address this issue. In many cases, however, the county council leaves to the child protection service in the municipality to decide on the choice of foster home. This is because the child protection service in the municipalities is in contact with the foster parents concerned and conducts the necessary studies of their suitability. Similarly, it will be difficult for courts to answer as detailed a question as the choice of foster home for a child. Therefore, the courts decide whether to take care of a child, while the discretionary question of choosing a specific place of foster or institution is left to the care of the child in the municipality. The choice of foster home under the Child Protection Act shall be specifically assessed on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the situation and needs of the individual child. Of course, there is nothing wrong with using biological families as foster parents. In many cases, on the contrary, this could be the best solution for children who, for various reasons, cannot live with their parents. However, in some cases there may be factors that speak against such a solution, such as: that there are no persons in the family who meet the minimum requirements that should be imposed on foster parents, or who are at risk of being involved in a double role or in a conflict of loyalty that could affect the child. It is possible that child protection services should consider biological relatives to a greater extent than is currently the case when children are to be placed in foster homes. The Ministry of Children and Family will therefore ensure that this is clarified in revised guidelines on foster homes. The majority of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs agreed to mention this in guidelines for the examination of the notification of St. No 40 for 2001-2002 in February this year. In general, I think it is important that the biological parents are heard prior to the choice of foster home. Most children who are placed in foster homes must have association and other contact with their parents. It is therefore important to facilitate optimum cooperation between biological parents and foster parents. The choice of foster parents that the biological parents clearly oppose should therefore be avoided where possible. I will further clarify this in the context of the forthcoming revision of the foster home circular.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1437	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I don't know if I was very reassured about legal certainty, which I would like to see strengthened. As the Council of State is probably familiar with, I have notified Asker Municipality of a lack of service and insensibility in the light of the fact that in the specific case referred to by the Council of State, it was a family-approved foster home. However, Ashker’s municipality chose to place the children with a gay couple. The regulations on foster home placement state that gay foster homes are not to be used where adoption is likely to occur. In the past, the same regulation stated that children should not be placed in gay foster homes unless their parents agreed. My question to the Council of State is: how to avoid children being placed in the long-term with gay foster parents as a circumvention of the adoption paragraph? And: Can the Council of State imagine reintroducing the regulation that parents should consent to children being placed with gay couples?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1446	First, I would like to say that the legislation as it stands today does not distinguish between short-term and long-term accommodation in foster homes. There is essentially the same requirement for foster parents regardless of the duration of placement, because it is not always possible to predict how long the foster home position will be. The circular indicates that in cases where adoption is applicable on a permanent basis and is known to be so, gay and lesbian families should not be used as foster homes. This is because gay and lesbian pers. There is no opportunity to adopt today. So to the second question. The regulation was actually amended by the previous government in 2000, and the sentence that if children were to be placed in gay or lesbian families, the position of biological parents was to be given weight at any such location was removed. In connection with the guidelines that I am now going to make, I will consider taking this back in. In general, I believe that parents should have some influence on the choice of foster home, because in all cases the parental responsibility has not been lost.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1455	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I want to mention another matter that has also appeared in the media lately, and that the Council of State is probably familiar with, the Kvænangen case. There, child protection was upheld in the custody court. I will not go into the specific matter, but the opinion of the Child Protection Service after the case has been decided in the courts is quite alarming. As the Council of State has already mentioned in several contexts here, the Stortinget decided in February that the biological family should be considered as an appropriate foster home. Despite this, the municipality said in this case that they would not even consider the grandparents as foster parents in this specific case. The argument is that there is closeness to biological parents, or that biological family may disagree slightly with child protection, and that there will therefore be cooperation problems. Is it true, then, that it's going to be child protection that ultimately determines a child's destiny all the time? And I want to ask, what will the Council of State do to ensure that child protection follows the decisions of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1462	Nor can I go into individual matters, nor do I have a wish from this speaker to comment on what child protection, lawyers, mother or others have said in this matter. That won't be right by me. It is serious when I say that I want to change the guidelines that apply to this by looking for foster homes in the immediate family. But that doesn't mean that the child is going to be placed there in any context. There may be situations where the immediate family may not want to be suitable, or there may be different reasons for this. More than that, I can unfortunately not come to give an answer today. Of course, with regard to the last part of the question, I will ensure that once we have changed the guidelines, these will be made known to child protection – also through training, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1472	I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘Croked vocational school is the country’s only nationwide adult vocational school. The government covers operating expenses according to Section 26-2 of the Private School Act. Grants are also granted to boarding schools. Due to increased personnel costs in education and health, the school is in deficit both in 2002 and 2003 because the budget is too low again for other operational expenditure. What will the Council of State do to ensure real full funding for this school that carries out an important societal task?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1481	Hooked vocational school in Hordaland is owned by the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease and pursues professional rehabilitation for adults. The school offers a combination of training, training,recruitment assistance, medical maintenance and housing. The student group consists of adults with, among others: back problems, cardiovascular diseases, mental illness and drug problems. Today, the operation of Hookide is financed entirely by grants from the Ministry of Education and Research. For the 2002–2003 school year, the total grant from the Ministry is approximately 48 million. kr. This amounts to DKK 342 000 per student above. Hookide estimated that its operations would be in deficit in 2003 and has therefore sought additional funding from the Ministry. In the case of schooling, Hookide receives funding according to the same grant rule as ten other private schools for disabled people. These schools receive grants at two different rates — depending on the student base. Such a defined grant base, based on the needs of the pupils' resources, was introduced from 1995 onwards. The rates are price- and pay-adjusted, and these are among other things. these rates underpinning the 2003 State Budget. The model for the allocation of resources to private schools is based on the provision of a grant to schools per pupil, but the total amount of resources must be considered as available to the school's financial framework. The system of allocation of resources to private schools requires schools to adapt their expenditure to income. Special treatment for individual schools in the form that the ministry allocates additional resources leads to a precedent where more and more schools will apply for additional resources. The Ministry of Education and Research does not have budgetary resources for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1492	I thank you for your answer. In general, the system can be as good as it will be, but if the end result for both this school and other schools is that they are actually left with a sub-funding that threatens the offer, there might be reason to look at the system itself. In this case, then, there have been high wage and pension costs related to the staff who are to make the best offer – high costs because the category of personnel causes more than 80 pst. of the total school budget in 2003 goes to wages and salaries, thus undermining the other operating costs associated with the total offer, and thus deficits for the school. The question then is: does the Council of State mean that the school should either reduce the offer, that the students themselves should pay the difference, or does the Council of State think that it is the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease to cover the country's bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1499	As I said, the school has been allocated resources under the rules, legislation and grant rates adopted in previous years, and also in relation to the state budget for the current year. Then it's my opinion that the expenses the school has need to be adapted to the revenue that it has collected. With regard to the current situation, however, I am aware that it is difficult. I can inform you that we have had meetings with, among others. The Ministry of Labour and Administration and the Ministry of Social Affairs because the school carries out activities which can also be said to fall within the responsibility of these departments. I would like to assess whether there is a basis for continuing these discussions, but I would like to stress that I believe the possibility is small, because these departments also do not have grant schemes or other schemes that could include Hookide. But as far as the system itself is concerned, I want to draw attention to new legislative proposals on independent schools, where we put up another system that might meet some of the weaknesses the Blackevik representative pointed out here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1508	I hope so on behalf of the school. But as far as existing legislation is concerned, I understand that we are still facing an example of using it rather rigidly. I understand that counting away students who either stop for health reasons or because of transition to work. Both are special tasks for this school. It has students like it's going to try to get back through rehabilitation, who may not be able to do it, but who are within the school for a short period of time and then leave it. They receive both training and health services when they are in prison, but they are not counted when the basis for the grant is calculated. And similarly, students at the school who are in a short time and then go to work, which is the main purpose of the school, are counted away from the actual allocation basis. Will the Council of State take a closer look at both the calculation and the counting basis, in order to ensure the necessary level of stability and predictability for the school?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1515	In view of the current situation, we have been quite thorough in this matter because it has been addressed to the department, and we believe that we follow the legislation. But there is no concealment that the current system causes weaknesses. I dare not comment on the weaknesses of the representative Sortevik now mentioned, but there are other weaknesses, such as that the subsidy per. students are likely to meet the actual needs of the student in very few cases. It is not calculated on the basis of similar expenditure in public schools. We know nothing about the effectiveness of resource use, and these systems discriminate against other public and private schools that also provide special education. The scheme is also not adapted to an assessment of the individual student, i.e. an individual assessment. These weaknesses are present. As I said, there is now a proposal in the Storting, which means that there will be a new system, which hopefully gets better for these schools, and which has not integrated itself into all these inequalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1523	This question, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Education and Research, will be raised by the representative of Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1526	‘The General Secretariat of the State Special Educational Support System has been located in Molde since 1992. More and Romesdal County Municipality and the Municipality of Molde have made suggestions that a larger part of the state education administration should be located in Molde. Since it is working on the deployment of state administration to District Norway, I expect that Statped, which is in Molde, will remain. May the Council propose a further relocation of e.g.: parts of the Learning Center of Molde with Statped core?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1533	In the 2003 budget proposal, it was announced that the Ministry will assess the division of tasks within the State Education Administration, taking into account, inter alia, the following: the organisational review of the Learning Centre and the consultation opinions on the Quality Committee’s proposal for a national quality assessment system. This work is now in progress in the department and is not completed. The final evaluations will be presented in the revised national budget. In this regard, I consider, inter alia: the organisational location of the central management of the State Special Educational Support System, the Secretariat, currently located not only in Molde but also in Hamar.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1540	I record that the Council of State will give no answer as to whether an assessor assesses the environment in Molde that continues to create lives. I am aware that an organisation of the State Education Administration is intended to be grouped together in one body, and there may be good reasons for this. A school structure with more freedom and organisation, perhaps also within training, I understand that requires, among other things. enhanced supervision, quality assurance, etc., and perhaps also delegation of management tasks. My follow-up question will then be: will it not be natural for an organisation to be renewed, to bet on the good environments already built up, for example. in Molde, with regard to the management systems set up for these centres of expertise around the country? I would find it strange if one in this spirit of decentralization were to think of drawing it into Oslo, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1547	My point is that we are doing what we have announced in the budget proposal, namely to work on, then to come back with, more specifically in the revised national budget, the question of an organisation and division of tasks in the government education administration. The localisation issue has not been at all a topic and has not been mentioned. However, I will not fail to mention that more municipalities – to my great surprise – than Molde has reported its interest in this matter. This applies, inter alia, to: Hamar, Trondheim and Notodden. But I maintain that today it is far too early to say anything about any future localization issues regarding the government education administration. What we are currently working on is the very organisation of the State Education Administration. I will come back to those questions in the revised national budget. I personally have not made a final decision on the organisation issues either, but of course I and the Government will do so before we get to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1552	I strongly support the Government in the demanding work of getting into a decentralised business related to already existing activity, for example. in the capital. It is not a simple political matter. But I guess if you're going to outsource business, you're going to have to rely on good, existing environments of competence where you're going to start a new business or strengthen your existing organization. I believe that there is scope in Molde to continue to have the secretariat of the board of directors lying there, plus perhaps to strengthen the unit with other tasks in the special field of education and other fields, such as: the supervisory activities, which must be quite significant in a system of greater freedom. There are also ICT issues related to this, and maybe the college secretariat, to mention something. If a person wants a central and heavy unit, it must also be important to rely on a system that is built up and works well and that has competence in its vicinity, for example. related to the surrounding colleges. Will the Council not focus on such facts?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1557	The question is a little double-bottomed, because as I can hear the representative, he is concerned that we should not move what works well in Molde, but we would like to move other things to Molde. My point is that there is no move question to consider at the moment. What is to be assessed is the organisation of the government education administration itself, and although there are other issues relating to the relocation of state activities, this does not mean that all other state activities should also be relocated. What I currently have to assess is the organisation of the State Education Administration, and I'm going to present my and the Government's assessment of it in the revised national budget. If in the future there will be any localization questions, we'll have to take them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1565	This question, from Rita Tveiten's representative to the Minister for Fisheries, will be raised by the representative Leif Lund.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1568	‘The fishing industry’s centre of competence, Finko, has worked throughout the fishing industry in the field of recruitment and competence building. Now Finko is under construction. This happens at a time when Norwegian fishing industry is down in a wave valley and is in need of all the help it can get. Who does the Council of State have to fill the void after Finko, and does the Ministry have any responsibility in this field?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1575	The Ministry has contributed nearly 200 million since 1991. to work on competence and recruitment, channelled through the Women's Committee of the Fisheries Industry and the Joint Board of Competences of the Fisheries Industry. On 1 January 2000, these bodies were merged into the Fisheries Competence Centre – Finko. In the budget agreement last autumn, the bulk of the population decided to cut transfers to Finko. Finco and its predecessors have done a very important job for the fisheries and aquaculture industry in relation to recruitment, competence and equality over these years. With regard to recruitment and women-settled action in the marine sector, I believe that the time has now come to incorporate these into the general measures implemented by the Government in these areas, and so has been done. I also believe that the industry should increasingly take responsibility for making itself attractive and appearing as interesting to the labour force of both sexes now, and for future generations. The situation of the last harvest budgetary conciliation clearly represented a challenge for Finko. About 2.6 million. SEK of Finkos' allocation in 2002 has been transferred to 2003 to find a smooth transitional arrangement. In addition, the Ministry of Fisheries has agreed to spend 1.5 million. kr over the fishing agreement, at the invitation of the Norwegian Fisheries Team. These funds will cover commitments entered into such as wages, rents, telephone charges and other agreements entered into by the Finko Secretariat. In addition, the means allow for further operation to a certain extent during a transitional period in 2003. I am pleased that the industry's bodies are now taking initiatives to continue the work on building skills towards the different branches of industry in the way they see it as strategically correct. There has been an attitude that I have also announced earlier, as a big-time representative and in my time as a state council. I am also aware that the Finko Board has been in contact with various agencies to receive financial support, and that more organisational steps have been taken to continue the operation. For the Ministry of Fisheries, work on the competence of the fisheries and aquaculture industry will now focus on marine knowledge building, with a focus on R & D, and we have found that the time is ripe to twist the instruments from the 1990s – I showed that we used approximately. 200 million. kr – for channelling through research and development. The challenge will be to promote policies leading to competent candidates in all necessary areas. Under the Government Committee on Marine Valuation, work is under way to assess future challenges in the field of competence in the industry. The results of this work will be presented by the end of 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1593	In its reply, the Council of State states that ‘the industry should increasingly take responsibility for making itself attractive and appear to be interesting to the labour force of both sexes now and for future generations’. Indeed, the fishing industry has been designated as a national bet area and new requirements from the market and development of the whole value chain call for competence in a number of new areas. How does the Council of State view public co-financing with industry in the field of Finko, in order to strengthen the work on empowerment and recruitment in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1600	I hope we agree that Finko has done an important job, but in terms of competence and recruitment, it is a much bigger job than what has been done by Finko alone. That is why – from my point of view, from the Ministry and from the Government’s side – we now want to focus more and more on research and development and, through it, make industry interesting, and that industry itself needs to take a greater responsibility for making itself interesting. I understand that the industry is also doing so when it now obviously wants to continue Finko on a different scale and with a different device. But we've spent more than 200 million in the 1990s. kr. It is time to assess – and that is what has now been done – whether the funds can be used more effectively to promote skills, equality, knowledge and recruitment. That work has been done through the budget decision, and I do not think it is relevant that we should reverse it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1605	The council actually mentions two times in its posts these 200 million. kr that has been used for this project. But they have been used in accordance with the guidelines drawn up by the Ministry of Fisheries, and it is not money that has been wasted. Finko has had a national responsibility for educational material for the school and a coordination role for the 17 training offices in the fishing industry. Offices are owned by 660 enterprises along the coast. The industry has been co-financed for the projects that have been run. How does the Council of State view the use of experience and results from this work over the past 12 years to avoid doing the same things again? I hope this government committee for marine value creation does not do things that have been done before, again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1610	I just want to make it clear that I think the 200 million. have been used for useful efforts for recruitment and competence. So there can be no doubt, as it is done, that they have clearly been used in line with what has been the guidelines. But, as the question also refers to, more than 600 enterprises are linked to this. It underlines to me that the industry and individual enterprises must increasingly assume a responsibility to be attractive, just as they do in all other industries, and then we get to spend taxpayers' money on new areas of action. I don't think the solution for the 1990s is necessarily the best for a new decade. Therefore, the Government also wants to invest in research and development both to make industry interesting for future generations and at the same time to develop new products. So it's that recruitment, competence and equality are now much more integrated into the department's overall work than it was before.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1625	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1631	This question, from the representative of Gjermund Hagesetter to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, has been transferred to the Minister for Agriculture who is directing him. The question will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, who is travelling.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1634	I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘Numbers show that in 2002 more than 2000 tonnes of dough were imported into Norway, compared with just over 900 tonnes in 1999. The reason for this explosive increase is that the flour price is more than twice as high in Norway as in the EU and that the customs duties on imported flour are much higher than the customs duties on you and other processed products. These framework conditions have led to a decrease in the number of Norwegian bakers. Does the Council of States consider this to be a desirable development, or should Norwegian bakers have similar framework conditions as competitors in other countries?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1643	Imports of bakery products into Norway from the EU, including doughs, have shown a significant increase in recent years, as the questioner refers to. Imports come first from our neighbouring countries. For bakery products, for a number of other processed agricultural products, a commodity price equalisation system is in place in which the duty rate entered into Norway shall compensate for differences in the price of the raw materials included in the finished products. In the case of bakery products, this means that the rates of duty should compensate for differences in flour prices between Norway and the EU. This system shall ensure a level playing field for the bakers’ enterprises in the EEA territory. Since the rates of duty on bakery products are fixed, the evolution of the flour price in Norway and the rest of the EEA territory will affect the competitiveness of the Norwegian bakery industry in relation to foreign imports. The Norwegian authorities are aware of the increased imports of bakery products in recent years and the importance of the development of flour prices in the EEA territory for the competitiveness of this industry, as is also being asked. The agricultural authorities therefore closely monitor the development of flour prices and thus the competitive situation of this sector. The industry framework conditions will be assessed, inter alia: in the context of the spring agricultural settlement. That is the operational response to the question being asked. On the part of the authorities, we are committed to ensuring the framework conditions for the manufacture in Norway of these products. At the same time, as all other industries, the bakery industry must focus on industrial development with modern production methods and the development of new products. The increase also has something to do with consumers and market demand. This will be a prerequisite for success in an increasingly demanding market. In the context of the questions raised by the representative, Mr Hagesett, I would like to stress the Government's efforts to improve the overall framework conditions for business. The government has placed great emphasis on lower taxes and taxes on business. The government budget presented last autumn, which had the central starting point of contributing to a lower interest rate and a lower dollar rate, has succeeded, and it is clearly in favour of this part of business as well. We are now seeing results in these areas. The agreement with the industrial partners on a moderate salary settlement until spring will also help to ensure the future competitiveness of the Norwegian industry. In this way, the bakery industry is equal to other businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1658	I want to thank you for your answer. I am not completely overconfident that the government sees the seriousness of this situation with a larger and larger flagging of Norwegian dough production and semi-finished products in the bakery industry. It is true that the general framework conditions are also important for this industry, but here we have a trend where the rate of duty on flour is much higher than the rate of duty on semi-finished products which are baking and also dough. This is a development that will continue by reducing your customs duties further from 1 July 2004. The Council of State here points out that action to become competitive must be taken, but does not the Council of State see that this uncertainty and deterioration in competitive conditions will reduce recruitment to the industry and also the desire to invest in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1667	It is true that you were included in the last round of negotiations in Protocol 3 on the removal of industrial elements of the customs duty, and the rate of duty for you is proposed to be reduced by 37 cents. It is – along with the changes in the framework conditions that the questioner addresses and that I touched on in my response – that will be the basis for the assessment made in the context of the agricultural settlement for spring. It will be the first point of measurement as to whether there is a need to put in place instruments to change the framework conditions. But otherwise, some of us experience that foreign bakery products taste, and then it should be a challenge for the industry, the Norwegian industry, to develop products that meet that demand. I hope and expect Norwegian bakers to meet that competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1672	I am still not entirely sure that action will be taken. We've recently had a development that has led to 300 fewer bakers in the last couple of years. Within the industry there is a complete fear of fury, and it would be very unfortunate if one were to get the majority of dough and semi-finished products and even the production of bread and buns abroad. It'll be a very unfortunate situation. Then I will again ask the Council of State: can the Council of State promise that action by the Government will be taken to stop this development by flagging out as we have seen, and that it will facilitate dough production, bread and semi-manufactured products, even in the future in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1677	There are two answers to that. Firstly, the Government is committed to providing a good framework for business to be competitive in the Norwegian market. We will continue to work on that, and there will be actions, both what is in place and what comes from general industrial policy. When it comes to the question of whether I want to guarantee that action will be taken, it might be a little strange if I now concluded with the negotiations that will take place in the agricultural sector and which I have said: the framework conditions for this industry will be assessed in relation to the agricultural sector. I believe that both bakers, staging representatives and the state councils will have to show patience then. It is relatively imminent. There is no doubt that the Minister for Agriculture is aware of this issue, and after this round with the Minister for Fisheries, both the marine and agriculture have been given a strong emphasis on what was raised in the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1686	That was comforting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1700	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1707	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: «Sarpsbrua in Sarpsborg is in a wretched constitution. Parts of the bridge have shifted with cracks of 16-17 cm. A 1997 report shows that it is dangerous to traffic due to cracks and slips. If a truck comes up on the pavement or the bridge, it can fall through. The road system is concerned, and the planning of new bridges requires priority. Will the Council of State contribute additional appropriations to the construction of new bridges?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1716	Plans for the construction of new connections over Sarpsfossen have been justified primarily by capacity constraints and not by the state of existing bridges. However, it is a fact that the bridges are old, and that the connection over time also needs to be renewed for that reason. In recent years, bridges have been subject to regular overhaul by the State Road Service and during the summer, rail-to-road and pavements will be set up. In addition, reinforcement work is planned to be carried out during 2004. Once these works have been completed, the State Road Administration believes that there is no reason for immediate safety concerns. New Sarpsbru is not a priority within allocated planning frameworks for Eastfold for the period 2002–2011. The framework for the next planning period must be returned to the Government in the context of the national transport plan for the period 2006–2015, which is scheduled to be submitted to the Stortinget in early 2004. In this respect, I would like to point out that the Stortinget in the treatment of St.meld. No 31 for 2000-2001 on the division of tasks between State, county and municipality, concluded that the county municipality had a decisive influence on the priorities of the district-allocated framework for national road investment within the leadership defined by the Stortinget and the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1725	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This bridge is approx. 70 years old and too much less traffic. 70 years ago, cars could weigh 5 tons. Today they can weigh ten times as much. Traffic may, in some cases, reach 25 000 vehicles per day. We received a state report in 1997 that clearly describes the state. There are significant cracks and slips in the bridge, and if a truck comes up on the pavement, it can fall through. That is what this report says. Although it is now announced by the Council of State that a handrail can be set up against the roadway and reinforcements, this could not prevent a heavy car from going through in an emergency, and more and more people also say that they believe that the bridge is road dangerous. Does the Council of State, as the supreme authority responsible for the highways in Norway and this bridge mean that the bridge really has an acceptable standard, or should the bridge be closed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1734	It is quite well known that I am concerned about safety, also on the bridges. That's why we're doing regular analysis of the state of e.g. These bridges are talking about here. This has been done by the State Road Administration, and the measures it has now decided to implement are precisely based on the analyses carried out by the State Road Administration. As I said in my reply, it has been found that there are some measures that can be implemented, and after they have been implemented, there is no reason to believe immediately that safety is in danger. It is absolutely essential in all our work that safety be properly ensured – including at this bridge.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1741	I thank the Council of State for the additional response, and the key was ‘immediately’. In a few years these temporary repairs will have little effect on the medium and long term. I know that the Council of State has indicated that if a new bridge is to be built, it should be financed, possibly in the form of a split layer. Now there's a massive local resistance to this. There are no local proposals for solution models if the country does not contribute. So how does the Council of State feel about solving this problem? Do you have to live with this uncertainty and the development of a more and more dangerous bridge, or do you have to close the bridge?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1746	I've just talked about the reinforcements that you've been going to do on the bridge. The reinforcements are going to be done just because you have to make it safer. There are measures that we implement because security needs to be raised, and I trust that the analyses made by the Road Administration are correct. I would also like to stress that I have not taken the initiative to solve toll financing for some individual projects in this country. I haven't done that so far, and I don't intend to do that in the future either. If such initiatives come locally, we'll see about it, but I don't intend to propose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1756	«In a recent report on the framework conditions for the transport of timber and timber by Rørosbanen, Eastern research has highlighted the importance of the railway for the transport of goods. [[01/2003]] However, wood or other forest-industrial products are not transported on track, despite the fact that the volume of this only a few years back was significant. This is a development contrary to what the EU requires and wants. What will the Council of State do to increase the transport of goods, in particular forestry products, at the Rørosbanen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1763	For me, it is a goal to get more freight on the railway. That is why I have focused on the framework conditions for this transport sector. The railway framework will be an important theme of the forthcoming national transport plan 2006-2015, presented in the spring 2004 session. As part of this work, the Ministry of Transport is now taking a closer look at the link between external costs and charges for the various modes of transport. Furthermore, it can be mentioned that CargoNet AS is continuously working to improve the efficiency of operations in order to be competitive in relation to the transport of goods by car. Although the competitiveness of CargoNet is greatest in container cargo and combined transport of large volumes over long distances, the company has established Systemtog, which includes the carriage of timber as its own bet area. The trajectory is of great importance for the transport of timber and tiles. CargoNet cargoes around 700,000 –800 000 cubic metres and 150,000–200,000 cubic pieces per. years. Much of this transport goes on the Rørosbahn, as those who sell timber and chips stick along this section of the track. CargoNet has new wagons for timber and tile transport to order, and the company is negotiating with customers regarding contractual conditions before final ordering is decided. I can also mention that as of 15 March this year, the Norwegian rail network is open to Norwegian licensed railway undertakings wishing to operate domestic freight services. This goes beyond what the EU requires, as it only opens up competition on international freight transport on the so-called TERFN network, the Trans European Rail Freight Network. Increased competition in the transport of goods on the rail network in Norway is an important instrument both to strengthen rail as a means of transport through increased efficiency and to improve the utilisation of available capacity on today’s rail network.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1772	I will first be allowed to give honor to the Council of State for her starting point. There, I think, we fully agree on the importance not only for the Rørosbanen and the Solørbanen, but also for other sections of the track in relation to the forest in Norway. It is often forgotten when discussing the train. We know that if we just moved the amount of timber that is currently going on the Røros track, onto the roads in Hedmark and inland, it would mean between 40,000 and 60,000 carloads on already traffic-laden roads. This means high traffic loads and also concerns road safety. What is paradoxical is that we still haven't been able to ensure that forest industry products are transported by train. There, developments have gone in the wrong direction for us who want to take care of the Røros Railway, and I would also assume that for a Left State Council it is sad to see that you do not succeed with it. That's where the EU comes in and will make future demands for us. What can the Council of State do today specifically to ensure that developments will reverse?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1779	It is absolutely right that it is important when we have the infrastructure lying there, that we are able to use it efficiently, not least on the freight transport side. This has several reasons, not least environmental considerations and safety considerations on the roads that will be the option. The framework conditions we impose on this area are important. Let me give you one example. A while ago, the question was whether we should make it lawful to drive with 25 m long car trains on Norwegian roads. We decided not to do that. The opposite would have been a decision which would have had an impact on the transport of timber and would have been useful to those who wanted to have timber transport by road in front of the railway. The fact that we went in and decided it would make it more convenient to drive timber on trains rather than on the road. And as I mentioned in my answer: CargoNet is working on this area, because they also see that there is a potential here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1786	I am afraid that it will be too late if you push this work into the future transport plan, and that you actually have to take action now, because over the last few years we have seen a development where you have practically wiped out the forest industry products on trains, and that even CargoNet has not been able to achieve the goal that we politicians might want for forest industry products. So the question is whether the government's ability to see any possibility that we can get more forest industry products, not just timbers and chips, onto the train, before we start to sit down with a rather difficult plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1791	We have already, as I mentioned, taken action in relation to this. We have opened up competition in the area of freight, which allows transport services other than CargoNet to be carried out on this railway infrastructure that we have. That's something we've already opened up to. I mentioned this with long car combinations that we have already made a decision on, and not least that CargoNet is busy trying to find further solutions here. That means there's a lot going on in this area, to which of course I want to stimulate as much as I can. Now, of course, I cannot dictate to everyone who works in the industry that they should choose to drive trains rather than drive cars on the road, but I will do what is possible for me, in order to facilitate it. I mean we're on your way now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1805	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘«Fail home for a 50-note note» is a traffic security service aimed at young people in Sogn and Fjordane. One now actively goes out and offers the Russian to search for the Try Home model, even if the Russian event falls outside the regular times and places of the established arrangement. One would, upon request, be able to receive supplements for the rent of a bus to/from a Russian hit in the county. Will the Council of State take initiatives against road offices and other actors in order to ensure that the Russian Federation in the rest of the country can have a corresponding supply?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1814	Everyone, first of all, I really want to pay tribute to the commitment you have in Sogn and Fjordane to road safety. That should be a good example for many other states. «Fail home for a 50-note note» in Sogn and Fjordane is a road safety measure undertaken by and financed by the county municipality. The action is a project aimed at young people in the county and aims to provide young people with a safe and collective transport option on their way home from the towns and cities. The state road authority has been involved in initiating and planning the measure. I am in favour of the initiative taken by the County of Sogn and Fjordane. In addition to the fact that the measure could have a safety gain, I believe that it can help to give young people good habits in relation to the use of collective travel equipment. The municipalities of Sogn and Fjordane presented this and other local initiatives in the field of road safety to the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate-General for Road Transport at a separate meeting on 7 May 2002. It was then agreed that the Directorate of Roads should assume responsibilities and costs by evaluating the action. Based on the results of this evaluation, I will, in consultation with the Directorate of Roads, consider how we can contribute to the follow-up to the action on a larger scale. Of course, if other counties or municipalities will introduce the offer on their own initiative before this evaluation has been carried out, there is nothing wrong with it. And I'm very positive about it. With last year's tragic Russian car accidents in mind, I have seen it as very important to strengthen measures that can prevent such events from repeating themselves. This year, a number of new measures will be put in place to prevent serious accidents, including:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t Free control of Russian cars at all public roadside roadside roadside roadside open roadside control stations for the control of Russian cars voluntary blockage system for the safety approval of Russian cars improves information on what should be done and what is permitted for the refurbishment and accommodation of vehicles frequent roadside checks in Russian Age hearing proposals on requirements for safety belts in all seats of cars converted to Russian cars The effectiveness of these measures requires cooperation between schools and relevant departments such as the police and the State Road Service. Of course, such cooperation must involve the trust of the Russians and the individual Russians. I will take the initiative to cooperate closely with the school authorities on this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1846	I thank the Council of State for your answer. That was a good answer, and I take the praise to Sogn and Fjordne for what they have done. Politicians in Sogn and Fjordane have prioritised this for several years. They are well aware of the professional cooperation that a person has with the road office, which is the basis for a person to work with it. The reason I'm taking up the question in Question Time is that after the tragic Russian accident last year, the Minister for Trade had been in contact with student organisations, with the Russians, with the State Road Administration and with Safer Traffic, where a follow-up was in progress. It was therefore natural to ask questions now as it approaches spring, about what one has done. I am very satisfied with the measures that the Council of State is putting forward, perhaps with the exception of the fact that I do not have any measures to prevent young people from getting involved in cars. One thing is the Russian cars themselves, but there are also a lot of private cars being filled up. Will the State Council continue to work on providing young people with an alternative to sitting in private cars?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1853	There's no doubt that information means a lot. Youth is still new. So those who are Russian this year are not the ones who are Russian next year. That's how it's going to be all the time. So it's awfully important that we're active on the information page. Therefore, we suggest that when we first introduce a concrete activity in relation to both Russian cars and Russians and young people affected here, the state road system will continue to do so. We also see that some schools are apprehensive about this. Some see the point that a high school student has a unique chance of reaching 16- to 19-year-olds. The exposure in the various schools varies considerably. What I want is that there should be a great commitment everywhere. Examples of highschools have made a phenomenal effort, including: Valdre's continuing school, where you've got a youth engagement. That's what we need, as much as we need orders and rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1858	I thank you again for your answer. What is one of the problems of the politicians in Sogn and Fjordane is, of course, prioritizing funds for this kind of bet, but one gets quite a lot out of very small funds. A few days ago, we received this paper in the post entitled ‘Peddling and Youth — Government’s Goals and Response Areas in the 2003 State Budget’. Unfortunately, there is very little investment in youth in particular related to traffic security. There is a small page about Safe Traffic and this with a safe school road, and it is very good. But I should like the Council of State in next year's corresponding announcement from the Government to include this both in the budget for the next year and in the leadership that she has now told us about here in the staging room, so that the road offices follow it up and local and regional politicians also get a signal from the Government that this is a very important investment in relation to our youth. The government writes that ‘central authorities have important tasks as drivers’ – and it’s the driving role that I was initially out there after the Minister for Transport appears to be very clear today, and hopes that she will follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1867	I think there is a fairly large consensus between us that commitment to road safety is important, including among young people, both because youth is a vulnerable group in relation to accident statistics and because it will contribute to creating attitudes for the rest of a long life. That's why this is important. It is now possible for me to put leadership in how, for example. This type of problem has to be addressed by the state road authority. We're adding those leaders now, and we're going to continue that. Then, of course, we want a great commitment from both the school and county sides. There I like to – and I have done it in many ways – give strong signals about what I want. Then it's up to the county council how to choose to prioritize both funds and efforts otherwise. Finally, I will once again pay great tribute to Sogn and Fjordane for the efforts they have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1879	I have the following questions for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: «Norway currently has 434 municipalities. Many are very small in population. In Denmark, Minister of the Interior Lars Løkke Rasmussen spoke about reducing the number of Danish municipalities from 271 to 40-50. Hedmark Right recently proposed to reduce the number of municipalities in Hedmark from 22 to 4 to 6 large municipalities. Many suggest that this question will become more and more topical in the future. Will the Council of State explain its view of today’s Norwegian municipal structure and what the Government is doing to stimulate further investigations into municipal associations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1888	I believe that the Norwegian municipal structure is not appropriate in relation to the tasks and responsibilities of the municipalities and should continue to have as producers of important welfare services. For some municipalities, especially small ones, there may be an imbalance between the tasks they will perform and the resources – economic, organisational and not least personnel – they have available. In particular, the availability of skilled labour could become a critical factor for many municipalities in the years to come. Poor delivery capacity in key welfare areas will over time lead to reduced legitimacy and trust in the municipalities as well as to a lower interest in participation in the democratic arenas. The size decided in 1995 that all municipal associations should be voluntary. This is firm. However, this does not exempt local politicians from the responsibility for discussing possible instruments to meet the needs of the future. It is important not to have emotional arguments alone. At the bottom, therefore, we believe that there should be investigations that can as far as possible make the consequences of the different elections visible, and thus serve as a basis for decision-making for the debates that local politicians around the country are obliged to take. In order to receive support for investigations into municipal associations, we require inter alia: that the investigation is presented to the population and that public hearings are conducted. I am aware that many municipalities are in an economic situation that can easily lead to less emphasis being placed on the tasks after an investigation than would be desirable. That is why, from 2003, we have introduced two new measures to improve this part of the process: 1st@item: inlistbox Each municipality that has participated in the investigation will be able to receive, upon request, support of up to DKK 100000 for information and public hearing.2. It also opens up areas with municipalities that have a specific need for further assistance for process guidance to do so. A research-based review of the criteria for local government classification has also been launched which was used by the Christiansen Committee. Updated criteria for what characterises a good municipality classification will be useful for municipalities that now and in the future want to explore associations. This review will be completed during the summer of 2003. As long as we've put the emphasis on volunteering, and the Storting has taken that decision, the Government will certainly follow that up. But at the same time, volunteering is a local obligation to address the issue. It is not a discharge, but a clear responsibilities at the local level. As a municipal minister, I use most of the occasions to stress that the decision in 1995 did not imply that municipal associations were generally voted down in Stortinget, but that there was actually a transfer of responsibility from Stortinget to the municipalities in choosing what the structure would be like in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1908	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I find interesting and positive, and so far in line with what I had expected from the Council of State. I would like to remind you that Norway has more municipalities today than in 1837 when the Presidency Act was introduced. Then we had 392 municipalities. It is clear that with today’s much more effective means of communication, it may seem strange that more municipalities are needed in Norway today than 166 years ago. Some have been done in recent years to facilitate and stimulate community mergers. We have changed the division law, and Stortinget has decided significantly better financial conditions for municipalities that will merge. However, the pace of association is, to put it mildly, labert. Does the Council of State believe that the current economic conditions in terms of aggregation, and perhaps other legislation, are good enough, since so few municipalities eventually merge?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1919	I would like to remind you that in the period between 1837 and today we have been in over 700 municipalities in Norway. After 1837, it was a large municipal split. One went from the Danish pastoral debt pattern to another municipal structure. I agree with the questioner that there would be a need for a drastic reduction in the number of municipalities in Norway, but I am also very concerned that when we try to get fewer municipalities, voluntary processes are the best way to do it. Voluntary processes create good conditions for aggregation. Some of the examples we've seen related to coercion show that it's not always the best solutions that are chosen when it happens under coercion. We also know that coercive mergers elsewhere than in the municipal structure often cause these kinds of problems. I want to go. Do not be dissatisfied with the number of municipalities today. There are 40 municipalities now investigating and planning referendums. There are many more who report all the time, either for aggregation or for starting close inter-municipal cooperation. But when this ageing period is over, we should take a summary and assess the results that have come out of it, and take a wide-ranging debate on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1928	I thank you once again for your answer. Of course, we agree that voluntary action should be taken in the case of associations of municipalities. I just want to remind you that in 1998, it was well, investigated 19 municipalities in six areas of aggregation, and it only ended up with one merger, namely Re. At present, as the Council of State mentions, there are a good number of municipalities, approx. 40, where possible association was investigated. And then we'll see how many of them end up with aggregation. I hope that the result will not be as bad as it was the previous time. I could ask if the Council of State is open to work out a solution in which municipalities that merge, may get a certain degree of e.g. debt restructuring, or whether she would reject such a thought immediately? And let me ask you another question, if I perceive the Council of States correctly: will the Council of State assume that, for example. do municipalities with financial problems first have to investigate a merger before it is relevant to additional financial assistance from the State?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1939	First of all, we know that at least we're going as far as the last time, since we've had the first positive vote on the municipal merger in the beer and the wind farm. I think that the mood has changed considerably in relation to these questions locally, that you see the need for it. Not least the question of skilled labour has gradually become acceptable in many municipalities. With regard to the question of possible debt cancellation or other instruments, we have planned to return to it in the context of the municipal economic proposition. I don't think indebtedness is necessarily an instrument, but it may be that more carrots are to be established, some because there are some infrastructure investments that may need to be made directly linked to a community, not that we should build bridges over the Ministry of Local Affairs' budget, but that we, for example, should. may propose additional financing, or investment in technological infrastructure, in order to enable municipalities to work well together later. I will come back to Stortinget with that, and then maybe we can have a wide debate on whether more carrots are going to be involved in community mergers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1946	The Minister of Agriculture was traveling, I registered, so there are several government councils that have commented on his subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1960	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1966	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The requirements for permanent stocks of hazardous waste in Norway are strict. The northern section of the Lang Island was selected as such after a long process, where, among other things: the emphasis was placed on the tightness of the fracture. Norwegian Waste Management, NOAH, has now applied for the use of the south break on the island of Lang Island for the storage of hazardous waste. The south break is not close, and there is still good capacity to store hazardous waste in the north break. Does the Council of State consider that there is now a need to extend the capacity for the storage and treatment of hazardous waste in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1975	I agree with the representative Sørensen that the requirements for the final treatment of hazardous waste are strict. It is my intention that they remain strict, and of course it is not appropriate to weaken the requirements that ensure the environmentally sound treatment of hazardous waste. State pollution control, SFT, is now examining an application from NOAH Holding AS, NOAH, for the modification and extension of the current authorisation for the treatment and landfill of hazardous waste on the island of Lang Island. This type of case is subject to detailed proceedings. Among other things, comprehensive environmental impact assessments are being prepared on which all interested parties can comment. The procedure shall ensure that all material aspects have been clarified and provide the best possible basis for decision-making. Necessary environmental requirements will be laid down in the emissions permit, including requirements to prevent leaching of pollution from the landfill. The Ministry of the Environment is the Board of Appeal for decisions taken by the SFT. Therefore, an amendment to the authorisation of the NOAH in Langøya could be subject to appeal proceedings in the Ministry at a later stage. I therefore do not think it appropriate at this stage to give a detailed assessment of this specific case. The annual figure is approx. 630000 tonnes of hazardous waste in Norway. This amount may vary slightly from year to year, for example: as a result of variations in activities in business and in private consumption. Furthermore, the amount could increase as a result of the definition of several waste types as hazardous waste. I adopted a change to the waste legislation before the end of the year that would result in such an extension of the list of hazardous waste types. At the same time, statistics show that more than 50000 tonnes of hazardous waste are at risk. It's a high priority task to reduce this, and I have, among other things, asked the SFT to intensify control and oversight work in order to increase the level of collection. 5 000 enterprises have received letters to this effect, and hundreds of checks are also carried out during these days. In addition, extensive national clean-up work in contaminated sediments and contaminated land could result in large amounts of contaminated mass that need to be treated properly. All of this obviously requires good treatment solutions with sufficient capacity in the short and long term. Much of the polluting masses are treated on site, and much of the waste can go to different types of recovery, both material and energy recovery. Nevertheless, some have to go to final treatment in environmentally appropriate landfills. It is a national target that there should be sufficient capacity for such final treatment in Norway. The Langøya site will be fully central to the future final treatment of inorganic hazardous waste and contaminated mass. If the amount of hazardous waste and contaminated mass generated increases, the life span of the landfill will be reduced, while it could increase if new treatment and recycling solutions are developed. Future exports and imports of hazardous waste will also have an impact on developments. Any increase in capacity in Lang Island will initially help to ensure sufficient national treatment capacity in the longer term. Like the representative Sørensen, I am concerned that the necessary environmental requirements are being imposed on the plant.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1986	I thank you for your answer and for your review. But I think the Council of State jumps over the main question: Do we need to increase this capacity now? It is also the case that it is discussed whether or not to sell the company NOAH. And isn't it that when you're going to set the value of a company whose purpose is, among other things, is the storage of hazardous waste, will the remaining storage space for hazardous waste be an essential part of the valuation of that company? Is there any consideration of the value of NOAH, or is there any consideration that we need more storage space for hazardous waste that is the reason why we want to use the less suitable acid fraction also for storing the most hazardous waste?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e1995	As I explained in my answer, this is how we want to minimize what is going to be final treatment, that is. hazardous waste that has to be landfilled. But some hazardous waste actually has to be landfilled, and then I'm very concerned that it's being landfilled in a proper way. I also underlined in my reply that the intention is that there should be strict environmental requirements and that, of course, it is not appropriate to weaken the requirements that ensure the environmentally sound treatment of waste. In doing so, I also answered the question relating to the requirements to be imposed on landfills to accept hazardous waste, in relation to the risk of release. That's point one. Point 2: In connection with the clean-up operations we are now doing in the sediments, a number of pollutants will have to be landfilled, possibly on, for example. Long Island. This is a necessary cleanup. I have noticed that many of those who are most interested in the environment also want some of this to be deposited and not just covered up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e2004	To the last point: I fully agree. That's also one of the motivations of my question. The south break in Lang Island has been only a potential landfill site for contaminated sediments which do not require as strict restrictions as the most hazardous waste. We have to cast that in plaster before we deposit it. The company now applies for Lang Island to have the most hazardous waste disposed of. And then it will be better for this company to focus on hazardous waste in the first place. I think there's a reason to ask the Council of State if it couldn't be right that we'd rather bet on the polluting mass there than bet on the most dangerous waste. Then I'll have to ask you an additional question. In the newspapers in Westfold, it has been written over the past week that Statoil wants to landfill low-radioactive waste in the Northern Break on Lang Island. It would be a retreat if that were to happen, because then they had a mixture of chemical waste and radioactive waste. There is one way to store what almost no other country does. Can the Council of State assure that this will not happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e2011	There were many questions to be answered within 1 minute. But to take the last question, about the low-radioactive waste, which can also be called scale: In the case of the Lang Island, there is no permission to receive and treat radioactive waste. And based on the information I have, there are no concrete plans to use Lang Island for this purpose. So the question of the storage of hazardous waste. The main problem is that 50 000 tonnes of hazardous waste are not treated properly. Part of it simply goes into the drain and it is deposited in places where it is not to be deposited. The main challenge now is to minimise the use of hazardous waste. And then you have to treat it properly. If this hazardous waste is to be finalized, the Lang Island is a very good place to store it. In order to extend the storage capacity at this site, the site must also comply with the requirements already imposed in relation to the landfill of hazardous waste.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e2020	So we go to question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e2027	This question is originally addressed to the Minister of Oil and Energy, but will be answered by the Minister of Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e2030	I want to ask you the following questions: «According to the newspaper Politiken 27 February d.o.b. the Danish climate plan may result in a wholesale price increase in the Nordic power market of 5-6 øre/kWh. Danish power generators will have to cover CO2 emissions from the purchase of European CO2 allowances. No extra wind is added due to: high costs. How does the Council expect the Danish climate action to affect Norwegian security of supply and electricity prices for Norwegian consumers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e2039	The Danish government presented its climate strategy at the end of February. The main message is that Denmark should fulfil its international obligations in the most cost-effective way possible. The Danish Government proposes an extensive use of market-based mechanisms, including the implementation of the EU ETS Directive and the use of project-based mechanisms under the Kyoto Protocol. Danish energy production is largely based on fossil energy sources. Energy production therefore accounts for a large proportion of Danish greenhouse gas emissions. It has a significantly different emission structure than what we have in Norway, how much of the energy production comes from renewable energy, read: hydropower. When the EU ETS Directive is implemented in Denmark, Danish electricity producers will be subject to quota obligations. According to the proposal for a directive, they will be allocated a certain number of allowances each year. To the extent that the emissions exceed the allowances allocated, power producers must purchase allowances on the market. There's nothing dramatic new about this. As early as 1999, the Danish Parliament decided that electricity producers in Denmark should be allocated annual CO2 allowances for the period 2000-2003. If increased power generation has led to emissions beyond the allocated allowances, a charge has been levied to the country corresponding to 40 DKK/tonne of CO2. The scheme has been tightened up for each year, but in practice the quota system operates around such a way that Danish power generation for export is subject to charging. The scheme has not prevented Denmark from increasing its power generation once hydropower production has been reduced this winter. Based on this experience, I cannot see that the Danish Climate Change Plan and the ETS Directive will weaken security of supply. It would be a matter of preliminary speculation to say something about the impact of the ETS on the price of the Nordic power market. Important decisions that affect the tightness of the allowance system and hence the prices of the allowances have not yet been taken. Each country must indicate by the end of March 2004 how many allowances it will allocate in total for the 2005-2007 period and how they intend to allocate them. The Commission is working on guidelines for the allocation of allowances by countries to activities covered by the ETS Directive. The Commission also intends to submit a proposal on how to link the ETS to the CDM and Joint Implementation, JI, Clean Development Mechanism under the Kyoto Protocol in April/May of this year. Access to the project-based mechanisms could be important for Danish power producers. The Danish government proposes that the purchase of climate allowances/credit abroad should be an important part of the fulfilment of Denmark’s climate obligation. With regard to electricity prices in the coming years, developments in supply and demand in the Nordic and European energy markets will be of great importance. In this context, for example: the further design of the European greenhouse gas emission allowance system is a central element.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e2052	I thank the Council of State for the answer. A huge power deficit in both Norway and Sweden now leads to Danish coal-fired power plants running high. This will, of course, exacerbate the Danish climate accounts. High quota prices and Danish policy environmental objectives are likely to lead to even higher prices for Danish coal power stations in the future before they will increase production to cover the Norwegian-Swedish deficit. Unfortunately, lack of political action has led to very few concrete plans for increased power generation in Norway today. Does not the Council of State suspect that Norwegian electricity consumers are at risk of even higher electricity prices in view of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e2061	The representative Vaksdal now claims that the Danish government’s climate strategy could increase wholesale prices by between 5 and 6 øre per. kWh. The climate strategy assumes an increase in the wholesale price of electricity. This is primarily due to the fact that they expect the long-term price of the Nordic electricity market to be determined by the costs of new generation capacity. They also assume that current high prices are due to a temporary situation on the power market, namely dry years, and that there will be a continuous surplus of electricity in the northern European market until 2012. It is such a reasoning that is behind their assumption of an increase from 17 to 18 øre to 24 øre. The Danish authorities have calculated the electricity price of electricity in Europe at different quota prices. If the price would be 50 per cent. tonne, they assume that this will give a price increase of 2 øre per. kWh. Danish coal-fired power stations, on the other hand, will be able to increase their costs by about 5 øre per. kWh and reduced competitiveness compared to producers with other energy sources. Thus, these increased costs cannot be completely passed on to consumers. With an allowance price of NOK 100, they assume that the electricity price could increase by 4 cents. In any case, one has to expect prices to be substantially lower than they were in winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e2068	An estimate of 5-6 øre per. kWh in increased production costs for coal-fired power, to which I referred, is based on an allowance price of NOK 60 per tonne. tonnes of CO2. Without Russian participation in an allowance system, the allowance price may be even higher. At the same time, we know that the Danes are committed to implementing many of their so-called greenhouse gas measures abroad. The Danish environmental organisations are actively working to increase national proportions, which will, of course, push the price up further. Is not the Council of State and the Government concerned about what this, in addition to the lack of growth in production in Norway, will mean for the electricity price of Norwegian consumers?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e2075	There are a lot of assumptions in Mr Vaksdal's question here, including in the statement he refers to in politics, where it says that the big joke is what the quotas are going to cost, and that it is also uncertain what guidelines the EU will put up in the context of the mechanism directive that they are now preparing. With regard to these issues, it is also worth noting that if it is that Russia does not become a part of this, it actually means that the Kyoto agreement is not ratified by enough nations. Then you don't get a valid Kyoto agreement. There are many environmental policy issues raised. We may not have control, nor will we have the necessary mechanisms to do something about the major climate change we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e2082	So we've come to the end of today's Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-19.ana.ud31e2093	There is no record.
