ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e28	The called alternate of the Aust-Agder County, Liv Marit Moland, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e37	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e42	I suggest Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e47	Mr. Øyvind Halleraker has been proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is considered unanimously elected president of today’s meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e71	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Dagfinn HøybrättenState Council Ansgar GabrielsenState Council Torild Skogsholm The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We start with the first main questions, from the representative Øystein Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e90	I have a question for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. Industrial unemployment is shockingly high. From the third quarter of last year to the third quarter of this year, we have lost 21 000 industrial jobs, which is more than the average drop in unemployment. We have to go far back in time to find a corresponding industrial death in Norway. And this happens with the Business Party Right in a central position in the sitting government. Other countries that create industrial workplaces in Europe have, in addition to general framework conditions and lower taxes – which has also been provided by the Bondevik Government – invested in a much more active industrial policy. That makes sense to the Progress Party. We must invest in our natural resources and where we have proved our own excellence. Will the Government now learn from those countries in Europe that have led an active business policy, in order to create more industrial jobs also in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e101	Let me first say that the number of representatives refers to is right. It shows that there is a significant challenge in reducing the number of industrial jobs. And there has been a significant increase in unemployment over the last few years. There is no doubt about this. Opinions have been shared in many countries about what is best to meet this. Some countries have pursued different policies to meet this challenge. What is also indisputable is that, despite the fact that we have had increased unemployment in Norway as well, these countries to which it refers have experienced a significantly higher rate of growth in unemployment. So I don't think the picture is unique as to what it is going to be done nationally to meet these things. What is at least raised above any doubt is that most of the unemployment growth we have received is due to international trends. And then we've had some strange things related to cost growth, to strong crowns and to a high level of taxes and charges. These things have been taken into account by the Government. Over the course of these two years, we have put in place a lot of measures to improve the business environment, and in fact, I think I dare to say that you have to go back far in time to find periods where there have been so fundamental and so radical improvements for our competitive business. And it's mainly competitive business that's had problems. The biggest problem has been in the export industry, and the most important element in improving it has been to correct the high level we have had on the dollar price. To give a little example, Peterson's Moss factory, which is in Hedstrom's own state, lost 50 million. kr in 2002, while Norwegian Forest, a major group, lost DKK 1 billion at a high crown price. Then you see what it's important to do to improve this, the very basic things.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e110	Our prime minister said earlier this year that Norway would be one of the world's most innovative countries. We have now received a plan from the Government, an innovation plan, based on this. I have gone through this plan, but there are only small things, which do not follow the promises of the Prime Minister, and there are no signs of more to the instrument, either there or in the state budget, which can lift Norwegian businesses, and which can remove some of the capital-dried entrepreneurs and industrialists in Norway. So I have to ask the Council of State: what in the state budget or in this plan is going to help realize that Norway can become one of the world's most innovative countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e117	Firstly, it is quite right that the Prime Minister has stressed the need for a far greater total commitment, both in business and in public terms, to increase innovation. It is necessary to meet tomorrow’s challenges in a high-cost country such as Norway. The government is going to attack this along two lines. One is to coordinate on the public side to clear up all the obstacles that exist, whatever the department, to bring about innovation in businesses. There are many ministerial areas of responsibility that will be involved in this, and we will set up a Council of State committee to manage the coordination nationally. The second thing is that we have to contribute to creating a culture of increased innovation. I was in Oslo yesterday at a collection of 750 entrepreneurs, where I got good insights into these things. There is no doubt that in this country we have at least not had a culture enough to do anything about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e124	There will be four follow-up questions – first Olav Akselsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e127	I will first boast the Minister of Industry that he says today that this is a serious problem. It's actually a big step forward, because when others have shown concern for the increasing unemployment, the government's main response is to minimize these problems and underestimate them. One has also not taken the necessary measures to ensure that something is done. One of the main areas of activity of this government when it comes to industrial policy is our tax haven, and of course it's nice for those who get it. The philosophy has been that these money would then go back to business. One of the strongest feedbacks we have on the business committee is that today there is a lack of capital. So my question is, where has it become of all these taxpayers' money? In any case, it is not the business community that says they are at their disposal, especially in those parts of the country that have been cut off in SND.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e136	Now I don't know who Olav Aksensen hits, but I have the impression that we hit many of the same people. My feedback is the fact that, for example, in the representative Akselsen's own home state, we have given 800 million. in tax reductions for the enterprises of the Lord 2003. At the same time, it's just to see in the government budget that there's a few million dollars less to the distribution from SND. But what's undeniably, at least is that the business community in Hordaland, for example, has several hundred million dollars more available for further development, bud shooting, catching up on innovation processes. You have to be able to sum up the content of all of the pockets you have, and you've got 10 million. kr less in one pocket and 800 million. kr more in the other, you stand better rusted. I can't imagine the head of the nutrition committee thinking that the business community in Hordaland would have been better equipped if it had paid 800 million in addition. kr more in taxes and taxes this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e142	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e145	The Minister of Economic Affairs recently said in an interview with the Evening Post that there is not just a lack of foreign investment in Norway, but Norwegian owners invest too little in jobs and in business. This shows that the problem that Olav Akselsen has just pointed out is real. And then there is reason to ask again whether the Minister of Industry sees that a more targeted policy should be pursued to replace the business-neutral policy that this government has pursued, where efforts have been made in areas where we are good from before, and where we have all the opportunities to become best in the world, use Norwegian capital strength to help private shareholders also enter and invest in these industries. Is it not a policy that the Government would see as more useful to strengthen the future-oriented economy? Low interest rates and exchange rates are important, but they do not represent everything necessary to strengthen business.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e150	That's right, what Enoch finally said, it doesn't represent everything that's needed to strengthen Norwegian business. I can only remember on the move one document that has come to Stortinget, where business neutrality has been mentioned at all. It was a document from a government where Enoch himself was a member. We have not argued in any document to abolish such a socio-economic principle to all other measures at all. Our policies and policies and those of enlargement and the policies of the previous government are, in effect, a misguided attempt to compensate for some of the disadvantages of individual industries, individual regions have. It's just reading from A to Å. That's the way it is. We haven't really made any significant changes there. But we have also taken into account the fundamental and fundamental link between the interest rate level, the exchange rate, and not least the level of taxes and charges. There's no reason we shouldn't be – I was saying – world champions in this area too. In the case of capital: it is not strange that there is no private capital in this country. For two generations, there has been a policy aimed at combating the build-up of private capital. Then you can't wait for it to exist in the next round. So the policies that have been pursued since the war have been successful.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e157	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e160	I had the pleasure of sitting on the podium with the government council Gabrielsen at the Business Conference yesterday with 750 entrepreneurs in the hall, and that was interesting. What's interesting is that these people aren't primarily asking for a lower tax. They see that tax of course is one element, everyone would have had lower taxes if they had the option. But there are two things that they especially think about: we should have equity through the state, because the private market is not good enough, and we want to have the opportunity for research and development, that is, to spend the state's money on research – at universities, at colleges, on research councils, or whatever else. It is these two factors that are to be the Norway of the future that focus on. Strangely, however, the government still insists that lower taxes are what are demanded in Norwegian business. So it's a positive mistake, and my challenge to the Minister of Industry is: if you really thought that unemployment was the biggest problem, why don't you take these people seriously and say yes, we're going to spend the money on equity, well, we're going to spend more money on research, at least to get on the OECD average – as the Storting has confirmed a number of times, and as this government is miles away from reaching.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e165	I'm going to address that part of the question that's going on research and development. In the case of equity, it is not the absence of state capital in Norwegian business that meets one. It's a completely different relationship. As far as research and development are concerned, I know that Djupedal and SV have been and are concerned about it, and that is commendable. It's quite clear that we just have to have the common recognition, all the parties that are in this room, that we have not really managed to fulfil the ambitions we ourselves have had in the 1990s. And it's not to stick under the chair that there's a reason for that. This is not because it has not been important, but for the last decade, the budgetary procedure has given priority to other things in front of it. And so when you're doing a budgetary process, it has to be a priority. And it's well known, not least for Djupedal, that there have been other things that have been even higher priority than increasing research. But what's undeniably: if we don't do anything about this, we'll meet a weekday in 10-20 years that we definitely don't want, when the oil revenue falls. We can't live on returns and reading account statements from the oil fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e172	Lodve Solholm – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e175	What surprises me is that the government is running such a business-neutral policy. Now we have seen that the so-called plan has been slaughtered by Right's own members in our county to be little targeted, little forward-looking, and that he makes the industry, not least in areas where Norway is the best and can still be the best – within the offshore and marine sectors – go roughly west, to say it in our language. Then I am amazed that the Government does not take this into account and is willing to give business in our country the same framework conditions as business in the countries with which we compete. Then it becomes strange to me that a constant swarm of business neutrality, when one knows, as the Council of State also said, that our competitive business is now in trouble. Why can't we have the same framework conditions they have in the countries with which these industries compete?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e182	For guidance to the Council of State, the President will assume that the expression ‘right west’ is not positive, even if the questioner comes from the west coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e185	Walking right west will have very different consequences if you do it from Ålesund, or if you do it from Oslo. Let me first say in relation to this myth of business-neutral policy that I do not know about any party that has been more consistently implemented in proposals to introduce the socio-economic term of business neutrality, than the Progress Party, by its proposal to abolish SND, by its proposal to cut to a level beyond what we should have, and which fortunately has not been given a majority in the Grand Duchy throughout the 1990s. So in terms of the myth that Solholm, possibly by mistake, is now trying to stick to others in relation to the marine sector, the fishing industry and the farming industries, it's just that there have been significant challenges there, and that's still it. The main challenge, of course, has been resource access. With regard to the farming industry, I think maybe some of the problem has been that you spent between 5 and 6 billion kroner on buying concessions, and then it turns out at a market drop that you get a blue-collar day. I think that's about to straighten out by the slope we're now experiencing in that market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e192	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e196	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. There is currently quite a lot of dissatisfaction with the Post's services throughout the country. It shall apply, inter alia, to: that the post office takes a long time; in fact, the post office may take many days between neighbouring municipalities. There's a huge fee on packages from abroad, it's a threat to end the offer and cancellation of people, and now people are wondering if they might only get mail a few days a week. This creates anxiety and dissatisfaction. The Norwegian people have been used to trusting the Post. A lot of people don't do it anymore. I have noted that the Council of State has invited Posten AS to ensure that everything is very well and in accordance with the terms of the concession. What if this is not the case? What if it is not possible for Posten AS to do what they should, within the financial framework they have? What will the government do then?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e205	The post office has given commitments through concession, where we have provided guidance for quality and service requirements that the Posten will contribute to throughout the country. Then I register that in some parts of the country there is expressed dissatisfaction with the quality of the Post. There is a response The post office has also received. In the big picture, I would like to remind you that today we have a better quality of the Post than we have ever had. Almost 90 pst. of the A-post has now been sent to the consignee on the following day. It's never been that good before. In Norway, we have a six-day shift of mail every week. That means that 99.94 pst. the Norwegian population has an entry of six days a week. Show me the other countries that have it like this! At the same time, as I said at the outset, there are individual areas in the country where it is not. Among other things, we have the situation in Finnmark, where there are reactions to the Post not meeting the expectations of the State. The Post Office has been addressed, and the Post and Telecommunications Authority has also launched a review of the concrete situation in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e216	I thank the Council of State for your answer. The State at the State Council is both the owner of the Post and the concession authority. It gives a lot of responsibility, and it gives a lot of impact. I expect that the Council of State, even if it might seem like a trivialization, sees the problems that the major changes have led to in the Post. In part, the entry AS provides a better one and, in part, a worse one than before the conversions. But there is a lot of evidence to suggest that the road is going wrong. So this is going to be 10 pst. Of the 27 000 who work in the post office prior to the conversion, now are dissatisfaction, and there is a great deal of sick leave. The item has been reduced, but much indicates that the country has not been reduced because the expenditure has been transferred to the social security budget. I must say I'm worried. I want a review before we proceed to further conversions, which are now alerted. I wonder if the council wants such a review, or whether it's pretty much satisfied with the state that it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e227	We use postal and telecommunications supervision on an ongoing basis to assess whether the Post fulfils the requirements of the concession. It's an important function, and it's important that we do that job. It is clearly our policy that the whole country should have good postal services. It's solid. Conversion creates problems. What matters to us in the post-political field is that the whole country has good services. Then it is often that you have to go through changes, which are sometimes painful. There has been a broad political consensus that it is necessary to achieve the overall objectives. I won't be able to agree that we're going wrong in terms of transitions to make the Post more effective precisely to achieve these overall policy objectives. That's something that we'll always take care of. But I'm not ready to say that we're going crazy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e234	There will be three follow-up questions – first Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e237	The entry is one of several examples of a dramatic centralisation in state enterprises, while the Government is flagging the relocation of state jobs. This results in jobs in many districts; it results from the foundation of many jobs because distribution is getting worse. And then, in fact, it also follows the lack that we have today when it applies to local viewers. It has been said that it is the department's requirement for ignition in the Post that causes many newspapers now to be in danger of going down the doll as a result of increased postal tariffs. My question will then be: Is it good left policy to contribute to the absence of local authorities, the ability to communicate and local persuasion being removed, or will the Council of State take action in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e244	The left is as well known for a diversity in our society. This is precisely why we are dedicated to doing the Post as a tool to ensure that, wherever you live in the country, you have a good postal service that will also help to spread your opinion throughout the country. It is important for us that the post office is protected for this. That means we have to have an organization, an enterprise, that is capable of taking care of this function. At the same time, we have a regulatory framework to deal with. It is such that there is no cross-subsidisation between different types of functions. It applies in several sectors, and so does the Post Office. The most important thing is that we have an enterprise that is able to perform that function as efficiently as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e249	Sigrun Eng – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e252	I want to drill a little bit more into what the last question was about. What has created dissatisfaction in the last few weeks is Posten's demand for extra postage tariffs for newspapers and magazines. The increase should be 60 pst. in three years. The result may be newspaper death, the result may be that our pride, that we are the world's most newspaper-reading people, disappear. And as many people have been in the past, the lack of progress, we get poorer communities because of the Post's prizes. The entry explains that they have deficits on services, a deficit that should have increased enormously over the last few years. Could this be right? What will the Council of State do about this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e259	The country purchases annual services from the Item for 300 million. kr. It's precisely because we're concerned that there should be equivalent offers also around the districts. With regard to what the representative Eng here is talking about, which is a postage for newspapers, I would like to remind you that in the past there was a differentiation of the content of the concession given to the Post Office. The post office was able to differentiate the tariffs by content. This part was removed from the concession under the previous government. It was the government of Stoltenberg that made sure that part of the concession was gone. Based on that situation, it is important to me that we have a company, Posten Norge AS, which is able to perform its functions as best as possible, given the concession we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e264	Geir-Ketil Hansen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e268	The government spends more than 300 million dollars. NOK on the purchase of postal services because we are going to have a qualitatively good postal delivery across the country. Nevertheless, it appears that there are failures in parts of the country, especially in Finnmark, among others. the closure of the sorting terminal in Alta has focused on the fact that we will have a further weakening offer. It appears that the Council of State has met with the management of the Post on these matters, and Group Director Kaare Frydenberg says in a press release after the meeting that the Council of State has had a great deal of understanding of the necessity of the Post’s decision to change the terminal structure. What's right here? Does this mean that the Council of State has made good the changes made by the Post, or will the Council of State intervene to stop part of the closure?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e275	The post is facing major changes. There is a sharp decline in traditional mail. This situation the Post has to deal with. They have to have an organisation that takes this development into account. We still want as a society and as politicians to have a good postal quality around the country. This means that the Post Office board has a great responsibility to ensure that they have an organisation that is suitable for this. And then we have to separate this from what goes on in quality. The quality of Posten's services in some parts of the country can certainly be discussed, even though it is largely very, very good. I have myself taken the initiative to review Finnmark especially as to whether the quality is good enough, and whether it can do something to get it better. The Post itself must then be allowed to make recordings in relation to how to make this job as effective as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e282	Let's move on to the next question of hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e285	I want to ask a question to the Minister of Industry. One of Højre's most prominent politicians is County rapporteur Roald Bergsaker in Rogaland. He has written a letter to the Stortinget stating that he is deeply concerned about the commercial policy being pursued. In the letter, Bergsaker says that if they are not followed up with resources, they are of little use with great words and fine plans. Does the Council agree with its own county rapporteur from Rogaland that today's industrial policy is marked by a surplus of words and deficits of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e292	If the representative Ryan had asked if I agreed with what Bergsaker had said, without saying what he had said, I would probably have said yes. I know Bergsaker very well over many years as a very sensible man and as a capable county rapporteur. In addition, he is now, as far as I know, Chairman of SND Rogaland. It means that it is for Bergsaker as it is for Ryan, for me and for many others, that you have some hats to manage. Then it is that SND Rogaland has been reduced in appropriations over the SND, Bergsaker believes that SND could have been used in a reasonable way. As far as I remember on the go, the difference from 2001 to 2002 is 14.1 million. kr in the case of Rogaland. The same business as both County rapporteur Bergsaker and SND Chairman of the Board of Directors Bergsaker should be responsible for regional development has received a tax reduction of approximately 800 million. kr in the case of Rogaland. I've been in contact with a lot of companies in Rogaland. Let me put it this way: the melody is a little different, depending on whether you talk to people who are in the middle of business, or those who are state politicians and members of a government in the SND. It is not so strange that it is different, and that should be so. But of course we have to make an overall assessment. I'm pretty sure that if we had taken 14.1 million. NOK 800 million. kr we have given in tax relief, sent it to SND in Rogaland and confiscated the 786 other millions, there would have been a significant weakening of the opportunities for business in Rogaland to create new jobs. One could not possibly imagine the idea that there should have been more jobs of it than what we have chosen as an alternative, and that now turns out to be working.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e299	I note that there is considerable disagreement between the Minister for Industry and the County rapporteur in Rogaland about how reality is. I look at the letter from Bergsaker as a cry for help from one of our leading industrial states. Bergzag points out that they need 30,000 new jobs over the next 15 years. I know that there are other states that are also struggling significantly in relation to the industry. Sogn and Fjordane, for example, are facing dramatic changes that some people have to deal with. My follow-up question is: Will the Council of State come to Stortinget with a scheme to meet these major challenges that Bergsaker and others point to?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e306	I said in a previous answer that I can't remember that for a period of the lifetime of the Kingdom, at least in modern times, there have been as dramatic improvements in the framework conditions for Norwegian business as what has happened in the last two years. And so I disagree with the idea of, for example, $14 million. kr more to SND in Rogaland is more favourable to developing new jobs and retaining those we have than they have about. $800 million. kr in tax reductions. It has given them muscles to resist the downturn, and it has simply meant that we now have fewer unemployed people in Rogaland than if we had chosen another action option. But that doesn't mean we're betting either on one or on the other, we're running both tracks. What we're doing now, in the new agency that we set up from New Year's, is focusing on what Bergsaker is concerned about: start-up, getting to business start-ups, innovation and innovation. New jobs need to be created. There is no doubt about this, unfortunately we have 8 000 fewer employees in the country today than we had in October 2001, and that is a challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e311	There will be three follow-up questions – first Lodve Solholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e314	I want to ask you a question. We have just received a plan of holistic innovation from the Council of State. This plan is being slaughtered by the director of Ulstein's yard, Gunvor Ulstein. Steel Rasmussen, who is the director of Kleben Verft, reports out of the Right precisely because the government and government council Gabrielsen is pursuing a business policy that does not take care of the maritime cluster, which is the world champion, in order to use the sports language, and could continue to be so, if the government had put up a different policy than it is put up to today. It is obvious that the Government, by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Industry, does not take this seriously. They arrogantly dismiss all criticism and talk about business neutrality. Does the government and government council not take Gabrielsen seriously these signals coming from some of the perhaps most successful business leaders at least on our edges of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e319	I hear that it is of little use to suggest to the representative that what he calls the arrogant preaching of business neutrality, I have never done. I'm never going to do that. It will never be part of this government's policy that we should implement business neutrality. It's just one example that I can think about on the go, that can go under that vignette. That is the moment we said that the electricity charge should be removed from all industry. It actually becomes neutral when we're not going to have it for anyone. In addition, we have done what we have done in the area of taxation. With regard to the shipbuilding industry in particular, we are in the situation that in 2003 it becomes «all hour high» globally, but only 5 pst. of the tonnage built in the world will be built in Europe. It is an expression that high-cost countries have problems, and we are perhaps among those countries in Europe that have the highest costs. In addition, we have a significant overcapacity, and it recognises the yard industry. And that shipyard winners are frustrated in such a situation, I have a great understanding of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e326	Olav Akselsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e330	I started my previous question by commending the Minister of Industry that he now seemed to take the situation seriously. After this questioning I believe that I will withdraw that rose again, because unfortunately the problems that Bergsaker has raised are real. It surprises me how little the Minister of Industry takes these signals from his party trap in Rogaland, and not least from the business community in the district. In my view, he strongly underestimates his own party traps when he does not take these signals more seriously. And my advice is that when he doesn't want to listen to the opposition, at least listen to his own people who are near where the problems occur. What is a major issue in Norway now is that someone addresses the problems that Bergsaker describes. An active minister is requested. We don't have that minister today. In my view, we have a minister who does too little to put these things on the agenda. My question is, when the Minister of Industry is so satisfied, how can it be that business is so dissatisfied with the same policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e337	I am aware that we in this Chamber are pursuing politics – and that is how it should be. But I still think that a lack of audacity should be allowed. If you look at the input from business organisations that are supposed to represent the enterprises for which they are made, we have followed the recommendations in the case of what has been most important for Norwegian business in this two-year period. It will then be seen that, by reading through the recordings made to the Financial Committee, if mentioned at all, what is going on is the increase in appropriations for this area, relatively far below the list. It's been the very basic things business has been busy about, and we've taken that into account. We have largely succeeded in these things, and now we are beginning to see the effects, with an increasing degree of optimism. Although unemployment has stuck to an too high level, there is still absolute light at the other end of the tunnel. And I don't think it's a meeting train.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e344	The President will stress that euphoria is of the things that are completely allowed in this hall. It's never going to be charged from the President's office, if the Council of State feared it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e347	This council of states is doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e352	Øystein Djupedal – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e355	What I think is discouraging in these dialogues with the Minister of Industry is that he does not take into account the seriousness and frustration of his own party traps. Because this isn't about every penny or every million dollars to SND, it's about a fundamental pessimism that unfortunately has spread in a lot of environments, and that this government is strengthening. Pessimism is because you don't use the tools that the state actually has, to get the wheels going and to get the optimism back on track. And pessimism is self-enhancing. That means that this signal that Bergsaker sends out is the same signal that many of us hear when we move around in Norway, from business leaders, from their own party traps, from the party traps of others – it really doesn't matter – everyone kind of doesn't look very optimistic in the future. Then it is expected that political leadership and the government are actually trying to do something seriously to create optimism. What may well be the main problem is a Minister of Industry who is defensive, who does not accept that the world looks a little different from where in Norway it might be, than from government offices. Perhaps the biggest problem we have with industrial policy in Norway today is a passive minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e360	It is clear that it is not easy in one minute to have a dialogue around the challenges we face in the industry as a whole, and not least in the yard industry in particular, which is absolutely serious. It is a European challenge, which is also addressed by the Norwegian side. Now I might have used a wrong word when I was talking about autility. It's not often I recommend with all my heart to concentrate on a editorial in Dagbladet. However, this should be done with regard to the editorial article that was published on Monday. I think at least we should be able to gather about enjoying the sparkle that has now come into very many industries. This applies both to the position and to the opposition. It is quite clear that the policy that we have pursued and pursued, with very hard implementation, has worked. Because it is that in most industries, with some exceptions, there are positive signs. But then there's someone we have to deal with in particular, and the yard industry is definitely one of these. I think, unfortunately, that the main challenge is related to capacity, and someone will have to sweep out. It's a confession I got in the meeting I had with the yard industry – with which I have regular meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e367	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e370	I have a question for the Minister of Health. Later in the ordinary questionnaire, the Center Party asks seven questions about hospitals and specialist health services, but I want to get into the hospital reform right now. It is probably the largest administrative reform in Norwegian history, and the aim was among others. efficiency, productivity and clearer responsibilities to provide good health services to the whole population. The first goal is working on it, but for the last goal, it seems to go the opposite way. Economic assessments and considerations are ahead of health care responsibilities. The people are worried. Neither local nor local and regional politicians have any influence on decision-making processes. It confuses the traditional process that you had before with the balance that was in a common understanding between politicians, professional medical personnel and administrators. The medical profession had to take social policy into account, and the politicians had to take medicine into account. What will the Minister of Health do to restore this balance and trust between the hospital, local democracy and citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e379	Let me first say that I basically agree with the representative of Luttvold on the importance of trust between hospital services, health services and the population, and between professionals and politicians. I believe that, in fact, this hospital reform has already achieved very important results after just under two years, but unfortunately it is rare to hear the Central Party be willing to admit it. In fact, it is an improvement for the population that the availability of healthcare has improved. We've seen a dramatic decline in waiting times and waiting lists. We have seen that the treatment offer has increased. Never have so many people been treated for as much as in today's hospital system. There are, in fact, improvements in the provision of health care. In addition, in the first whole financial year following the reform, health businesses have also contributed to a better use of resources, according to Sintef Unimed figures. That means that even at that point there has actually been a development in line with the intentions. So I'm going to be the first one to admit that we have challenges in communication between the health service and the locals and the locals. I have mentioned this with health companies, and I get feedback – most recently from a rapporteur I met yesterday – that that communication has become much better. I have pressed for transparency in all processes, and I have imposed open meetings on the companies, no later than 1 January. That transparency makes it almost impossible to think a thought, at least not to put it on paper, but to put it online. And that means there's a debate at an early stage about suggestions or ideas and investigations that never come to a decision. But there has actually been a broad wish in this room that you should have that kind of openness. Then we also have to bear in mind that we have processes that create a certain debate and unrest, to put it mildly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e390	I first want to comment on this with transparency in health companies – it should be lacking! There has been no agreement in this room about that openness. We have put forward proposals on this and have been voted down, but fortunately it will come from 1 January 2004. But those who are afraid of losing their health supply and the closeness and security they feel of having a health offer close by, do you think they agree that these are the basic values of the welfare state in relation to equality, justice and solidarity? It is one of the fundamental principles of health reform and should be it in progress. It should also be a public responsibility to provide good health care to the whole population, and respect for what has been achieved in the Norwegian health system. Furthermore, as a key principle of health reform, political governance and influence should be provided to ensure the welfare policy objectives of good health services. Does the Minister of Health think that these basic principles and what is the basis for the value of health reform are being fulfilled by day, when we see how division, sections and centralization are being carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e398	If we could agree on a description of reality, and then communicate it to the population in a factual and tiring way, I think that the turmoil that we see and that I understand very well would have been a lot less. Because it's not like we're cutting down local hospitals, that we're cutting down food supplies. There are some changes happening. I've been working my whole life to develop and modernise the public sector, and I've been very enthusiastic about implementing the biggest public sector reform ever. I'm doing it because I think preserving, preserving everything that it is, not changing and developing, it's deadly in the public sector in general, and it's literally deadly in health too. Health services are based on a fast-moving medical development. And if we don't have the ability to convert and develop, we don't guarantee a safe offer to the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e405	There will be four follow-up questions – first Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e408	I think there is little disagreement between the undersigned and the Council of State on the need for conversion. The question is how fast this is going to take place and how dramatic the transition must be. So far, at least, an overall opposition is skeptical about the government's draft budget, because the transition seems to be too dramatic and going too fast. Around health businesses, we now see that relatively dramatic structural changes are being driven and assessed in order to adapt to the economic environment signalled by the Government for next year, and there is little doubt that if these structural changes were to be implemented, it would affect patients. That's why it'll be a target for the opposition, I think, to improve the health budget in relation to next year's government budget. No dramatic structural change should take place until the budget is adopted in this Chamber. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State agree that no dramatic changes are being made until the budget is adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e417	I will answer directly and specifically the questions put by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. It would be irresponsible for those responsible in the regional health establishments and health care establishments not to draw up the basis for their budgets and their operating arrangements for 2004, even if the final budgetary decisions of the Stortingen have not been taken. On the other hand, I believe that the final budgetary decisions taken by enterprises – and in particular by the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, in my opinion, call dramatic changes – should not be taken until after the Storting has established the framework for hospitals and what other framework conditions they will have for 2004. I have notified this to the directors of the regional health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e424	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e427	I note that the Minister of Health is carrying out the health reform with great enthusiasm. The Christian People's Party, in its time, stood in opposition to the same reform with the Center Party. So to the question. Health West has decided to transform the maternity wards of Lærdal hospitals into a so-called reinforced birthplace. The midwives at the hospital have abandoned their positions, and they have ended up protesting what they feel is a professionally poorer supply of food. The surgeons have also refused to perform the Naudkeis section. Health West now introduces an air bridge with midwives from Lofoten and Tromsø. Surgeons have so far not been closed in providing. The solution outlined must be far more cost-effective than the existing maternity ward with stable midwife and gynecologist competence. The Minister of Health has received a report from the Health West on his table on 1 November. Will the Minister of Health encourage this to be presented to the Stortinget, so that the Social Committee can discuss the situation in the Health West, similar to other health regions, before the 2004 budget is released from the Committee on 4 December?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e434	Let me first thank Mr Navarsete for the information that the Christian People's Party voted against the reform when it was adopted. I'm actually aware of that. But the Christian People's Party, unlike the Centre Party, has taken note of the fact that the reform was actually adopted, and has taken as a starting point that it is now about contributing in the most targeted way that it is actually being realised, so that patients, users, communities get better health services. That's my starting point for the job I have to do, and there shouldn't be any reason to criticize me or the Christian People's Party for actually doing it. Then to the content of the policy. We have discussed in the Ministry of Health, and as Minister of Health at the Business Meeting in Health West, the Health West proposal for a restructuring of the food supply in Sogn and Fjordane, among others. I have agreed to the proposal on some very clear premises. And I have, to make sure that these premises can be fulfilled, or are fulfilled, asked for a report on the basis of implementation and fulfilment of these prerequisites by 1 November. I probably just got it in the house. [[The President clubs.]] About forgiveness, President, let me just – if I'm allowed – end with a sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e441	Unquestionably.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e444	Thank you. I will now examine that report, and I will follow it up in line with the assumptions that I have stated, and that I have explained in the Proposition of the State Budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e451	Sigbjørn Molvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e454	What is now happening across the country, food supply, emergency preparedness and other treatment services are planned to be closed down or severely weakened, naturally creates great unrest and insecurity among people. And it's come out that it's collected – as far as I know – 150 000 signatures, and 40,000 people have gone on demonstration trains to show their concern and uncertainty for the future, a concern that SV share. People do not understand that the Storting intervenes. Following the demonstrations against food and emergency services in front of the Stortinget on 31 October, the Minister of Health promised that he would follow this closely and possibly intervene. The Minister of Health has also on various occasions signalled that he will bring these plans and decisions before the Storting. The question then arises: When and in what way will the Council of State ensure that the Grand Duchy is able to decide on the closure plans available in different health establishments?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e464	I have, among other things: in response to an interview from SV’s Olav Gunnar Ballo, said that I would like to develop the planning and notification system under the Health Business Act, so that the Stortinget will have an opportunity to discuss on the basis of plans and messages from the companies, which they will submit annually. I have made a plan part and a message part in the 2004 budget proposal. It is now under consideration in the Committee of which the representative Mr Molvik is a member. And the Storting has every opportunity to express what it thinks about the explanation that lies there, about the structural changes in enterprises. Otherwise, as I have said, I will follow these proposals carefully. And I want to make sure that any conversion measures that may be implemented are consistent with the leadings that Stortinget has given in the governing health documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e471	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e474	I fully agree with the Minister of Health when he says in the opening that the health reform has actually worked. More patients have never been treated in Norway, and waiting lists are on their way down. So in this context, it is important that we continue on that track in terms of reform, in order to treat as many patients as possible, so that they – I kept saying – can get to work again, but not least get a better daily life. What happens now, however, is that there is a very great deal of uncertainty in the people. Because it may seem that sports have almost come up with a number of different proposals for savings, closures and restructuring, and almost use the reactions of the population as a test piece for their own proposals. I wonder: can the Council of State reassure us that he will try to stop this nearest ‘think tank’ which is now out and going to health companies with various proposals, and ensure that at least the proposals that are coming, and possibly stop the unprofessional proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e483	I would like to distance myself from the description of the work done in the healthcare companies that is now being provided to the best of the representatives of Nesvik. They do a job on the basis of the framework conditions adopted by Stortinget, and on the basis of the mandates given by Stortinget, both in terms of improving the quality of the offer and in terms of ensuring cost-effective operation. Then I have explained that an open policy in relation to the publication of documents etc. necessary will lead to the submission to the public of some proposals of which there will never be any. And then we get a debate that bears the mark of it. But I want to, as the responsible state council, assure the Storting that as a corporate meeting of health companies, I will ensure that the conversion measures that actually come to a final decision are in line with the principles and general guidelines drawn up by the Storing. And I have shown that if necessary I can also intervene in the form of reviewing decisions that I do not find are consistent with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e490	The President intends to give room for two main questions within the time frame, and this means that there will be no time for follow-up questions in relation to these two main issues. Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e495	My question goes to the Minister of Health. In view of the serious economic situation of health businesses, the various companies have recently presented a number of proposals for rationalising and restructuring our hospitals where, in many cases, both professional and public awareness appear to be absent. Examples are the proposal in Health South to maintain only two emergency receptions in the counties of Buskerud, West People and Telemark, as well as the proposal from Health East to shut down the maternity ward at Gjøvik, which has 900 births a year. Sending 900 pregnant women out in traffic in the direction of Lillehammer is an example of what I would call professionally unprofessional suggestions. The Minister of Health should be the right person to tell our business leaders in the regions that a person cannot fully apply market-economy operating principles in the management and management of hospitals, as hospital treatment is about living people, and that hospitals should not only provide treatment but also provide the highest level of care and security. Will the Minister of Health ensure that this restructuring lever, which is now being implemented in enterprises, is calmed down until the State budget has been dealt with by the Stortinge?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e506	I refer to the answer I gave to the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on a similar question, and will once again confirm that it is my opinion that the final budgetary decisions in health companies should be taken after the Stortinget has clarified the framework for the hospitals for 2004, and that I have expressed it to the regional health companies' directors. Let me also say that it is my clear opinion that in a necessary transition, which I believe is important – the opposite is worse – the consideration of patients should be overall. Severe illness is to be protected, psychiatry is to be protected. We need to give priority to cancer, geriatry, habilitation and rehabilitation. We need a proper emergency offer. We need a proper food supply. These are general guidelines for policy, which I will be guided by, and which I, among other things. will be taken into account when I will have a business meeting in Health East later this week and address the issue of the provision of food both for the Hospital Inland and for the Oslo region. To put it this way: I have noticed that there is a proposal to close a maternity ward in Gjøvik, a maternity ward that is functioning well, and that has a number of births that far exceed the minimum requirement that the Storting has set up. I want to make the unanimous decision that Stortinget has made on the care of the child, on the basis of which I deal with that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e513	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Many of the proposals that have been floating in the air in the last six months, I find very unprofessional. They create insecurity among patients and relatives, and, perhaps the worst of all, insecurity within hospitals in relation to health professionals, doctors and nurses, which can result in local hospitals being especially drained for professionals. The reform has been described as positive in the past, and I support it – I shall not say anything more about it. Finally, my question to the Minister of Health is this: can the Minister of Health formally change the requirement for the balance of the budget for enterprises as it now exists in 2004 by postponing this requirement until 2006, or must such a case be brought before the Stortinget? And, in the case of the Minister of Health, will he make an additional proposal as quickly as possible so that this can be dealt with in the context of the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e522	To the representative Alvheim's specific question, I would like to say that the overall financial arrangements for the hospitals for 2004 have already been presented by the Government in a proposal. We don't have to present a new proposition to the Storting in order for the Storting to be able to decide on the different elements of the framework conditions for next year. It is now in the hands of the Storting. In my opinion, the government has presented the basis that Stortinget needs to assess this. I will, of course, serve the Social Committee if you want further information, but I believe that the basis for the Storting's decisions on the financial arrangements for the hospitals for 2004 is in place in the proposition that has already been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e529	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e532	I have a question for the Minister of Industry. Since the Bondevik government took over, unemployment in Norway has doubled, and today more than 112,000 people are unemployed, and unemployment is still growing. This year there will be a new Norwegian record in the number of bankruptcies, and the number of new start-ups will fall. Only in the last year have over 20,000 industrial workplaces disappeared. There are over 55 workspaces per day. So, above all, we have a government that says that politics works. The most concrete proposal made by the Government to the industry this year is the proposal to make major changes to the permit rules. Feedback from industry, and especially from industry, is clear: this will lead to more people being laid off, and it will reduce the chance of getting new jobs. Then my question becomes: is this the best handshake Government could give industry this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e542	Let's just agree that the reality is that in Norway, too, we have had an increasing unemployment rate, and it's per year. October 2003 for 89 406 persons who are completely unemployed, and 112,000 persons in total. But let me also start by saying that despite that we are fortunate in the situation that in the European context we are favourable, or in another way: at least bad. The government has attacked this from day one, starting in October 2001, through a systematic improvement of the framework conditions for Norwegian business. So, in addition to what we've done in relation to tax policy, we've managed to get an interest rate drop that, for Norwegian business, is $20 billion. We've gradually grown in the economy, and in the national budget for 2004, we're expecting growth in 2005. Right now, unemployment seems to be flat. I expect that we will have impacts in the creation of new jobs related to what we do in terms of research, in terms of increased research resources and Tax Funding, and what we do with the simplification work, what we do with the conversion of instruments, and perhaps not least what we do with the seed funds. Then it is that we have also made proposals, which are, to some extent, sort under a government council other than me, linked to the rules of permancy, etc., which, in isolation for individual companies, could be negative by changing the pay obligation from 3 to 30 days. In terms of time of leave, we're reducing this from 52 to 26 weeks. I just want to remind you in all kindness that these are proposals that the Workers' Party has also made when they have been in position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e555	I think there's a poor consolation for those who have been unemployed in the last year, that the situation is worse in other countries. I agree with the Minister of Proximity that it is important to keep finances in order, and so the Labour Party has, at present, actually had a tighter budget than the government has had. But my question was specifically about the permitting rules. So it's going to be a lot harder to keep people in touch with a company in difficult periods because the government has put in place stricter rules. This, in turn, will mean that more companies have to cancel their people. When these companies don't have their workforce to play on when they're trying to get new jobs, it also means that the chance that these companies will start up again, and that these people per. Today or in the near future is being permitted, should come back to work, has been reduced. It is true that the Labour Party has also made changes, but we have done so for periods when it has our pressure in the labour market. Now there is a lack of jobs that is the big problem, and then this is totally wrong medicine. Then the Minister of Economic Affairs should have been involved to ensure that the medicine was not dosed in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e564	I record that the representative Akselsen has changed his mind on the law of the permit. The government he himself was in promoted this proposal, and I shall quote from Ot.prp. No 17 for 2001-2002, where it says: ‘However, it is important that the legislation is not subject to constant changes. This change should withstand cyclical fluctuations and changes in activity in the exposed sectors.» Understood: It was thought that this legislation would apply regardless of the economic cycle you were in, up, down or where you might be. It was thought briefly that this made sense in relation to the lock-in of the labour force. That is also what is in our government's proposal, which is now being discussed in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e574	The working party has never suggested making a change in payment from day three!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e579	There is no access to line change in connection with the oral question procedure, as is known! The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e586	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Prime Minister, has been withdrawn. Question 2, from the representative Svein Roald Hansen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away. Question 3, from the representative of Torstein Rudihagen to the Minister of Finance, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 4, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, this question is moved and answered before Question 28, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 24, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Food and Trade, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 2, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 25, from the representative of Odd Holten to the Minister for Transport, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 29, from the representative of Marit Arnstad to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be raised by the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete. Question 31, from the representative Signe Eye to the Minister for the Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries, who is directly responsible. At the request of the Minister for Fisheries, this question is moved and answered in response to question 23, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e620	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e627	This question, from the representative Svein Roald Hansen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e630	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Council of State: ‘Liechtenstein has blocked the signature of the new EEA Agreement due to an old conflict with the Czech Republic and Slovakia. According to the Official Journal of the Bergen on 22 October, Hans Adam II first declares to avisa Liechtensteiner Vaderland that the sovereignty of the country and the independence of the people are more important than the EEA Agreement. What will the situation be for Norway if the conflict is not resolved and the new EEA Agreement is not signed by the EU enlargement on 1 May 2004?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e639	The EEA Agreement is very important for Norway. We have therefore been actively working towards our two EFTA partners and the EU side to ensure that the EEA extended agreement can enter into force on 1 May next year. Although there is not an absolute deadline for signing the agreement, it is now very important that the signature does not delay further in time, so that the ratification processes are also delayed. The extended EEA Agreement cannot enter into force until all have signed and the Agreement has been approved in all 28 EEA National Parliaments. Norway and Iceland have not taken a decision on the unresolved issues that lie behind the case, which do not contain any elements of their own intervention in EEA cooperation. The Norwegian and Icelandic Foreign Ministers last Sunday had a constructive meeting with their Czech and Slovak colleagues in Praha, who explained the scope of action in this matter. Liechtenstein’s Minister for Foreign Affairs has been informed of the content of these talks and, on this basis, Norway and Iceland aim to sign the EEA Agreement this week – and hope that all three countries can do so at the same time. If Liechtenstein is not able to sign, we will face a difficult situation that needs to be assessed more closely there and then. There is no express condition in the contract work for any minimum number of EFTA countries. However, I do not want to wonder what will happen if Liechtenstein chooses not to sign the agreement. As I said, it's a question we might have to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e652	I thank you for the answer, and I have no doubt that the Government has done what it has been able to do to stop Liechtenstein from blocking the EEA Agreement and signing it with Norway and Iceland. The Council of States can say something about how long we can wait for a signature from Liechtenstein before considering whether the agreement can enter into force without Liechtenstein, if there are any other things that need to be done, so that we do not risk getting into the situation next spring that we are without a valid and current EEA agreement, and with this risk that Norwegian companies, among other things, may. without the legal protection provided by the agreement on the European market, which is being extended by ten new countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e659	It is quite clear that getting into a situation on 1 May where we have not got our EEA agreement with the EU will be a dramatic situation for Norwegian businesses. Then we will lack the legal protection and the legal framework that we need. In terms of the time at which this might have to be addressed with the EU, it will depend on what happens during this week. I will refrain from wondering when action needs to be taken if you do not succeed. Our starting point is that we hope and believe and work in relation to being able to do it during this week. I see no reason on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to wonder what to do on the last day!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e666	Then I just want the government to be happy with the efforts to bring Norway out of the hostage situation we are in relation to Liechtenstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e671	Thank you for the congratulations - they may be needed!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e676	With that, everyone should be at odds. Let's move on to question 24.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e685	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘In Hedmark, a person has received NOK 53,000 in support from SND to develop his witchcraft activity. Many people react negatively to this use of state resources, while other applicants with good ideas and applications feel neglected. Does the Council of State see that this can provoke and also weaken confidence in SND in the long term?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e694	Let me say first of all, let's not let this become a witch process. I don't think we'll be worth it. But after reading local newspapers and looking at the matter, I understand that headlines can be made that can turn the mind and imagination in such a way that some may be concerned. Let me put it this way: the concrete project that is available here came about on the basis of the fact that in the spring of 2002, SND Hedmark organized what is called innovation seminars, an idea-daughter, in the Glaum Valley, starting from the creation of innovation, founding and creation of new jobs. In such processes, ideas come up, actions, where someone in retrospect might turn out to be good, while someone turns out to be less good, and someone seems to have done things differently. Lena Skarning has a project under the forest hexa vignette and has received a grant on application and in accordance with normal procedures through documentation. I don't want to go in and separate weather and wind in Hedmark, who should have got, and who shouldn't have received a grant, no matter who might be excited. It is the case that the Storting grants funds for this type of activity each year and gives leads such as it is my responsibility as Minister of Industry to pass on to the SND in an allocation letter. I have, and I have not made reservations against witch activity or other special activities that can be put in quotation marks. It's up to the local and regional board to do. The size has been very concerned that the regional level, which knows the issues, knows the local needs, will manage these decisions. The tens of thousands of small businesses that address the SND have no review agency in the real world with the Minister of Industry. That is why I do not want to take a decision on this specific matter. But after looking at the matter, I think maybe this witch stamp is to draw it far, not least when you look at our television channels and what you can kind of characterize as both magic and witchcraft processes. I choose not to take a decision on the content. I see that SND has followed the guidelines. I see that this is within the local space of action and do not want to take the initiative to try it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e707	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was a relatively round answer. I understand that the Council of State will not give any direct leadership in this matter or in other matters. But I assume that when the minister is traveling, he might get the impression of what society is asking for. My impression is at least that society may not be asking for this type of activity to make everyday life simpler, brighter, more pleasant, better for yourself, for children, grandchildren, etc., or that business is getting a little richer directly on experiences that you need. Then my question is: what does the Minister of Industry think about evaluating issues that receive subsidies? When it comes to the number of applications that should be granted, compared with the number of applications that are still alive, the Minister of Industry sees that the projects are alive — to put it that way. I know that in Hedmark it is approx. 400 applications so far this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e719	The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has not given any leadership beyond the leadership of the Storting, where the intention is to get the most new jobs for the krone amount made available at all times. And of course, we're evaluating that on an ongoing basis. But we don't have any boxes for witches or anything else that shouldn't be in demand. I just have to honestly admit that in my visits around the country, which probably soon represents any detachment, such special witch activities have not been requested. There are many other things that have not been requested either, but that have nevertheless received grants, and that in a way must have a chance in life. What I'm concerned about is evaluating SND's work on the basis of criteria about what was created by jobs. But it has to be a local task to follow up this. Putting local governments in charge of the arrangements they make, I think it's quite natural that you do in Hedmark, because there will always be more applications than concessions. But we do that through an evaluation process related to the number of jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e726	The President will not put himself in the category names here, but will suggest that witches might well sort under the post in various ways!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e729	As I said, this year it is approx. 400 applications in Hedmark, and approx. one third of them have not received a grant. There are perhaps many of the third who have contacted me, because many people have contacted me in this matter, both those who have sent applications, and ordinary people, to use that expression. There have been applications from people who have good and fine ideas. There have been people with maybe a small handicap who, with a small support from SND – the crown amount is not the most important thing, but that you get recognition for your product – can develop your idea further. What might have been the big thing here is that some sheep and others don't get, of course. It will always be a discussion about the right people, the right applications, get money. I understand that it is a difficult matter for SND, but this case has provoked at least a lot of people, both those who have sought and have not received, and ordinary people. That is probably why this debate is going on. That's probably why the question now comes up in the question right over here. Maybe that's why I'm asking if there's an evaluation of projects within the SND.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e739	It is true that many do not receive grants. We have also seen some of the projects that have not received, but have nevertheless been realised and have had great development potential. It's going to be a little bit in the bright light of the afternoon clock. Regionally, it is possible to replace those politicians who show poor judgement in the exercise of the SND regimes. As far as I know, there are also representatives of the business community and business organisations in the board of directors who should be able to point this out. But when this is about NOK 50 000 in grants for a project, I must say that he has done quite well when he can get a debate in the national Parliament of NOK 50 000. The marketing value for this event company should be well above NOK 50000. In this way, Bredvold has contributed to a significant innovation and progress for this Hedmark series. I think I can frame a lot of projects in which the state has committed itself, where hundreds of millions of dollars have been wasted on far worse ideas, at least in terms of the amount.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e746	We go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e760	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. Question 4 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e770	‘To NRK Finnmark, the developers of the Snow White project say they are dissatisfied with the police service offered in Hammerfest. The expansion means that up to 1 400 workers live in a city with 9,000 inhabitants. Increased police service in the area is necessary. What initiatives will the Council of State take to ensure good police services in areas where there is a temporary need for increased efforts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e777	The chief of police in West Finnmark informs us that he is aware that the developers of the Snow White project want better police service in Hammerfest. According to the police chief’s assessment, the work has resulted in a marked increase in work, but not on such a scale that it does so per year. The current date creates some worrying strain for Hammerfest police station. Nevertheless, it is clear that as extensive an expansion as snow-white development is, police will face additional challenges. The police chief has therefore made internal redeployments in the police district, so that Hammerfest police station gets two additional annual works, much related to the Snow White Development. Furthermore, the police officer points to the possibility of accidents etc. in the development area, and will therefore recruit increased forensic competence for Hammerfest Police Station as soon as possible. At the same time, the Chief of Police stresses that the builder has an independent responsibility for security in the field of civil engineering. In close cooperation with the builder, the police chief will follow developments closely in the future. I therefore assume that the Police Directorate and the Chief of Police ensure a good and sound police service in Hammerfest in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e784	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Another side of the matter is that one thing is the builder who is dissatisfied with the police service, another is the residents, who live there all the time. Media reports that it is 40 pst. increase in violence cases in Hammerfest. They report that people don't want to report cases of crime in Hammerfest because the police don't have the capacity to investigate it. On the other hand, the West-Finland police district is a police district that was not reorganized in the police reform, and is exactly the same as it was before. I would like to ask whether the Council of State will ensure that the Police Directorate follows developments in the West-Finnmark police districts, and Hammerfest in particular, in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e793	I am familiar with the situation in the police district, among others. on their own visit there, and the department also has additional knowledge of the recent presence of the police director – I think it was yesterday. It is clear that we will follow developments, including: because there is a major expansion taking place, and also because in Hammerfest there is a separate development project in the police, so-called problem-oriented police work, in which the police are supposed to be able to record criminal incidents on which to settle. The district is interested for many reasons. Reason one: it's an original district, as the representative took up. Reason two: We have the Snow White extension. And recital three: There is very exciting police development work in the district. All of this we will follow closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e800	I thank you for the answer and am very pleased with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e809	‘Open reconciliation is important in order to prepare to return to society by release. However, open settlement shall not be used prematurely in the most serious cases and only where it is considered safe for safety reasons and in such a way as to achieve the purpose of the penalty. Over the last two years, has the Ministry of Justice taken the initiative to make it easier to obtain open settlements and early release than the Penal Code provides?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e816	I can assure the representative of Storberget that the Ministry has not taken the initiative to facilitate the transfer to lower-security prisons or to be released on trial. In accordance with Section 5 of the Penal Code, the regulation and guidelines of the law are designed in line with the intentions of the legislator. According to Section 11 of the Criminal Enforcement Act, criminal justice is to be sentenced to high-level prisons unless otherwise provided for by law. This means, therefore, that, in some cases, convictions can be directly transferred to lower-security prisons. However, such suspension shall not be decided if the purpose of the penalty, safety reasons or avoidance is contrary. In the regulation of the law, it is underlined that sentences are not to be placed in prisons with a lower level of security, if general preventive considerations or consideration of the general view of justice are contrary. Furthermore, the guidelines of the law stress that the choice of prison should consider in detail which security regime is deemed necessary. In accordance with the Penal Code, convictions may be transferred to prisons with a lower level of security after having carried out part of the sentence, unless the purpose of the sentence, security or avoidance is contrary. According to the Guidelines, general preventive considerations and general legal opinions shall be taken into account in addition to safety considerations. The guidelines further state that transfer should be considered when less than two years remain until expected release and should be considered on an ongoing basis if convictions have been sentenced to two years or less. As is known, the Penal Code states that such transfer is to be assessed when one year remains until the expected parole. I assume that the representative of Storberget agrees that it is important to facilitate an individually adapted and progressive criminal execution within a safe framework. The right to release sentences on trial after two thirds of the sentences have been executed is, as you know, continued in the new Penal Code. Such release shall not be decided if, after an overall assessment, the circumstances render it impracticable. As the representative of Storberget knows, it was previously almost automatic in release at two thirds of an hour. This practice was tightened up in the autumn of 1999 during my last term as Minister of Justice, and is now continuing in the new law. According to the guidelines, a specific, individual, full case-by-case assessment is to be carried out. In particular, attention shall be paid to behaviour during the conduct of criminal proceedings and to the risk of repetition. Thus, so-called repeaters must expect to execute punishment beyond two thirds of the time. For information I can inform that about 21 pst. was refused parole at two thirds of the time in 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e840	I thank you for a good answer. I am convinced that the Minister of Justice and the undersigned are almost a hundred percent in agreement on the importance of open settlement, and that this is particularly important also in relation to the individual adaptation that the Minister of Justice has in his reply. The reason why at least I have been involved in the public debate we have had on this issue over the past week is that, at times, extreme cases – the very few cases where this happens – can be feared to destroy general, good arrangements on which Norwegian convictions are highly dependent, and on which the fight against crime is highly dependent. That is why I welcome the Minister of Justice's response to the legislation. But does that mean that when people in Norway are convicted of the most serious punishment you can get, 21 years in prison, and you have to be paroled after two thirds of the time, as it says in the answer, you won't be able to expect to get open renunciation until two years before this parole, i.e. after 12 years. Is that correctly understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e849	I have explained when to consider probation and when to consider it. That means that we generally have strict guidelines for that. So when it comes to specific individual cases, they're at the root of it, as we're told here. In the case of a very specific case referred to above, it was considered that he could be transferred to open premises. It was a long debate on what has been said in the media. It is clear that the Ministry of Justice was very puzzled, and that after a review it was found. If we look at our entire criminal implementation regime, we can measure that we are strict, for example. we have under-capacity, i.e. under-use, e.g. Both by Ilseng and Hoff prisons last year and this year. That means we haven't taken advantage of solutions. If we look at our open institutions with low security, we have 330,000 prison days there, and we had 62 circumventions in 2002. So I feel like you're working very precisely and focused on just not bombing on the reasons of public law, which the representative has taken up, but at the same time giving the opportunity to return to society.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e856	The paradox in this is that several of us want more use of open ground, that's useful. But that doesn't mean we don't see that there may be a need for tightening up in relation to what I choose to call extreme cases. I want to challenge the Minister of Justice in relation to the current example that has appeared in the press recently, how the Ministry of Justice has assessed this case, whether it is in line with the rules that have now been correctly pointed out, whether it is also consistent with the practices of gangs across the country, and that this is a set of rules where we can get equal treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e861	My general impression is that the emphasis is on equal treatment through professional dialogues between the central part of criminal justice and the regions, and that the guidelines and principles I have outlined should be followed. With regard to the specific individual matter, I commented on it solely because some realities have been presented in the media. I have asked for information on that matter both from the police and from the Criminal Service to be sure that things have been done the right way. But I'm assuming that it's done, and I'm assuming that it happens in every case. If we hadn't, we would at least have quite a lot more escapes and avoidances than we have. My general impression is that the prison profession is trying to make an individual assessment. But it may happen, as you know, that you're missing that assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e871	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘In the Fostervoll Committee, it was recommended that the rescue helicopter service be prepared for 15 minutes. [[NOT 1997:3]] In St.meld. [[2000-2001]] No 44 says the government that the introduction of a bystander would mean the same thing. In the course of the Storting's treatment of that notification, it was used, inter alia, to: said that ‘An overall committee also takes a very positive view of the proposal to reduce the response time’. Since the introduction from 2004 of the 330s quadron on the Sola, what kind of reaction time does the Council expect the Defence to deliver?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e880	In St. prp. No 1 for 2003-2004 the Government proposes that the rescue helicopter base on the Sola be set up with a 24-hour bystander with a view to its establishment from 1 January 2004, depending on its practical feasibility. Until now, it has been considered satisfactory to require a response time in the rescue helicopter service of a maximum of 60 minutes and that the crew are on domestic duty outside normal working hours. In practice, in the sun, this scheme has given an average response time of approx. Forty minutes. The main purpose of the rescue helicopter is to rescue people from death or injury as a result of acute accident situations. This means that you have to get to the emergency room as soon as possible. I therefore propose that the 2004 budget should include: to create bystander on the Sun for as short a response time as possible. The response time depends on a number of factors, one of the most important being the crew’s travel time from home to place of work. Attendance at the rescue helicopters will mean that the crew is present on the base at all times and that the journey time thus falls completely away. The response time is also dependent on other factors, some that we can influence, such as locations, equipment, etc., and others that we cannot influence, such as the weather, the complexity of the mission, waiting for other resources, etc. In order to get the Sun in place in 2004, we need to make some compromises, including: as regards temporary premises pending new ones being planned. Despite this, the goal is to cope with a response time of 15 minutes in most cases already starting next year. Detailed requirements for the service will be agreed between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence. When the accompaniment guard operates with optimised procedures at appropriate locations and with appropriate helicopter equipment, it is aimed at a response time of not more than 15 minutes. However, it must be such that the pilot-in-command and the crew are always able to take the necessary time to prepare the assignment so that it can be properly and safely carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e901	I would first like to thank the Minister of Justice for a good answer. I clearly see that the level of ambition is precise and correct, especially when the Minister of Justice says that we are aiming for a maximum response time of 15 minutes. Then I think the minister has put the list at the level you need. It also means that this is in line with the level of ambition that Stortinget had last spring when St.meld. No 44 were treated. This means and requires, at my discretion, a close and good dialogue between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence, which may be a challenge, but I think the Minister of Justice will deal with it in an excellent way. But the question to the Minister of Justice will be as follows: How can you be sure that you are actually doing this? Do you want to keep statistics on that? Would you like to go in and look at the log rather than find out what kind of deviations occur, and how to further improve the service along the way?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e910	The representative has clearly understood what the goal is. At the same time, I have said that we are not quite at the maximum now. That's why we're going to have to operate after optimum, where we're going to assume that a response time of 15 minutes is going to be what happens in most cases already from the start. The representative asks us how we can make sure of that. We can ensure what the representative himself suggests, in close dialogue between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence and between those responsible for the general functioning of the rescue services and those who serve, among others. The 330-square drone. It is my general impression that the dialogue capability is well developed between practitioners in this region. It's not always that it's in many areas. But in this landscape, it's my impression that people who work so closely with each other, and people who have such a close relationship with the special nature of the mission, are also developing something that I have at least perceived as a positive corps spirit, to say it that way. If I were to register that the body spirit was not positive, I should of course think carefully about how I can help it to be that way. But I'm assuming that it is, and I'm also assuming that we're going to have a good dialogue with the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e917	I thank you again for a good and excellent answer. I thought I would round off for my own part asking about something that goes on appropriate helicopter equipment, since the minister in his first answer said that it was one of the prerequisites for getting down to the maximum response time. My question is then quite simply: can the Minister of Justice now assure us that Storting's wish for progress following the replacement of today's rescue helicopter fleet is where it should be?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e924	The government has touched on this issue in the budget proposal and said that we will come back to concrete aspects of that matter later in the autumn, and we will. I assume we should be able to do what is necessary to relieve the Sea-King at a time when safety is still safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e932	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘Many patients who have been treated abroad paid by billions abroad experience that Norwegian hospitals and outpatients are refusing to follow up the patients needed in Norway. What can the Council of State do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e941	From the arrangement of the patient bridge to the rest of the world, in some cases problems have arisen in order to make the necessary follow-up of patients in Norwegian hospitals. This applies to patients with different diseases and diagnoses, but especially in cases where there have been professional discussions about the treatment that has been carried out. In particular, it has become applicable when the scheme is now wound up in its present form but continues as a responsibility for regional health enterprises. In St. prp. No 74 for 2002-2003, cf. Inner. S. No 285 for 2002–03, it has been suggested that no new patients will be included in the competence projects of the Swedish National Agency for Strategies in addition to those who have received treatment per year. 15 June 2003. Regional health establishments were informed about this in letter of 22 July this year. All patients who have received a letter from the Swedish Anti-Fraud Office with reference to assessment and/or treatment abroad before that date shall implement it. Any new references to treatment abroad after this date must be financed by each regional health enterprise. In the project, it has been a prerequisite that the patients referred to should not be deleted from waiting lists in Norwegian hospitals until they had completed their treatment. The Ministry asked the regional health companies, in cooperation with the National Agency for Disease Control, to ensure that the repatriation of patients was planned in a way that both meets the need for continuity in the treatment of the individual patient and at the same time contributes to the development of competence in Norway. The Ministry has also asked the National Agency for Health to inform regional health companies of the practical aspects of the repatriation of patients. The government has, as is well known, proposed the extension of the patient rights law, so that treatment abroad will also be relevant. This proposal is now under discussion in Stortinget. Here the Government has proposed that regional health businesses should be given a clearer responsibility wherever the treatment is carried out. The law on patient rights is proposed to extend to patients who are currently likely to be treated abroad under arrangements governed by the Swedish Law § 5 to 22 or be covered over the patient bridge. It has been proposed that the same priorities and the same right to necessary health care will apply wherever patients are treated. This will make it clear that the treatment provided in such a context abroad cannot be considered in any other way in the case of post-treatment than if it had been carried out in another Norwegian hospital. For me, it has been important that through this change we will ensure that the responsibility is clearly assigned, and there will also be no grey zone between what is the task of the Rikstrøgdeverket and what is the business. At the same time, we recognise that Norway, with our modest population, cannot and should not have absolutely all highly specialised medical services – we will continue to use competences in other countries, and through this we will also build up our own professional environments. Finally, let me say that the hospitals that referred patients to treatment abroad also have a responsibility for the further treatment system when this is to be done under the direction of healthcare companies. This requires good cooperation, where hospitals have to know a special responsibility to get this done, and I know that regional health companies will be positive and will take care of the intentions of the representative John I. Alvheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e958	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that the Department has done its part of the job here. Obviously, many hospitals have not taken this information seriously from the ministry. I am sorry that I again found it necessary to raise this question – I had a similar question for not a long time back – about patients who have been treated abroad with reimbursement from Norwegian authorities, who meet the wall or little understanding at some Norwegian hospitals and outpatient clinics, not all. The starting point for this question is a woman who has been treated in Germany with a surgical intervention in the back and who needed to remove some prosthetic material after a certain period of time. The patient approached his own hospital in Oslo, but was rejected and refused to go back to Germany to get the prosthesis material taken out. The patient had no objection to this, but the patient was informed that the costs of this had to be borne by the patient himself. My follow-up question to the Minister of Health will then be: Does the Minister of Health think that it is acceptable that Norwegian hospitals reject the follow-up of necessary treatment for Norwegian patients who have been treated abroad with reimbursement from popular protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e969	I do not want and cannot go into the specific matter of representative John I. Alvheim now refers to. But I have to say, no matter where the treatment has taken place, it's important that the patient is well cared for. Some of the methods and tools used are so special that it can make monitoring and follow-up problematic in Norway. This applies, inter alia, to: some osteosynthesis materials, which may make it relevant that the removal of such material must also be carried out in a foreign hospital. In our view, such follow-up, even if it is to be done abroad, will also be the responsibility of regional health businesses according to the bill that is now in Stortinget. Until it has been dealt with and implemented, it is my opinion that health businesses need to find flexible solutions for the few but important individuals involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e976	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I will pursue it further in the system. We now have some Norwegian patients, especially some anorexia patients, who have received authorisation for treatment abroad, but this treatment cannot be completed before 1 January 2004, according to an individual plan. These patients were reported to have been told to discontinue treatment at this time. Does the Minister of Health believe it is right and proper that patients who have received authorised treatment abroad should discontinue such treatment because of a lack of coverage at a special budget line in the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e983	We are in a transitional period between the patient bridge and a regular extension of responsibility for healthcare companies. During such a transitional period, I believe that good solutions must be found to ensure continuity of treatment for the individual patient. Continuity may mean continuing to purchase services abroad for the patient concerned if there is no capacity and competence in Norway, or it may mean taking the patient back to Norway and providing a follow-up treatment system there. But one of the parts should happen in the case where one has actually initially considered that there is a need for a treatment facility that lasts longer than the patient bridge, as we have now arranged.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e991	I have the following questions for our Minister of Health: ‘In Arendal, a popular uprising has begun against the construction of the hospital in the city. Harm is enormous among the inhabitants of the entire East-Agder against the plans to, among other things, weaken emergency preparedness. You're also very upset that the heart centre is at risk of being located elsewhere than at Arendal Hospital. Now many fear for the future of the hospital. Will the Council of State guarantee that the hospital services in Arendal are not being destroyed and that a full emergency response is maintained as is the case in the hospital today?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1000	Let me make it clear: there is no reason to fear for the future of Arendal Hospital – the hospital will pass. The population of Arendal and its surroundings will be ensured a sound supply of specialist health services both in the short and long term. There is a process in place in Health South to improve the exploitation of the total resources available to the region. It is part of the mission of the new health reform. Based on the merger of hospitals in East-Agder and West-Agder to Sørlanden Hospital HF and the requirement for economic balance, a wide range of investigation work has been undertaken to identify the alternative work distribution between all hospitals in the health company. According to Health Sør RHF, a proposal for a strategy plan for the Southern Hospital is to be submitted to the board meeting of the healthcare company on 8 December this year. This proposal is then submitted for consultation to all interested parties before a decision is taken at the Management Board meeting of the health undertaking on 29 January 2004. I assume that decisions on major structural changes and/or functional distribution between the hospitals in the districts will be dealt with by the board of Health South of the RHF. When a decision is available in Health South, I will consider whether the case should also be dealt with at the business meeting, as the Health Business Act states. If a decision was to be taken on changes to the emergency response at Arendal Hospital, I will carefully consider this decision, inter alia. against the guidelines on emergency preparedness adopted by the Storting. As regards the establishment of a heart centre in Health South, outside Oslo, there is a decision in Health South to add such a centre to the Arendal Hospital. According to Health Sør, there are no plans to amend this Decision. However, it may take some time before the heart center is realized. So I can assure you that so far there are no decisions that will in any way change the provision of specialist health services to the population of the Arendals region. If such decisions are taken, I will ensure that there is no going beyond the strict requirements of professional safety that have been laid down and the guidelines drawn up by the Stortinget. Communicating about the need for development and migration is very demanding — also because changes are perceived locally as threatening, as a step towards closure. There are many different issues that could have been addressed, such as how processes are carried out in interaction with the political environments locally and regionally, communication with local communities and with their own employees, etc. However, I choose to believe that the most important thing is that we take people seriously, they are afraid that they will no longer be offered properly – especially in emergency situations. We need to understand that and meet even better than today. Hospitals are in such an absolute sense in a sector where trust is crucial, because security is not possible without trust. Therefore, contact and communication with the environment, as I described it, is crucial here as well, and I want to be concerned about the future of the company paying sufficient attention to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1017	I thank the Council of State so much for the answer and am very pleased that he will consider very carefully what is going on in Health South in the future. In its reply, the Council of State says: ‘If a decision was to be taken on changes in emergency response at Arendal Hospital, I will carefully consider this decision, including: against the guidelines on emergency preparedness adopted by the Storting.» This is not a very clear answer to my question in relation to what I wanted. Emergency preparedness is central to maintaining a fully-fledged hospital offer. The Minister of Health has stated in the oral question procedure today that ‘a proper emergency service’ should be provided in all hospitals. Then is my follow-up question: Is it reasonable if the emergency response at Sørlanden Hospital in Arendal might be impaired?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1027	I stand for what I said in the oral question procedure also in relation to this specific matter. It shall be an appropriate emergency medical offer also for the population of the Arendals region. I repeat what I said in my main response, that this hospital should pass. I repeat that I take responsibility for following up on what structural proposals had to come up and be adopted in Health South in relation to the statements I have made here, and the guidelines that the Storting has drawn up in the emergency message. I am asking for understanding that the hospital reform, as the Progress Party has often pointed out, is a responsibility reform, and it will completely powder the responsibility in the system if I went out in advance and decided what kind of decisions were allowed to discuss, and what was not allowed to discuss in the boards of health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1032	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am still a little concerned about the uncertainties, but have an understanding of the Council of State's assessment of how this should be dealt with by him. But I would like once again to show that this emergency response is also mentioned in a letter that the Council of State has received from the Aust-Agder County Council, which he has probably seen, pointing out that Arendal Hospital must not be a b-sych hospital. We can't accept that. It is a unanimous assembly which stands behind the letter dated 31 October. I must almost once again be allowed to ask questions: Is it in the Council's response that he primarily wants the emergency response at Arendal Hospital to be able to pass as it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1041	If the representative Torbjørn Andersen had listened attentively to what I said, he would have realized that I am actually concerned that the Arendals region should have a full hospital, and that that region should have functions on behalf of a larger upland than just the hospital's own natural entrance area. But I'm asking for respect for not being able to describe in detail what the future division of tasks will be like in a Question Time in Stortinget. I have issued some principal statements that I will govern after. I have also said that I will be in charge, and that should be sufficient at least for the representative Andersen and perhaps also for the county council, which I have registered as having written a letter, to assume that it will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1051	My question to the Minister of Health is as follows: ‘In the revised national budget, the Government announced that it would return to the State budget on the structural changes in health enterprises. Those who expected the State budget to invite the Stortinget to a broad debate on current structural changes in health businesses were disappointed. How will the Council of State involve Stortinget in the issues of the closure of food departments and emergency preparedness?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1060	The main reason for the hospital reform was the need to manage structural decisions in a good way. It was a recognition that, in the old system of ownership, 19 different owners did not have the strength to organise the service based on the development of medicine. It is important to recognise and take the consequences of changing society. This applies not least to highly competent hospitals. Medical technology is in continuous development, fortunately. Changes should and must be made, because the subjects and opportunities evolve. The same thing makes it possible to communicate. The requirements for professional behaviour and operation also require conversion. What was professionally sound ten years ago can be out of date and hence irresponsible today. On a number of occasions, the Storing has dealt with documents from the Government that deal with professional development and what strategies the Government has seen as right to meet it. A very central condition of the debate has been to reconcile the professionally good service with the service available. It has been important — and important — in Norway because of its geography. I refer to key health policy documents such as the Roadmap for Mental Health, National Cancer Plan, the Communication ‘Accessibility and Skills’ and the Emergency Communication. These documents are based on this very central premise in the formulation of Norwegian health policy. The size has dealt with these documents and joined the main conclusions in them. Among other things, Stortinget has decided that food supply in Norway should be differentiated and decentralised. Furthermore, it is decided that the standard number of health care services should be used to determine whether an offer is to be built up as a maternity centre, a maternity ward or a women’s clinic. In the context of the unanimous decision of the Storting to make the leveling of the Health Authority applicable to the planning and organisation of maternity care, a National Council for Paternity Care has been established. The mandate of the Council shall include, inter alia: assisting in the conversion processes, ensuring the quality and evaluation of operations through decentralised and differentiated maternity care. I have formulated these provisions as a management message to regional health businesses. Your task has been to answer this question. The proposed changes in food supply, by turning some of the smallest birth wards with less than 300 births per year into midwifery institutions, and in some cases being prepared for acute cesarean cuts, are a realization of the leadership of the Stortinget in the treatment of emergency messages in spring 2001. At the business meetings we held in June 2003, a number of conditions were laid down for the implementation by regional health businesses of the planned changes. I asked for evidence that they had been fulfilled by 1 November. I have now received that, and I have also briefed the Stortinget in St. prp. No 1 for 2003-2004. If my assessment is that the proposed changes are within the decisions taken earlier by the Stortinget, I will not take it as natural that the Stortinget should be presented for consideration and discussion. It will be to invite the Stortinget to a rematch on decisions that have been made, and I agree otherwise. On the other hand, I have presented a part of the budget proposal that is planned and reported, explaining the process of conversion that is going on. It allows the Storting to report back, on a general basis, on the content of the policy and the form of communication with the Stortinge in these important cases. Of course, I'd like to follow up on that, as the majority of the Biggest wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1073	I note that the Council of State will not draw the Storting more into these questions. It is clear that he then assumes a heavy responsibility to manage the centralisation that is now taking place in the hospital sector. The situation is that health boards are now preparing a cut that involves significant structural changes. Then I find out that the Minister of Health has said earlier today that he has asked the directors of the health regions to wait for final decisions until the Stortinge has taken its budgetary decisions. This must mean that the Minister of Health sees that increasing funds will mean fewer and less structural changes. The question is then: how does it relate to what the health minister has said in the past that it is not the economy that is to govern the structure of the hospital sector, it is only the professional assessments that are to be made?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1080	I am asking that the representative Haga stick to correct representations of what I have actually said. I have not said that I will not draw the Storting more into these matters, on the contrary. We've had a debate here in the Chamber about how we could do it. My proposal was that I should present a plan and notification part as part of the state budget, where I would explain the current processes. Other members of the Government have also explained here in the Chamber that that is what we wanted to do. We have. In fact, the part of the plan and the notification is now in the Social Committee. There is also the budget. There are framework conditions for 2004, and there is also evidence that the challenges facing businesses are both of a professional and economic nature. I've never said that they're just of a professional nature. I have given that answer in relation to specific cases where this was the case, inter alia. in the context of the Lærdal Food Department. But that it's a general migration challenge, which also has to do with the requirement to balance the economy, I've never hidden it. It is clear that I am recording that there is a discussion about whether those requirements are too tough here in Stortinget. It is the right of the Storting to conduct such a discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1085	In the extension of the last Council of State, the estimates we received from the Ministry of Finance say that the forecast of accumulated efficiency requirements is NOK 3 billion. So that's what the Minister of Health is now demanding for the hospitals. I cannot help but understand that the massive efficiency requirement must mean one of three things: either the Minister of Health believes that there is so much dead meat around the hospitals that it is possible to cut it, or he must think that it is okay that the service provision is getting worse, and that the consequence is that emergency preparedness has to be put down in food departments, or then the Minister of Health has lost in government. My question to the Minister of Health is: Which of these three assessments is correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1090	The President would point out that ‘bread’ is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1093	I cannot rule out the presence of the type of organic material in the hospitals. I would also like to point out that it is clear that there is a potential for efficiency in hospitals. [[Laughter]] Anyone who has attended a hospital reports that there are major organisational challenges, including: We're getting feedback on that in all patient studies. In fact, the National Audit Office has also pointed it out quite recently. The figures to which Mr Haga refers have been added by the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Finance, which then assigned them to the Finance Committee. Nor are they unknown to the Social Committee, for they were presented to the Social Committee at an open hearing shortly back. It is the health enterprises’ own assessment of the migration challenge we face. I believe that we have provided a proper treatment for the hospitals, based on adding more money, but also on imposing increased efficiency requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1106	‘At the Management Board meeting on 6 October 2003, the Hospital Inland adopted substantial changes in the division of tasks between the hospitals in Oppland and Hedmark. With the "new" structure, for example: The emergency response in Lillehammer is greatly reduced. Patients from the Nord-Gudbrand valley in need of emergency medical treatment will be referred to Gjøvik or Hamar. It is well known that the shortest possible route to an emergency hospital can be lifesaving for the patient. How do the Councils of State view this problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1113	It is right that the representative, Mr. Enger, points out that time is one of the essential elements in saving the lives of acutely ill or injured patients. In fact, time is so central that in most cases it will take too long to wait with treatment until the patient arrives in a hospital. Life-saving and stabilising treatment must be initiated where the patient is present when the injury or disease occurs. The development of medical technology and treatment methods, combined with the possibilities of communicating, allows diagnostics and treatment that had previously taken place in hospitals to be initiated by the ambulance staff, under the direct guidance of hospital specialists. No progress has been made within hospitals either. What was professionally recognised treatment methods and appropriate organisation only a few years ago now has other professional requirements and expectations, which requires new ways of organising the offer. This applies, for example: in the event of damage, where the Inland Hospital has decided to make changes to the division of tasks between the hospitals, so that the Inland Gjøvik Hospital is the centre of major damage in the Mjøs area. It is well recognised in the surgical disciplines that proper harm treatment requires surgeons to treat a relatively high number of patients in order to receive adequate training. The technical advice says that for severely damaged patients, so-called multi-dreams, it has been assessed as sound with a transport time of up to two hours, provided that the pre-hospital services, i.e. ambulances and local medical services, etc., ensure proper stabilisation before transport. These are patients who need well-qualified assistance from several different specialities and who thus need to have parallel security teams in place. For the Hospital Inland, it is a central element of the solution that is now being presented, that while there are changes in emergency functions in hospitals, the prehospital services are also strengthened. Elements of this include, for example: assembly of a joint AMK centre for both states and integration of the air ambulance service, stationed at Dombås, with the other ambulance service. As regards the specific change to which the Hospital Inland refers, Lillehammer shall continue to have extensive emergency functions. There will be no change for internal medicine after the scheme, and there will still be orthopaedic vigilance. Bleeding surgery will be transferred from Lillehammer to Gjøvik, and there will be a collection of parts of the surgery, in subspecialities such as urology and car surgery, in Hamar. Because the hospital in Lillehammer will still have a wide range of emergency services, it is suggested in surgical division that one should still have a menstrual surgeon in Lillehammer 24 hours a day, so that the emergency services can be maintained. Lillehammer should continue to have breast diagnostic centre with mother/endocrine surgery. Otherwise, there will be no elective soft tissue surgery in Lillehammer and, in the case of acute insertions, it will be assessed whether patients should be transferred from Lillehammer to Gjøvik in the case of acute conditions requiring soft tissue surgery. Similar distributions in surgery were carried out between the hospitals in Elverum, which received orthopaedic, and Hamar, who received soft tissue surgery, several years ago. The main difference now is that by establishing Gjøvik as a centre for injury, a complete surgical treatment provision in this area will be ensured. This is also a multi-site development, which is necessary in order to provide patients with professionally sound and modern treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1126	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree with a lot of what he said: the ambulance service can provide lifesaving treatment, and it must start right away. And there we are at my next question, which concerns the other side of the problem. When the emergency receivers are put down or become less good, they get a weakened preparedness. Then you also have to think about the ambulance service. Inland ambulance services are now lurking, and it would certainly be natural to reorganise it before making the major functional changes to which it is now being added. In ambulance transport from the North Gudbrand valley to Hamar, it now takes three hours to get to the emergency room. It can be of vital importance. Now the Council of State suggests that there should be good prehospital services, and then I really have to ask: is there any proper consideration of the impaired emergency response in the case of structural changes in hospitals, and what is done to empower the ambulance staff?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1133	The representative, Mr. Enger and I clearly agree that we need to see the overall services in the context: what happens outside during transportation, before going to the hospital, and what happens inside the hospital. And as I explained in my first answer, medical and technological developments have come to the point that much more can, should and must happen along the way. The strengthening of prehospital services is therefore essential. My opinion is that the Hospital Inland has just put the search light on it. They include: to reorganise the AMK centre and integrate the air ambulance with the other ambulance services, which, in my view, will contribute to strengthening the prehospital services. I fully agree that this must be a strong focus in the implementation process.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1140	I thank you again for the answer and realize that there is not that long distance between us. My last follow-up question concerns the Gjøvik maternity ward. I realized from the answer to Alvheim instead that there were promising signals from the Council of State about this. Among other things, stated that the Gjøvik maternity ward has about twice as many births as it is – we will use the word – minimum requirements. It is a large region, and there is a young population in this area. I am also aware that the Council of State has taken decisions elsewhere in the country if he believes that centralisation has been too strong. We have a press release from the election campaign where it is actually said that the food supply in Health East is to be decided at a business meeting. And the corporate meeting is your council. So I'd like to ask the Council of State if he's going to prejudge the passing of events a little bit, because this meeting is tomorrow: the signals that I realized he was giving to Alvheim were the positive enough for the Gjøvik maternity ward to last?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1147	I thank you for the invitation to hold the business meeting here. I will resist that temptation, although I must admit and confess that I am strongly tempted to draw the conclusion here. Now I'm going to meet the municipalities in Uppland tomorrow, and I don't think it's right to sum up that case until I get all the views on the table that I've asked for. But I can say that so far I've seen that the arguments for maintaining the maternity ward at Gjøvik seem to be a lot stronger than the arguments for shutting it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1155	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘The management of the health company Blefjell hospital proposes to shut down the surgical department and the emergency services at Rjukan hospital in Telemark. This is clearly contrary to Storting’s assumption of a decentralised hospital offer. Will the Council of State ensure that these plans are not implemented?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1164	Many and long professional investigations have been carried out on both food supply and emergency services that are now being taken into account in the work of health firms. Such offers are considered to be a specific security value for a community and naturally generate strong enough commitment to change processes. It also concerns the assessment of the emergency medical response in Rjukan. I have asked Health South to explain the matter. The starting point has been to carry out analyses of different organisational models of the emergency medical response and total capacity of the health business. Several models have been discussed along the way in this process within the entity. The model to which Molvik refers did not go further by the company. I can confirm that the following recommendation has been submitted to the Management Board: All operating sites of the health company, including Rjukan, retain emergency medical function. In the model submitted to the Management Board, the operating site Rjukan will be open 24 hours a day throughout the year, with specialists in internal medicine, anaesthetics, access to acute x-rays and laboratory functions, and with nurses competent in emergency treatment. Health South believes that the model used in setting up the Board of Directors is in line with the emergency message and the position of the Social Committee on emergency medical preparedness. Health Sør says that there are no significant changes to the emergency response at Rjukan Hospital. If such changes are decided on, I will carefully assess them against the guidelines drawn up by the Storting in that treatment. It is required to focus on the migration and functional distribution of hospitals. Initially, not all hospitals can operate with everything. This leads to too little volume and thus goes beyond the quality of the population. We need to look for solutions that ensure both functional distribution and a well-decentralised hospital service. Regional health enterprises shall provide good health services in accordance with the objectives of their health policy. It's a basic value that we still have to take care of. I am aware that the Board of Health Blefjell Hospital yesterday decided to postpone the so-called savings plan, both to ensure better involvement of employees and to await the budgetary procedure in Stortinget. Communicating about the need for development and migration is demanding, also because changes are perceived locally as threatening, and it can easily be interpreted as a step towards closure. I believe that we all share a shared responsibility for not always starting with the extremes when it starts processes on the future health service. We need to be confident that professionals and health business administrators are also committed to facilitating the best possible provision of health care for the population. But trust must be mutual and also established by health businesses through good processes. There's probably a lot of the challenge here. Processes are time-consuming because we need to ensure involvement and thus provide a basis for trust. I interpret it so that the board of Health Blefjell wants more time to just carry out good processes and thus arrive at good conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1177	I thank the Council of State for the answer and am very pleased that it may seem that the plans to put an end to the emergency medical emergency are at least temporarily gone. However, it is such that relatively significant cuts are carried out on Rjukan Hospital, including: 20 posts shall be lost and there may be a basis for claiming that the significant reductions planned and proposed at Rjukan can be in line with the overall policy objectives expressed, inter alia, by the Commission. i Ot. pp. No 66 for 2000-2001, on the Health Business Act, etc., where it states: ‘The aim of the reform is to improve healthcare from the patient’s point of view. In this context, the objective is to improve both the content and accessibility of healthcare.’ As I see it, accessibility is also about geographic distances and proximity. Does the Minister of Health think that the health company Blefjell Hospital improves patients’ access to health services with the proposed closures, if they have changed anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1189	I think it is important to stress that security and trust must be based on at least two important assumptions. One is that the offer is sufficiently close where the population lives. That's why we need a decentralised offer, and that's why we need the local hospitals. It must also be based on the fact that the offer actually maintains professional objectives and high enough quality, taking into account the tearing medical development. It is also a crucial condition for security and trust. Having said that, I would like to ask the representative Molvik to understand that the Health Minister, who is a business meeting in Health South, cannot go in and think in detail about individual proposals that are under investigation at the most local level in the health business system. The size must have reasonable confidence in the fact that the Minister of Health is dealing with the system as decided by the Stortinget. That system also makes me responsible for ensuring that the final decisions are consistent with the Storting assumptions. And I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1196	I thank you for the answer and respect for the last part of the answer, that one should at least wait until the decision is taken, before the Minister of Health enters. The plans now in place for Rjukan are seen as a kind of first step on the way to hospitalization in Rjukan, both among employees and among the population. According to the media in Telemark, when the health minister visited Telemark earlier this fall, he was relatively clear that he would not accept the hospital in Rjukan to be laid down. The question to the Council of State is then: Does the Minister of Health insist on this promise, and will he also guarantee today that the hospital in Rjukan will be maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1203	The Health Minister still remembers relatively well, and I remember very well what words I chose in connection with the heated debate that was at that time on the basis of the position of some investigative groups, such as. I was going to lay down the local hospitals. I then expressed that I thought that kind of proposal was an expression of imaginative centralism. Those are strong words, but I stand for them in this Chamber as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1211	‘The health business authorities propose changes in the hospital structure and functional distribution due to saving requirements. These structural changes create more centralised hospital services, and the rural population feels insecure about losing their services. Does the Council of State consider that adequate professional considerations underpin the proposals for the restructuring of the specialist health service currently available?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1218	It is important to be concrete and precise in the debate on structural changes and functional distribution in hospitals, because we are really debating sketches, ideas, scenarios and final decisions about each other as if everything were final decisions. Several important debates in the United Kingdom on key issues relating to the quality of services have identified worksharing among hospitals as an important tool for improving treatment outcomes. Progressing organisational processes to improve quality and also optimise the use of resources in the hospital sector has been an important objective for more reform measures in the health sector, including the hospital reform. I am pleased that we are now seeing concrete results from this work. For example, it has now been demonstrated that Norway is on its way up, from a low level of comfortable grounding in Europe, in terms of the proportion of women with breast cancer who are undergoing breast-feeding surgery. A recently published report from SINTEF Unimed reports that the proportion of thoracic surgery has increased from 25 pst. in 2000 to 42 pst. in 2002. In Sweden it is for comparison over 60 pst. which is given such a treatment. In those areas of medicine where there is a documented link between volume and quality, it is not only positive that there is a functional distribution and a centralisation. It's actually required that this happen. And it's female discriminating that it doesn't happen. The functional distribution issues I have been presented to, which have been dealt with in regional business meetings, have also had the starting point and aim of improving patient treatment. In these cases, concerning emergency preparedness and food supply at small hospitals, a strict balance must be made between different quality aspects. On the one hand, the volume of services has to be high and staff have sufficient practical experience to perform a proper service. On the other hand, this shall be balanced against the need for available services in acute situations and the experience of safety in order to obtain qualified assistance in an emergency medical situation. Closeness and accessibility are in themselves an important quality factor, but it is not the only one. There may be a difficult balance between important aspects in order to ensure quality of service. Then we have the measures that have been presented in comments and proposals in the media from different teams in relation to budget and economics. Of course, there's reason to take the playback seriously, and I'll follow closely the development of plans. I cannot, as the responsible minister, deal with media play. I have to deal with completed proposals and specific decisions, and when I do, I will use the professional bodies I have at my disposal to assess the professional soundness of the proposals, as I did in connection with the business meetings in Health West and Health North in ours. Having said that, I share a concern as to whether the right balance has been found between the measures that are centralising in the specialist health service and those that involve a decentralisation and improved availability of services in our vast country. There's a lot of positive happening in this area, but I'm dedicated to strengthening the trends and opportunities available for more decentralised services.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1229	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer, and I will come back a little bit to some of what he talked about, in my second follow-up question. I would like to quote a little from what is in a case report from a health company: ‘For the population, significant reductions in today’s supply will be perceived as negative, with greater insecurity and time-consuming/congestive travel for patients and relatives. One may also assume that in some cases increased distances and travel times will lead to an increased risk for patients. Against this background, we would want to maintain today’s offer in isolation, combined with a gradual improvement in the efficiency of both support services and primary tasks.’ So it's writing professionals in a distribution in one of our health companies. When the Minister of Health mentions, among others: women and breast-feeding, it is about specialities. I fully agree with the Minister of Health that specialities cannot be carried out anywhere in the country. [[The President clubs.]] My question is whether he understands people's concerns that local hospitals and emergency services around are in danger of being put down.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1245	The President will remind you that the question will come within the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1248	Yeah, I understand people's concerns. That is why I am very concerned that we should maintain a proper emergency medical offer and a decentralised food supply. But it's also about specialties. It's not that there are only breast cancer operations that require specialists. It also makes an emergency medical response. The challenge is that within surgery we've got a disintegration into specialties that makes it no longer enough to have a general surgeon in place. General surgeons are unfortunately a dying breed. You have to be a specialist in each of your surgery, and it makes it hard to maintain a decentralised offer. I am concerned – and I want to have a dialogue with the Medical Association on this – about how we can reverse this development, this fragmentation of the subjects, this twig specialization, because border specialization is an already passed stage. This long-term race I have begun.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1255	90 pst. patients admitted to a local hospital have quite common diseases, which do not need to be treated at a high medical level. You don't need specialists for that treatment. It is a good thing in heart operations, some cancer operations and AIDS treatment, for example. need special departments to deal with this. The safety of people around our vast country is linked to the fact that the hospital is there and that most people can get help for the most common diseases. This applies to the elderly, the chroniclers, etc. If this offer disappears, people feel really insecure about it. In the oral question this morning, the Minister for Health said that these structural changes should not be implemented until the final adoption of the State budget. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1262	And then that was the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1265	Yes. I am a little surprised that the Minister for Health is presenting a budget for his sector in which he really wants more money than what he wants in a way. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1270	I have to say with all due respect for the questioner that he is in completely wild ways when he tries to make it so that he comes to the hospital for something other than specialist treatment. Because that's what hospitals do. If you need treatment with a general practitioner, you go to a general practitioner. If you need special treatment, you go to the specialist health service, and that's what hospitals do. So until what I have to think of as the underlying question in the representative of the last remark. I have submitted a budget that I believe is perfectly sound and which I believe should be implemented. However, I have the respect for the Storting and the treatment of the State budget, that I do not think it would be right to assume that all aspects of that budget are adopted and can be implemented before the Stortinge has actually completed the budget. I think that was appreciated in this Chamber. The opposite, I think, would have triggered much stronger reactions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1280	I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following simple questions: ‘How can it be defended that reorganization from the maternity ward to the midwifery nursery should be a better offer for the birthers than food supply with gynecologists present?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1287	As the representative, Enoksen, of course, is aware, there are clear national leaders in the organisation of the food supply. In the context of the processing of the emergency message, promoted by the central government and dealt with in the Stortinget while the representative Enoxsen was a member of the Stortinget and the parliamentary leader of the Central Party, the Stortinget stressed that the organisation of maternity care should be decentralised and differentiated, and that the National Health Authority’s proposal for the classification of maternity care should be made applicable for the planning and organisation of this part of healthcare. The three levels are female clinic, maternity ward and maternity ward. For each level, staffing, preparedness and birth rates are required. A female clinic shall have at least 1500 births in the impact field. Gynecologist and anesthesiologist and neonatal intensive care unit shall be present. A maternity ward shall have at least 400-500 births. Gynecologist and anesthesiologist shall be on standby and a pediatrician shall be associated. A maternity ward shall have at least 40 births and guardianship of midwifery. The Social Committee has pointed out that the figures should not be absolute. The quality and safety requirements for patients must be the starting point for the organisation of food supply. There is a medical justification behind today’s leveling-up of medically justified medically relevant medical developments, staffing requirements and recruitment, and that maternity wards providing surgical birth assistance should have a minimum of birth control in order to maintain the necessary skills and skills, not only in the medical specialist but also in the other staff. The lower limit of 400–500 births for maternity wards is otherwise low compared to other countries. I can mention that in Sweden this limit is set at 1000 births, which is considered a critical limit to maintaining adequate manning, training and competence. In order to maintain a food department with a satisfactory quality level, the requirements for standby for different personnel groups are relatively comprehensive. A maternity ward must ensure that 24 hours of Gynecologist’s watchkeeping is covered. According to today's requirements for the working environment and collective agreements, this means that a maternity ward must have at least four, preferably five competent gynaecologists who share the watch load. In many cases, the population base is so low that there will be no day work for so many gynecologists. So they will be practically ineffective in the daytime. The situation in many maternity wards today is marked by recruitment problems, large replacements of doctors and permanent substitute fats. This is difficult to operate but also has an impact on the quality of the offer. Therefore, the organisation of the food supply needs to be adapted to this reality. Therefore, the reorganisation from the Gynecologist's part of the Gynecologist's part of the labour force to the midwife's maternity ward may be a better offer for the birthers if the medical quality, staffing or preparedness requirements laid down by the Storting cannot be met. Rehabilitation of the small maternity wards that do not meet the required requirements to midwifery centres will meet both the need for professional quality and the need to have a decentralised food supply. Women in need of specialized birth care, and fortunately there are a minority, have to travel longer, but they are also guaranteed a food supply that meets professional requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1298	The background to my question is a decision on the board of Health North, and I would like to quote the following: ‘The available material indicates that the intentions of the decision’ — i.e. an enhanced feeding room prepared for acute operational redemption — ‘are not advisable. The establishment of an enhanced feeding room on the present basis could give the impression of a safety for those born who have good reason to ask professional questions.» Instead, a midwifery nursery will be established at the Hålogaland Hospital Narvik, a matter well known to the Minister of Health. I am also aware that the Minister of Health has given relatively clear instructions in relation to what he expects from the hospital in Hålogaland. So, based on the statement the Minister of Health now gave, the perfectly correct description of the criteria used by Stortinget, I cannot see the Minister of Health in any other way than that the thinking on the basis of the Health Nord Board does not share the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1308	The matter the representative of Enoxsen now refers to is a matter that has been dealt with by me in the business meeting in June this year. I then made several assumptions that needed to be in place so that a change could be made from a maternity ward to an enhanced midwifery nursery. What I have registered, without having yet got into the matter thoroughly enough, is that the assumptions so far have been difficult to fully meet. I have been told by the board of Health Nord that I will study thoroughly before giving a feedback to Health Nord about how they will follow up this further. But it is my clear intention that the assumptions that were made for this conversion should also be realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1313	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. I have a pile with a significant press coverage of this matter. It appears that the intentions of the Minister of Health at the Enterprise Meeting were not initially met by the Health Nord Board, which apparently would not meet the demands of the Minister of Health. I assume, on the basis of what the Minister of Health has now said, and on the basis of the signals given by the surgeons at the hospital in Narvik, that one will be able to assist with, among other things. section of the emperor, that the Minister of Health is following up and ensuring that the requirements he has set are met.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1320	It is my clear intention to deal with this matter, that the assumptions made by the company meeting should be followed up. It's not my impression that there's a question of the will of Health North. It is more a question of how far you have come to actually be able to implement the kind of assumptions that I made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1328	I will ask the Minister for Health the following question: ‘Health enterprises are required to make further changes and shifts in the service provision in the 2004 government budget. Now it is announced that health businesses will divide and compartment the business, among other things. by bringing together different professional specialities. This will tear up good, established chain of interaction, among others. weaken emergency preparedness in the case of an emergency hospital that is currently fully in place. What will the Council of State do to prevent this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1337	It is not clear from the representative's question which measures it is aimed at, so I have to answer in general, but I will try to exemplify my answer. Measures have been in place for a long time to create larger and more robust professional environments within enterprises. For example, health centre Norway has established joint hospital management for hospitals in several disciplines within the same enterprise. There will be important measures to establish better professional networks, to ensure the dissemination of skills and thus to improve the quality of professional work. In some contexts it may also be important and appropriate to bring together trade union specialists in one place to increase the quality of the offer. As I suggested in my reply to the representative, Mrs Schjälaa, according to the overall leadership of the Storting, a number of measures are now being taken to increase the quality of treatment in certain disciplines. I mentioned the example of breast surgery. In several areas, there is a positive link between volume and quality, and it is an important dimension of a good quality hospital provision that treatment provides good and preferably optimal medical results. I receive e.g. not many protests from patients who have to go a long way to the Rikshospital or to the Radium Hospital – when they know that those who are being offered treatment for a special disease condition or who have to undergo a particularly demanding treatment – because they recognise that the highly specialised competence cannot be available throughout the country. With regard to the organisation of emergency preparedness in small hospitals, there is a very important question, where different dimensions of quality have to be weighed, which I have had in several of the answers in today's Question Time. It is the balance between the quality that can actually be obtained with a specialised offer of a small patient volume, where the local professional community does not gain practical experience, assessed against the safety of a hospital with a wide range of services, which is crucial to the population. At the same time, proximity is an important dimension of quality and safety. It is necessary to define clearly which emergency functions should be covered by a local hospital, not least within the surgical disciplines. The Ministry will continue to work on this in future, in cooperation with, inter alia: The Norwegian Medical Association. Interactions between different institutions and levels will be ensured through mechanisms other than those possible by entering the status quo. This is why we recently appointed a separate sample that goes through responsibilities for interaction between primary and specialist health services, among others. with a view to supporting the most effective action for good interaction in order to improve the framework conditions between service levels. With regard to the 2004 draft budget, I would like to point out that implementing structural changes is not the only way to achieve an efficiency requirement. What I'm adding to the budget is, first of all, to focus on a better and more conscious priority. Patients who need the most should be offered treatment first. The proposal to reduce the ISF rate from 60 pst. to 40 pst. reflects this. In my view, the debate to which the Central Party is inviting, where structural measures and requirements for efficiency are being made, is a blank track that should not be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1352	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There's no blindtrack we're following here. We're dealing with this with making structural measures and improving efficiency into one and the same thing. It's happening around our country now, and that's why we want to take it up with the Minister of Health. There is a fragmentation of interaction chains in hospitals, where, for example: places orthopaedics in one place, soft surgery in another, neurology in a third, perhaps, and that fragmentation causes a bottled interplay chain and disciplines for the totality offer that should really be at a full hospital. This is very dangerous, not least because the emergency response will be gone. It's the one that's very important, and that's gone back in the questions here all the time. I want to ask the Council of State if he, based on what he has said about clearer defined emergency functions at the local hospitals, will stop what is happening now, before it is too late, and calm down part of the degradation and relocation of disciplines, so that we can get these requirements in place before anything happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1363	It is impossible for me to answer a question that is so general. I think the representative of Luttvold will acknowledge with more thought that the system I have to deal with is the system that Stortlinget has adopted. This means that the Stortinget draws up the framework conditions, and the Stortinget adopts the budgets. It is now in the hands of the Storting. The size of the population adopts the overall health policy leadership, and the Council of State governs it through business meetings. I cannot deal with the individual hospital wards and individual proposals through the Stortinges Question Time, whether they may be at the investigation stage or at the sketch stage. I will deal with the final decision, and I take responsibility for it, as I have said repeatedly today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1368	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I think it was very poor in relation to what was the main point here. The main point is concrete enough: to maintain an emergency response where people live, so that they have this security. As the Minister of Health himself has pointed out, security and proximity are important quality concepts here. I still have the same question: Does the Minister of Health think that one should be asking about a part of the reduction, division and sectionalisation that is going on professional mobility now, and gathering at various hospitals, so that one can feel that this with emergency preparedness is being properly cared for? At the same time, I agree with the Council of State in what he has said, among other things. on the generalist. I agree that some of the specialities need to be brought together. For example, the highest degree of competence is required. be at the Rikshospitalet and Radium Hospital. There's no disagreement. But that's keeping a basic unit of specialities that can interact, which is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1377	I choose to say it positively: I am committed to ensuring a decentralised and sound emergency response in Norway. It's a guideline that I'm following, and that I have from Stortingen's treatment of the emergency message. It would be directly irresponsible for me to accept the invitation to freeze the status quo in the hospitals and stop all conversion processes. Indeed, the size of the population has just decided that hospitals should carry out conversion processes in terms of food supply and emergency services. The size has called for more efficiency through the budgetary procedure. You may disagree with that, but it is, after all, the agreed framework conditions of the Storting that I, as Minister of Health, have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1388	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «Health Stavanger is one of many examples of job opportunities in 2004. The Director of Health Stavanger must remove 200 settings. He says to Stavanger Aftenblad that even faster printing practices must be evaluated. Does the Council of State believe that the municipal health service in different states today has the competence and resources to take over patient groups of hospitals does not have the means to deal with them, or will he take action to ensure greater health-care security for patients, relatives and members of the municipal health service?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1397	If the President permits this, I will use this opportunity in my last reply today to thank the Central Party for keeping the Minister of Health at work. Otherwise, I will reply as follows: Regional health establishments have overall responsibility for providing the population of the region with the necessary specialist health services in line with laws, regulations and administrative provisions and within a given financial framework. This responsibility could also lead to the need for individual health businesses to make the necessary adjustments in order to carry out the tasks assigned in the best possible way. However, this does not mean that patients or tasks for which the specialist healthcare service is responsible should be transferred to the local health service. Printout practices must and must be based on medical judgements and requirements of soundness. As regards the proposed measures in Health Stavanger, they include: based on the desire to optimise bedtime, taking into account that Health Stavanger has an average bedtime higher than the national average. The decision of the Management Board also provides that any decommissioning shall not alter the planned level of activity. Medical developments are leading to a constant shift and transfer of tasks between levels of treatment in healthcare. Conditions previously treated during hospitalisation can now be treated in day surgery or outpatient settings. Hospital conditions have also decreased, among other things. due to the development of medical technology which makes interventions less debilitating than before. More gentle treatment and provision of care services in homes and hospitals are for the benefit of patients. It's actually a decentralizing trend in medicine. The consequence is that municipalities are given more nurturing tasks than before, and in some cases also a transfer of specialised tasks. It is presented in a report published by the Health Care Authority in the municipalities. Nevertheless, the report, which came in October this year, shows that the extent of the problem is relatively limited. It is the decision-maker who is responsible for the necessary medical follow-up in the municipal health service after hospital discharge and who has a coordinating role in this respect in relation to the need for other types of services. The medical coverage in municipal health services has improved dramatically in recent years and is currently good, with the exception of some areas in Sogn and Fjordane, Nord-Trøndelag, Nordland and Finnmark. A continued increase in access to doctors is also expected in 2004. A number of measures have been put in place to facilitate better interaction between primary health services and specialist health services and to strengthen the decentralised service provision, in particular in relation to so-called grey-zone patients and in relation to the reception of pre-treated patients. The aim is to create an overall offer for the patient, with good continuity of treatment, and to stimulate treatment near the patient’s residence when it benefits the patient. In the light of the challenges we face in this area, I have taken the initiative to set up a public body to assess all aspects of possible instruments that can stimulate better interaction between different actors and levels of healthcare. I believe that the next major reform of healthcare needs to address the integration between the first-line service and the second-line service. I have great expectations for this sample. It also has solid representation from the local government sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1414	I thank you for your answer. It is good that the Minister of Health looks closer to this situation and also asks a selection to look at this. But something happens in the meantime. It is this government that has sent out a new regulation that means that patients are no longer called "completed". They're called print-clear. It is this government that has cut the alert time between hospitals and municipalities, and has increased the daily fines. It is this government that has been working hard to compete for the services in the municipalities, now has to be found to be short because health professionals have to turn around and take care of patients who are more in need because hospitals have printed them out faster at short notice. I am surprised that the Minister of Health seems to minimize the serious situation that is now in many municipalities and that many patients know about the body. Would the Minister for Health not do anything more than bring down a selection?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1423	Is it de minimis to address the challenges by doing so thoroughly that we are actually warning a new health reform? Is it de minimis to instruct health businesses on systematic measures to improve cooperation with primary health services? Is it de minimis to follow that they should make greater use of individual plans to ensure the integrity of the specialist health service to the community health service? Is it de minimis to follow up trials and interventions across the country targeting patients in a grey zone between the first and second line services? Is it de minimis to add more district medical centres? Is it de minimis to suggest that input-driven funding should in fact also apply to decentralised services outside the hospital? Now it is not my job to ask questions in the questionnaire, but I think the answer to these questions is self-evident, and that is my answer to the representative Meltveit Kleppa's question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1430	It is good that the Minister of Health is busy with the effects here in the long term. But I'll give him three clear advice in the short term. The only thing to do is to get hospitals more money than they do today, and also to get them involved in getting funds according to the tasks they actually have. They have no more money for the new tasks that the Minister of Health has been carrying out. The second is to support a recruitment plan for health professionals who also focus more on short-term updates — education — for those who are currently working in municipalities. And the third thing to do is to keep up with the patient groups that may have to leave quickly, an acute preparedness that is not so far away that they may be at risk of getting too late. All three of these things the Minister of Health can do something about now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1437	I always listen attentively to the advice given to me by the representative Meltveit Kleppa. I'll do that in this case too. I have to say that, in general, I am already following those advices. I allow myself to point out that both health companies and municipalities receive more money in the 2004 government budget proposal, that we actually allocate considerable funds to a health professionals recruitment plan that also applies to municipal health services. Otherwise, I think I have said my own for today as to how I assess the importance of having a proper and decentralised emergency response in our long-term country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1446	Then the Council of State Hojbråten will have a well-deserved redemption.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1452	My question is to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘According to a notice published on NRK Text TV on 30 October 2003, Statnett has to improve the line network in North Norway for 4 billion. kr due to the massive wind power expansion in the north. Statnets are feared to be at risk of significant misinvestment on the website if investment in new production and in the power grid is not coordinated. What are the total costs – power grids, State subsidies/tax reliefs and construction investments – in order to achieve the objective of 3 TWh wind power in Norway?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1461	The wind power potential is high in North Norway, especially in Finnmark. North Norway has surplus power in the summer and is in balance in the winter period. With large investments in new wind power, the area will have a surplus of power all year round. Therefore, in order to exploit the wind power potential in North Norway, it is necessary to invest in the network. The size of investments depends, of course, on how much wind power is realised and on the location of individual installations. Several wind projects in North Norway have been submitted to the NVE in notifications and in concession applications. According to Statnett’s ‘Net Development Plan for the Central Network 2003-2020’, the central network needs to be strengthened in order to realise large wind farms in Finnmark. In total, the total network costs of realising about 1000 MW in North Norway are earmarked for approximately 4 billion kroner. However, up to 650 MW can be realised in the whole of North Norway without a major need for network reinforcements in the regional and central networks. The expansion of transmission capacity from North Norway due to extensive wind power deployment is assessed by Statnet in the same way as by other major power deployments. State networks shall base their investments on socio-economic criteria. In addition, the NVE will take into account network issues in its concessional treatment of new wind power projects. A number of wind power projects have been applied for and granted concession in Norway. I would therefore like to stress that 3 TWh wind power is not necessarily built in North Norway. In the case of other localisations, the need for, and thus the cost of, network reinforcements may be reduced. The representative of Korsberg requests the total cost of achieving the objective of 3 TWh wind power in Norway. This will depend, as I said, on the location of wind power, and there will therefore be considerable uncertainty about estimating total costs. In the case of State grants, this amounts to up to 10 pst today. of the investment and up to a limit of SEK 600 000 per year. MW. This totals approximately 600 million. kr for the expansion of 3 TWh wind power, provided an operating time of approximately 3000 hours. Enova grants investment aid on the basis of project applications and prioritises applications, inter alia: by energy efficiency per Support crown. Investments in wind power generation vary according to location and availability of the plant. It is calculated about 8 million. kr per. MW installed power. This involves investments of around 8 billion kroner, still based on an operating time of 3000 hours. Over the last few years, a reduction in costs associated with wind power generation has been observed. It is natural to believe that this trend will continue as there is a strong growing market for wind turbines while improving technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1478	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We have a power deficit in Norway and the Nordic countries, especially when it's dry. One of the possibilities to get out of it is to build gas power plants. That's not what the government's doing. It wants to have a full scale gas power plant with CO2 handling, and it is 8 to 13 years ahead. In other words, you have to get help from abroad. The England cable is wired, the cable to the Netherlands is currently in blue – costing approx. 4 billion kroner – and the German cable, which goes towards the Nordic countries, does not have full effect, i.e.: Last winter it was probably 39 pst. At the same time, the Governor of Statnett, Grete Faremo, informed yesterday at the Statnett conference that seven million were to be spent. kr to strengthen the network in Norway over 10 years. Does it include wind power, or does wind power come in addition?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1485	As I said in my first answer, wind power is considered to be all other energy production, including in terms of grid expansion. Where there is a need to strengthen the network, Statnett is responsible for implementing the necessary network reinforcements. In my opinion, Statnet also has the necessary capital base to do this. It is Statnett that has the overall responsibility to make those assessments. They will, of course, always follow the location of each energy production, whether in terms of hydropower, wind power or any other form of power to be transmitted through the central network. Based on these plans, Statnett will make its investments. The figures to which the representative of Korsberg refers will then – as I understand it – refer to the overall plans for grid reinforcements, regardless of what is the energy source.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1492	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In its first response, the Council of State said that in total the total network costs of realising around 1 000 MW in North Norway are earmarked for approximately 4 billion kroner and that up to 650 MW can be realised in North Norway in total without a major need for network reinforcements in the regional and central networks. In other words, if you take out 1 000 MW, it costs 4 billion kroner, and you actually get 350 MW more. Does the Council of State think that is a reasonable use of NOK 4 billion?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1499	I would like to stress that if you were to realise 1000 MW of other energy, for example. hydropower, in which I understand that the representative of Korsberg is very interested, would trigger the same costs. I would also like to point out that in the case of investments in network costs, there will be a step-step curve. One will arrive at a point where the capacity of the existing network will be too small. There will then be a threshold where you will have to invest significantly in new network costs. It could give a room for increased expansion until the next step has to be taken. That's the way it's going to be. This is a problem which is not specifically related to wind power but which concerns all energy production, whether wind power, hydropower or another form of energy to be transmitted through the central network.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1509	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘The experience of free choice of school in Oslo shows that the admission system has led to strong segregation between high school students. Immigrant youth from all over Oslo gathers in schools in the Groruddalen, while ethnic Norwegian youth travel the opposite way. On the general line at Hellerud vgs. has 80 pst. of the 1st classes, the minority background, and the school are struggling with the learning environment, language development and falling character levels. How does the State Council view the scheme’s impact on the Grand Duchy’s objectives of quality improvement in schools and greater integration?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1518	The representative of Lena Jensen suggests that the admission system in secondary education in Oslo has led to strong segregation. Furthermore, the question implicitly arises that the high proportion of the school’s minority language pupils is the reason why ‘school is struggling with the learning environment, language development and falling grades’. The higher education admission scheme is the responsibility of the school owner, in this case the municipality of Oslo. The difference between the school owners who have taken free school choice and those who do not have it lies in the admission process. Countries that have free school choices take into account students ’ wishes for both school and study. In counties without free choice of school, only the desire for direction of study is taken into account. However, even when entering a popular course of study in non-school-free countries, there will ultimately be grades that determine who is admitted, as was the case in Oslo earlier. In addition, the question of free choice of schools is closely related to the school structure. The county councils are responsible for facilitating their provision in higher education so that there is a good dissemination between schools of the fields of study, vocational training and the fields of activity offered by the various schools. In summary, the admission process can take into account both grades and places of residence, or only grades. We know that Oslo is characterised by strong residence segregation, and this does not result in a higher degree of heterogeneity ingestion based on residence. In primary school, the admission system is based on residence. We know that many primary schools have an equal proportion of minority language students. Weaknesses in one intake system must therefore be weighed against weaknesses in other intake systems before drawing any bastant conclusions. The Oslo School is today a multicultural school to provide quality training for all students. Better learning outcomes and a good learning environment are a challenge for all schools, and dissemination of attitudes and expectations to students is necessary for both minority and majority language students. A good school provides a teaching that is adapted to each individual student and takes the necessary steps to stimulate a good learning environment. Earlier this year, we have seen that in a year's time in Oslo, the kindergarten achieved a very good improvement in reading skills among students with a minority background. Recent studies from NCIU show that from 1994 to 2002 there has been a significant improvement in the implementation of minority language secondary education students, especially in general education. In the autumn of 2002, implementation was measured in relation to students who started in secondary education as 16-year-olds in 2000. There were about as many people who followed normal progress among majority and minority youth. However, the Ministry of Education and Research is aware that there is a need for specific efforts towards linguistic minorities and will in the near future present a strategy plan with several measures aimed at improving training for minority language pupils. I think it is a pity that students with a minority background should be accused of degrading the learning environment at a school and would point out that all schools have to invest in quality development regardless of the proportion of minority language students. Oslo has several examples of schools that have experienced poor search and poor implementation in secondary education, but which have reversed development and achieved very good results in relation to both learning outcomes and the environment. Quality improvement in schools must be a common challenge for schools, school owners and government authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1540	I thank you for your answer. As the council says, it's the school owner's responsibility. But the Council of State also has overall responsibility for education in Norway and for developments in Oslo. The experience of free schooling in Oslo is clear. The free choice of schools is in many ways a bluff. It's free schooling for only a few, just for those students who have fun, for those students who master the norm that the school has set, for those with parents who have high social capital and high education, and who have a good cultural capital. The losers in this system are the foreign-language students. We're obliged to do something about this. The development seen in Oslo School is in many ways against the objectives of the Education Plan, against the Training Act, against the political effort we have towards strengthening Norwegian education and integration in society. I would like to present a challenge to the Council of State: Will the Council of State come back to Stortingen with a fairer model of alternative admission rules, possibly a quota?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1553	The President would just like to point out that ‘bløff’ can hardly be said to be parliamentary vocabulary.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1556	No, I'm going to leave to the school owner, namely, in this case, and municipalities in the case of primary schools, to determine the admission rules, as we've had it, and which are good according to what all parties meant in the election campaign in the case of local democracy. I think there are quite a lot of strong words and claims about causality that I think will be difficult to predict. It sounds as if the representative Jensen has retrieved information from a TV 2 programme called the Ghetto School, an expression I take from. That program spoke on the one hand about white and good students and on the other hand about dark and weak students. The strength of that program was that it pointed to a challenge, a problem. It is not in itself a problem that a large proportion of people with immigrant background go to one school. What can be a problem is if this leads to a very one-sided environment or major language problems. But the great weakness of that program was that it was taken for granted that it was the intake system that caused this. I don't think that can be coated. The neighbourhood school, which is a primary school, also has a very high proportion of immigrants, or a proportion of minority language students, as a result of the residence segregated government. This has been discussed in the United States since the 1960s when they discussed ‘busing’. Now I hear that the representative Jensen is making a similar proposal, namely quotas. I think it's going to give rise to very strong reactions if we start quotas on the basis of ethnicity and minority language background. That, I think, will arouse strong reactions. So weaknesses of one system have to be weighed against weaknesses of another system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1563	I agree that it is not a good solution to use expressions such as ‘getto school’ and that stamping schools is not a way to solve the problem either. What I'm trying to get is not that there are A and B schools in Oslo. What I want to find out is that Norwegian education is basic and important in Norwegian school. The experience of this system that has emerged in Oslo now, with a build-up of minority language students in some schools, is in many ways detracting from Norwegian education. You can, for example: to illustrate this by comparing with a sweat cheese: more and more holes can be obtained if you weaken Norwegian training. Then you will also weaken the knowledge-bearing concepts of other learning, and next time you will create losers in the long term. My question is again to the Council of State: What kind of action will the Council of State take to prevent this development?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1572	I disagree that the representative here has not claimed that these are A and B schools. The whole question and justification for question 1 and question 2 add up to it in many ways and add up to a kind of notion that all minority students also speak poor Norwegian. But half of the minority students in Oslo do not have any special Norwegian training, simply because they speak Norwegian just as well as the Norwegians. However, if you want to do something about language training – and I agree with that is very important – I think we need to take action much earlier than in high school. This is when it comes to introducing measures in particular at primary school, but perhaps also measures before starting school, so that the starting point is just as good for everyone. We're going to take more initiatives to do that in just a few days, in fact, we're going to put forward a comprehensive strategy, a plan, with more measures to improve the minority language situation in school. I have to add that they're ordinary students, because the multicultural school is the ordinary school in Norway. Nevertheless, we know that there are people who are struggling with special problems, and we have a responsibility to take care of them. But it has to be solved somewhere else and a long time before you get to the admission system in higher education, which has relatively little to do with this, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1583	My question to the Minister for Education and Research is as follows: ‘The Sem Declaration clearly refers to education with many school policy objectives. But there's not a word about parents. In fact, the word ‘parent’ does not appear in Chapter 7 of the Sem Declaration on Education and Research. What are the Councils of State doing to strengthen parental involvement, influence and decision-making in schools?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1592	Let me first say that the representative Sortevik has probably noticed that we have already done a lot, including in common, which is not in the Sem statement, so it is not necessarily proof that it is not important what is not there. But parents have an important role to play in children’s development and learning. I have focused on listening to parents' experiences with working with the school. On 4 February 2003, I invited a college seminar on user involvement in school. The aim of the seminar was to obtain knowledge status and ideas in the field. A wide range of stakeholders were invited as participants, and their parents were represented as both beginners and participants. These include representatives of the parent network and the Parent Committee of the primary school. The parental network, as I have just mentioned, is a dialogue forum for discussing current issues and a listening point for the Department's political leadership. I have initiated the creation of this wide-ranging network, which had its first meeting on 9 October 2002. In the current year, the Parental Committee of Primary Schools has been allocated funds for the development of ‘Electronic ParentNET’, which is an online information offer and a venue for discussion and exchange of experience. FUG has also received funding for a three-year project that seeks to exploit the resource that minority-language parents represent. The main objective of this project is to increase the safety of parents with a minority background compared to Norwegian primary school children. Projects were proposed to be continued in 2004. Rogalandsforschung has evaluated FUG and delivered its report «Saman for school» on 15 June this year. I will discuss the report in meeting with the FUG on 7 November, i.e. in the near future. Cooperation between home and school in secondary education has been examined by NOVA. The results of the report were published at the Research Conference of the Centre on 13 October this year. Two of the projects in the Reform 97 evaluation have the relationship between home and school as the main concern. The quality committee's investigation discusses the cooperation of home school in a separate chapter. In the hearing I have had my own meetings with the users, including meetings with parents. Parents have contributed useful and interesting views. The results of all of this, the studies and hearings and all the dialogues we have had, will form the basis for the work on the big message to be submitted to spring, where this will be a topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1611	I thank you for the answer, and I am glad that the Council of State among several references also refers to the study by NOVA, which is quite fresh, and which specifically takes into account the parents' involvement, influence and decision-making authority in high school, because there it is formally quite absent. The study asked 1,700 students and 900 parents. I can mention that by the class managers it is 17 pst. who have not held parental meetings, and 40 pst. who have not held conference hours. What will the Council of State do to follow up this submitted report, which has clear conclusions and clear evidence, except to come up with the likely response that we are waiting for the quality committee report and its treatment in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1618	We're going to deal with this in that big message, and then I think there's two issues we need to address. One is the formal possibilities for participation and parental participation in school, and the other is the real involvement. Quite a lot of researchers point out that formality has very little meaning if it's not really good. We're probably going to discuss these questions a little bit pro a contra. It's probably right that most people point out that positive parental participation is actually positive for the learning environment and the learning outcomes. But it is probably also those who point to certain dangers in the other direction, namely: Can there be a risk that this will reduce the opportunities for social mobility, that it will help to maintain differences in school? And is this also becoming burdensome for some parents in certain contexts? Among other things, I refer to: to the discussion on homework and homework. We are going to discuss these issues and include all investigations in the communication. I think it's a very interesting topic, and it deserves to be highlighted perhaps somewhat wider than we've been used to doing in Norway now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1627	It's probably true, as the Council of State says, that you have to distinguish between the formal and the real. However, in my opinion, it is doubtful that the formal basis – and now I am going back to primary school – for parents' involvement, influence and influence must be considerably strengthened. In primary school, this participation is what I would call based on loveliness, inability and non-obligatory pronunciation. Therefore, my question is: what will the Council of State do to bring parents closer to governance, into a governing function, and will the Council of State be in favour of applications for parental school trials? I know that such an application has been sent from among others. Our municipality in Hordaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1634	I am not particularly familiar with that application, but in general, the current political leadership and the government have announced that we want to have a liberal attitude to experimentation as far as it is within the existing legislation, and there is a great deal of local outreach about the attempt you are applying for. Then we have also delegated the right to grant such attempts. I can't finally answer what the government will do about this topic formally. All I can say is that the representative Sortevik raises very interesting and very difficult questions about the balance between participation and the ability to influence and responsibility, which are very important prerequisites for such influence to function. The other thing that is very important to study more is what I know is that both the representative Sortevik and I heard more about yesterday, namely whether parents who are engaged are on behalf of all children or just on behalf of some children. It is also quite essential that we succeed. I hope I can facilitate a good and broad discussion in Stortinget, but unfortunately not until spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1648	‘Alumni in primary school who are going up to the spring math exam shall take part of the PC exam. The educational centre writes in a letter to the school owners that there is still a major shortage of equipment and skills among teachers. A prerequisite for the application of ICT in the take-off tests must be that the students have received the necessary training. What will the Council of State do to ensure that each student has a sound examination?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1655	The elementary school curriculum, L97, which was established in September 1996, states that ICT is to be used in training. L97 contained the following reservation: ‘However, when information technology is involved, the intentions of the plan must be gradually implemented and adapted to what is economically possible for municipalities.’ [[IT]] In the summer 2002 circular from the Ministry, the reservation was cancelled, among other things. intended for ICT to be used in primary school education in accordance with the objectives of curricula from the 2002/2003 school year onwards and for ICT to be used in central/localised tests as of spring 2004. The municipalities were informed of this in the 2002 municipalproposal. In the hearing on the reservation, there was broad agreement on the need to suspend the reservation. During the period 2002–03, the State has committed considerable amounts of continuing training of teachers in the use of ICT. On this basis, I believe that the municipalities have had good opportunities to prepare for the use of ICT in the training and the departure test in the spring of 2004. Schools going to a written test in mathematics in the spring of 2004 need to facilitate students to solve parts of the test using computers as an aid. One has chosen science mathematics this first year, because the math exam can be put up with a rolling system where each student gets access to the computer in about. Forty-five minutes. Such a system may be defended in the light of the following: 1st@item: inlistbox The objective of the L97 math plan clearly states that students should have knowledge of the use of IT aids and be able to assess gradually which tools are appropriate in each situation. Students shall be able to use databases, spreadsheets and other computer programs and shall have knowledge of the use of computers in graphing and functions. The take-off tests must be arranged in such a way that they are in line with the objectives of the curriculum.2. The regular written examination in mathematics has been organised for a period of three years for the use of ICT in the performance of some tasks such as those of students who are used to use this means of teaching, and will also be able to use ICT in the test of departure.3. All schools have been sent three sets of exercises. They also have access to a simple introduction to the use of spreadsheets. General guidelines also inform the schools of what is required by the students during the 2004 test, and provide examples of how the mathematics test can be organised depending on access to machines.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1683	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but unfortunately I am not completely reassured – I am really very sceptical that this can be done in a good enough way. I get a lot of feedback about the school's practical everyday life. Among other things, a principal in Holmestrand told Tønsberg's magazine that the time is not ripe. One teacher at another school in Vestfold says that they have not received a training relevant to the examination preparation. I know about many teachers who have not received anything left for the ICT courses that have been offered. Several have jumped off along the way because it was not relevant enough. Then it is of little use that the colleges boast that many are on the course and participate, and that the state grants a lot of money. The Research Council's report on the evaluation of Reform 97 states that comprehensive education is essential for the development of both content and work in schools, and that continuing training has not only been successful. Will the Council of State take the initiative to examine the skills of math teachers in ICT and to ensure that ICT courses are quality assured and evaluated?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1692	In my opinion, the municipalities have had a very long time to prepare what is actually foreseen in L97 in terms of information and communication technology. I also think that after a long time with a reservation option we went very gently and gently when we wanted to cancel the reservation – among other things. by the fact that this has been clearly notified in time, and by the fact that there has been a broad consultation, which I can recall, did not have any specific reactions, rather there was broad consensus. During the same period, there has been a broad focus on ICT in Norwegian schools, partly on equipment, partly on Internet connectivity and broadband connectivity, and partly on teacher competence building. The studies we have conducted on the competence of teachers show that teachers have better skills than myths, that Norwegian schools are better placed than many have believed in the competence of teachers. I don't know if there's any special investigation regarding math teachers, but at least I want to take the question back and see if we know anything about it, and if it might be useful to get more knowledge about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1699	Yes, it is clear that very much is good in Norwegian school, and not least there are many skilled teachers. But it is the practical everyday life of the school that is often different from what is described on the paper, and not least for exams, things have to work in practice, not just in theory. It's e.g. large schools – 130 students, five classes – which are distributed in a data room with 15 machines, and elsewhere with seven to eight machines, and where there are two printers. It also applies to licences, networks, etc., which must be clarified. It's important that the students here are in focus and get some rest on an exam, and this has to be ensured. Then it's not enough to point to budgets and circulars, you have to make sure that this reaches the school room itself. It's now to do to be the leader was. The newsletter from the Learning Centre, which I refer to in my question, was dated 12 February 2003. Lack of equipment and competence are reported. What can the Council of State now do to make sure that the state has improved after this? It states that the training required is a prerequisite for the application of ICT in take-off tests.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1708	Compared to other countries, ICT equipment in Norwegian schools is very good. Studies conducted by Norsk Gallup in 2002 show that there are 8.4 students per year. PC in youth and 8.2 students per year. PC in combined schools. It's probably in the absolute world summit, and I'm going to assume that that figure is better today than it was in 2002, among other things. as a result of the cancellation of this reservation. It is also my impression after many visits to Norwegian school that the lack of computers and PCs is not a big problem. But the demands at school and the demands at school on good and modern equipment are, of course, exactly the same as elsewhere in society. So I notice a tendency that those who now have desktop PCs, want laptops, etc. It's quite natural with the rapid technological development we have. There are also some ten thousand teachers who have been trained in recent times. If it is possible to investigate what has happened on the equipment side and the competence side the absolute recent time, I will do so, but I cannot answer here and now whether it will be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1719	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘It is now reported that estimates of the cost for civilians of taking over the operation of the Defence Coastal Radar Stations in South Norway, as proposed, are now available. These stations could be very important in monitoring Norwegian territorial waters and thus important tools for the control of fishing resources. Will the Council of State now take the initiative to take over the Coastal Radar Stations of Defence when they are planned to be closed?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1728	It has been decided that all Defence Coastal Radar Stations will be shut down in South Norway. These stations are now being prepared for future disposal. However, the radar itself is in such a constitution that only the location of the coastal radar stations will be of interest in any transfer to users other than the Defence. Coastal stations have not been of particular interest to the fisheries management with regard to resource take-off control, nor is the future use of these facilities a matter for me as Minister for Fisheries. Having said that, I am pleased that the representative Bastesen – and I am not surprised – is still concerned with good resource control. We are both concerned with good resource control as an important element in good resource management. We have – I would like to stress – a good control regime based on inspection of both what is happening at sea and what is happening on land. We have the Coast Guard, who is in charge of the activities of the vessels, and we have the Fisheries Directorate's surveillance service, which is responsible for the opening and closing of fields in the Barents Sea on the basis of the degree of involvement of young fish in the fishing grounds. Furthermore, we have landing control, and we also have control based on satellite tracking of vessels over 24 m. The latter is a very important element of good resource control. National cooperation has also been established between the relevant departments and the Directorates. The representative of Bastisen has pointed out on many occasions how many departments are involved in coastal management and activity taking place along the coast. As Mr Bastesen knows better than most, the control element is also an important part of the international cooperation we have. However, the coastal radar stations concerned have not been used and assessed as not relevant in such a resource control context. There's nothing more to pick up by using them. My answer, therefore, is that the disposal of coastal radar stations will not interfere with today’s resource control. At my discretion, we have a good control regardless of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1741	I could have given a long talk on this. At the time when we were poor, we built a guy, and we built moles. We have mooring poles. Today we cannot afford to maintain them even. We had manned guys, who took care of both the resources and the pollution. I thank the Council of State for the answer that the Ministry of Fisheries should not take over the radar of Defence in the south. I'll register it. I think it's regrettable, because there was an excellent way to monitor the coast, both resourceful and polluting, when we had the radar, and we had the manned guy. Is it really this way to understand that the Ministry of Fisheries does not take this seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1752	Well, this with the resource control we take seriously, and therefore I underlined important elements in the work that we are constantly doing. These radars have not entered as part of the resource control. And on the basis of professional judgements, they are also not considered worthy of improving resource control. But it's not that defence radars in general are not an important element of our activity. I'll show you, for example. to the increased preparedness we now have on the safety along the coast, with increased oil traffic, where the establishment of a traffic centre on the Finnish coast is based on the use of information provided by the Defence Radars. There is close and good cooperation between the Defence and Fisheries Authorities in preparedness and other control activities. So for all things, the defense's installations are used when they're decent. They're not in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1759	The Minister of Fisheries knows very well that there is no single evidence from the Defence Department in the case of radars. The thing is, the Ministry of Fisheries has to take over the radars to get the radar picture. They don't get anything from the defense. As I have pointed out earlier, various departments have to do with the monitoring of the coast. By taking over radars that exist for civil purposes, we could limit the large sums that the Defense must currently have for spare parts for the radar. But I record that the Ministry of Fisheries is not interested in getting the radar image that the Defense has today. Then I have to ask the question: is the Ministry of Fisheries really aware of the radar image that the Defense could actually contribute to?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1768	I stress that these relevant coastal radar stations in South Norway have not been used, and that the need for them to be included in the surveillance and control we have has not been seen. Therefore, it is not now appropriate to take over and make use of them. It won't improve resource control. But it is quite wrong to claim that the defense does not provide information. I remember, as I also said in my first post, that a significant part of our control activity is related to the Coast Guard. There is close and good cooperation between the defence and the fisheries authorities. I find it almost disappointing to hear that the representative Bastisen downgrades, downgrades the defense's efforts in this context. Coast Guard and Defence are key actors, and they are eager contributors. They've shown that, not least when we're building up readiness.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1778	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Through the media, claims have been made that vessels are being introduced into the trademark register which do not comply with the applicable requirements for the design of fishing and fishing vessels by the authorities. Can the Council of State confirm that this is taking place, and what will the Council of State possibly do to remedy this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1787	I am aware that there have been claims in the media that, among other things: recreational craft which do not comply with the applicable design requirements for fishing and catching vessels are entered in the trade mark register. This is as far I know, based on the input from a boat manufacturer, and I assume that this is also the basis of the representative's questions. In order to be able to fish or catch, the owner of the vessel shall be subject to the first authorisation to acquire the vessel and shall then register it in the trade mark register. In order to obtain a acquisition permit and thereby obtain registration in the trade mark register, the vessel must be equipped or suitable for fishing or fishing under Section 8 of the Act of Participation. Paragraph 8 of the Act of Participation states that when the Act was passed in 1999, it was not intended to introduce a general requirement in addition to those resulting from rules given to ensure safety considerations. It is therefore essential for the fisheries management that the vessel is suitable for fishing and for the proper handling of catches, or that it can be set up or equipped in such a way. Consequently, when the condition for entry into the trade mark register is the suitability of the vessel for fishing, it cannot be excluded, as requested, that a vessel has been registered which, for some reason, does not comply with other legislation enforced by other sectoral authorities. I can inform you that there is a dialogue between the Directorate for Fisheries and the Directorate for Maritime Affairs as regards the enforcement of existing legislation and the assessment of any need for additions and/or amendments to this legislation, as the representative also requests. However, my starting point is that there should be clear lines between the fisheries authorities and the maritime authorities, because personnel from the fisheries authorities should not exercise a check for which they do not have professional qualifications. If the respective professional bodies see the need for clarification of the fisheries legislation and such clarifications may promote safety considerations, this will be followed up after the dialogue we have. With regard to this specific enquiry, however, I would like to stress that we are now going to investigate the matter very carefully, not least because it is claimed by other competing boat manufacturers that there is no basis for such claims. We take it seriously, and my response to the representative is that we want this to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1802	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's true that I've retrieved my information from the media. I have later tried to investigate about this, but it does not seem to be as simple as there are several views about this. This applies both to a security principle and to an equality principle. That's why it's important to get to the bottom of it. I am pleased that the Council of State is so clear and precise that the rules should be followed, and that the matter has to be examined and followed up. I noticed that the boat manufacturers disagree here. But isn't the Maritime Directorate's rules so clear that this can be resolved quickly, so that you can figure out what's right and what's wrong? I think it's important that this is resolved quickly, but of course in a thorough manner, as the Council of State says.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1809	I conclude by agreeing on both the pace and the objective. I would like to stress that an important prerequisite for recruiting people for the fishing industry is that we have safe and secure jobs at sea. It is both on the preparedness that we as the authorities are responsible for, and it is true that we have a piece of legislation that is unambiguous in terms of job security as well. But this never relieves fishermen of their own responsibility to keep the boat and equipment in good condition in terms of the fishing they are to carry out, the climatic conditions and other conditions. Regardless of when we get a clarification of these things, at the end of the day it will be important that the fishermen themselves see that they do not go to sea with a boat that is not fully worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1814	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I note that we are in agreement here. This must be resolved, and it must be done as quickly as possible just for safety reasons, but also for the sake of equality in relation to those who are going to feed at sea, and in relation to the producers, who clearly have disagreements that I believe clearly can clarify and bring an end to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1819	I just want to add that we already have some issues related to, among other things. tourist fishing and recreational fishing. It is clear that the representative here is also concerned with the quality of all the vessels that are out fishing. If recreational fishermen are to have less demands than the professional fishermen who are to live on it, we are to commit an injustice against the professional fishermen. I fully agree that the principle of equality is one of the aspects that must be taken into account when we are now reviewing this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1827	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: «NRK Troms reports that the coastguard vessel KV «Senja» has been ordered to dock. According to the Federation of Officers, this obligation of the Government on reinforced towing readiness and the hiring of new vessels is not due to sufficient funds to finance the loads. This may lead to impaired preparedness in relation to Russian heavy oil cargo along the coast. Can the Council of State guarantee that the towing boat stand is financed and in place as provided for?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1836	First, I can confirm that the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Defence have embarked on excellent cooperation with regard to the coverage of the North-Norway traction needs. According to the Ministry of Defence, the KV “Senja” has not been added to the berth as a result of the Government’s arrangements related to the coverage of the towing boat stand in the northern areas. The vessel also has no duties today related to the containment of the towing boat requirement. In relation to the coverage of the tugboat requirement for North Norway, I can confirm that it is in place, as we also discussed in the Stortinget a short time ago, and as we explain in the budget proposal and in St.prp. No 6 for 2003–04, on the lease-in of towing vessels, which we dealt with a few days ago. Under the budget of the Ministry of Fisheries, a vessel is leased to cover the eastern parts of the Finnish coast. The coastal works have therefore entered into a contract with Bukser and Berging AS for the rental of «Scandi Beta». This ship has been in place since 1 November 2003, as we prescribed for the Stortinget. In addition, the defence has undertaken to have a towing vessel in the area of Vest-Finnmark/Nord-Troms. It is the Coast Guard that covers through suitable vessels. After the information provided by the Coast Guard Agency, mainly the coastguard vessels of the North Cape class or KV ‘Senja’ are used for this task. In addition, the Defence and the Coast Guard have concluded a cooperation agreement whereby the Maritime Defence Agency has undertaken to have a vessel with a towing capacity in the area outside the West and South Troms. After the information provided by the Coastal Plant, KV «Normand Trym» is currently in the area and will be replaced by KNM «Valkyria» on 22 November. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the vessels can, of course, be moved according to practical needs, but the need for traction will then be covered by other vessels. Contract negotiations for the lease-in of a towing vessel to the Coastal Works took place at the time when the budget work for 2004 was completed. As mentioned in the draft budget of the Ministry of Fisheries for 2004 and in St.prp. No 6 The Government will return to Stortinget in respect of the 2004 appropriations for the hire of a tugboat, in a separate additional proposal. It comes to Stortinget in a very short time. So one of the Coast Guard vessels was notified in March 2004. It is now working on finding alternative solutions. In line with the Stortinget's decision in the examination of St.prp. No 6 the Government will come back to Stortinget with this. We have already started a work based on the constructive debate which was in the Grand Duchy recently and which, not least, the representative Sørensen contributed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1853	I thank you for your answer. I have to say that it surprised me that these petitions came just a short time after we had the previous debate. I was now a little uncertain about the Minister for Fisheries' response to one point, and it is whether KV ‘Senja’ has been added to the berth or whether it has not been added to the berth. It could seem for a moment that it was added to the berth not because of lack of funding, but perhaps for other reasons, and if it is a central part of the tugboat capacity, it is something that it is okay to confirm. Otherwise, my opinion is that with regard to this task of securing the tug capacity and oil protection along the coast, it is one of the biggest and perhaps the most complicated risk challenges we face, and I am pleased that the Minister for Fisheries seems to take that issue so seriously, and that we are going to get back to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1860	I can then confirm that KV “Senja” is not part of the scheme that has been laid down. But it is clear that any vessel in the area, whether it is the Coast Guard or others, will be part of a total preparedness, but this vessel has not been intended for the preparedness of the Government and the Storing, with three vessels. That's the one. The second is: I explained that the defense has put the ship to berth, but it is independent of the funding that has been made specifically to maintain a standby. The Ministry of Defence also states that when KV “Senja” is now at berth, both an upgrade of the command and an upgrade of technical equipment are being carried out, inter alia. connection equipment. So it's not that it's at the pier because of lack of funding, but it's at the pier from a total disposal of the budgets, which the Defense and Coast Guard are doing at all times, regardless of the needs of the Ministry of Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1869	I thank you for your answer. It is essential that this capacity is in place. I believe that the Minister understands that when we in Stortinget receive concerns both from employees in the Coast Guard, who believe that they do not have enough resources to do their part of the work, and from people in the Coast Guard, who say that here the funds are too scarce for this important task, it is important that we also draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that we are still receiving such messages. However, I think that there is every reason to take inwards that they say that these are problems you have to deal with. I want to end by saying that I look forward to an overall assessment where we also get to be a little bit more thorough in relation to the risk assessment and what we see in the long term in terms of this cargo.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1878	As far as risk assessment is concerned, we have started work on analysing it in order to get some clear perceptions of the risk we are going to take, what risk there is, etc., and then dimensioning the activity in relation to it. But again, according to the Ministry of Defence and the Coast Guard, the fact that the vessel is at berth has an explanation independent of the Ministry of Fisheries’ needs related to fisheries oversight, control and preparedness. So there's no relationship between that. The fact that such claims are made especially in the autumn when the budget is to be dealt with in the Storting is nothing new in itself. At the same time, the Coast Guard has been given increased frameworks, which we have funded in particular, which we went through in the Storting a few days ago. But there will always be a struggle for resources especially in budgetary times.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1883	We'll then answer question 31.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1889	This question, from Signe Eye to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1892	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Nexans in Halden depend entirely on being able to take in larger ships to pick up cables they produce. Norsk Forest Saugbruks also needs an extended fairway. Enterprises will face major problems if the planned expansion of the fairway through Svinesund is not implemented. What will the Council of State do to get ahead of the matter?"
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1901	Firstly, it is an overall objective to have more transport on the keel and, secondly, to improve the entrance of Halden as mentioned in the Coastal Plant Action Programme 2002–2011. The project means that the vessels entering Halden may be increased from 7,3 to 10,3 metres in relation to the draught. However, the national border between Norway and Sweden is a problem in this respect, as it runs in the middle of the healthy environment. As a result, over half of the interventions will be carried out on Swedish soil. Due to the assumed impact on natural resources, the environment and society both in Sweden and Norway, it has been decided that the action should be impact-examined. In consultation with the Swedish authorities, it has been suggested that the investigation process follow the provisions of the Espoo Convention, which addresses cross-border environmental issues. This means that authorisation must be granted by both the Swedish and Norwegian authorities before the action can be implemented. The South-East Coastal Agency has carried out an impact assessment, and the Coastal Directorate, as the responsible authority under the Planning and Building Act, has approved this subject to conditions regarding requirements for the development of environmental follow-up programmes. Despite this, it has not been possible to accept the quality and scale of environmental investigations by Swedish authorities. From the Swedish Government it is expressed that Iddefjorden is particularly vulnerable from an ecological point of view and that national interests are linked to professional fishing, nature conservation and outdoor life. This point of view must, inter alia: is seen in the context that Iddefjorden is one of Sweden's two terskelfjords. On this basis, Swedish environmental protection authorities have expressed strong opposition to any physical intervention. In this context, the Coastal Directorate has carried out an assessment of the further progress made in the planning process. The Coastal Directorate stresses here that the department faces major challenges in terms of planning maritime infrastructure across the coast, which calls for priority projects. It is estimated by the Swedish authorities that this project will not be implemented by the Coastal Directorate. The continuation of the process will therefore require significant resources. On this basis, the Coastal Directorate recommends that the project be stopped by the Coastal Agency. There is considerable uncertainty about the implementation of such a project. As the situation is now, this means that the Ministry of Fisheries joins in the recommendations that the planning work be stopped, which I presented in connection with the assessments made by the Coastal Directorate. This assessment focuses both on ensuring progress for other projects and on taking into account the specific environmental challenges of the Svinesund fairway. In particular, it has been taken into account that Iddefjord has unique natural values in Swedish context. However, should the situation change – and we want to keep in touch with the Swedish authorities – there may be a basis for reconsidering the case. The coastal works have therefore been asked to keep themselves informed about developments in the case from a Swedish point of view. If anything should occur, we are prepared to review the matter again. If the municipality also wishes to proceed with the project, the Swedish Coastal Agency will assist with both recording and advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1916	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's not an answer that gives so much hope, because here I feel that the Council of State is not really willing to take the fight with the Swedes that this will bring, and that it involves considerable resources. But there are also considerable resources that are lost when these companies – which are today modern companies and can compete with the big world – are not allowed to use what they have by using a boat to carry what they produce. It's clear that if you don't get this right, it can quickly be that the company is flagging out or has to reduce significantly. It has long been known that the Swedes do not agree with this. It has also come to my attention that the Minister for the Environment has said that he supports the Swedish position and that he has informed the Minister for Fisheries that this should be the case. Is that right? And does the Minister for Fisheries agree that this is not a big deal that needs to be fought about?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1925	The government has only one view. It would probably draw a little attention if it were such that the Minister for the Environment informed the Minister for Fisheries that this should be the case. We have a different kind of dialogue in this government than maybe others have experience with. But I agree that for business, infrastructure like ports and fairways is an important tool, and for the Ministry of Fisheries it is that nearly 40 pst. of our budget is just going to keep the infrastructure along the coast in order. When the representative asks me to take a fight with Sweden – now it's like I'm going to answer questions and not ask questions – it has to mean that we're going to break international conventions, start explosions in the fjord, and in that way take a fight with Sweden. But under international conventions, we don't have the right to do a job without a consensus with Sweden. And unfortunately we haven't achieved that. But as I say, we have this for a continuous assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1934	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I also noticed in the first answer that the Council of State said that it would be possible to go beyond other projects if you were quite keen on doing something with the supervisor in Svinesund. I would like the Council of State to expand on something more. As far as I am aware, both the Swedish Coastal Agency and all Norwegian hearing bodies believe that it is both socio-economic and environmental right to do something about this, so it is not dangerous for the environment to expand that lane. Therefore, there are very many authorities who believe that it is important to resolve this matter. If it is the case that there is a need to take an initiative from the Halden municipality and that the Minister for Fisheries will then look at this matter again, then I would like to confirm it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1945	As a coastal minister, I am not a moment in doubt that for these companies that are there, this would be of importance. That's also the whole reason we've spent considerable resources investigating this. But as Minister of Cooperation, I would like to follow the somewhat doubtful procedure recommended here, that we should take a conflict with Sweden, in the sense that we should start a work. We have to deal with the agreements and conventions that apply, and that prevents us from implementing this. So to the question of priority. Yes, it is that the preliminary estimate of the cost of this project was approx. 60 million. kr. We have chosen, based on what I have now explained, to dispose of the funds in another way, because there are a number of projects that stand and can be realized, and then I find it unreasonable and wrong to earmark such a large amount of money on a project that we have to acknowledge that we are unable to realise, because the Swedish authorities do not allow us to detonate half of the health that lies in our neighbouring country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1952	Then we go back to question 25 – question 24 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1964	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1971	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘There are constant reactions to late entry in Finnmark. Post between neighbouring municipalities may take several days. This is contrary to the concession terms. Norway has now decided to close all terminals and sorting departments in Finnmark. This will further delay the postal service. The Council of State is both owner and concessional with respect to the Post Norway. What will the Council of State do to ensure a much faster delivery of Finnish mark entries?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1980	I assume that the post office, as far as it is possible, will treat its customers in a non-discriminatory manner throughout the country. This is also apparent from the concession granted by the State to the Post. I am concerned that the service and quality requirements should be met independently of the reorganisations carried out in the company, and I see it as a prerequisite that the new terminal structure contributes to ensuring good quality of the postal services also in the districts. The post office has stated that the quality of mail will be improved for the whole country as a result of the conversion. I think this is very positive. I would also like to remind you that the State buys postal services every year from the Post Office for approx. 300 million. kr, mainly to ensure an equivalent postal service throughout the country. However, I am concerned about the development of Finnmark and expect the Post, in line with the concession's demand for equivalent offers across the country, to focus on ensuring that the transmission time in Finnmark is optimal. The Post and Telecommunications Authority, which supervises compliance with the requirements of the concession, has now asked the Post Office to provide further information on the matter. In this respect, I have instructed the Post Office to meet the requirements of the Postal and Telecommunications Authority to provide information related to the delivery times for priority mail to and within Finnmark. The concession requires 85 pst. the a-item shall be displayed on the day following submission on a country-by-country basis. Point 1.3 of the concession also requires the provision of mail to be equivalent. When further analysis by the Postal and Telecommunications Authority is available, a detailed assessment of the follow-up to the case will be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1989	I thank the Council of State for the answer. With Posten's instructions, all mail in Finnmark must therefore be sent to Tromsø for sorting. It seems exactly as if mail from the government building to Stortinget should first be sent to Namsskogan for sorting, and then sent back. It's against all reason. This leads to increased environmental loads, with nearly 7000 km of extra daily running of vehicle combinations. This leads to delays in packages within Finland by up to two days, resulting in the loss of a significant number of jobs. When we can then conclude that changes in the terminal and sorting structure will result in a further delay in the performance of the post in Finnmark, is there any basis for establishing that the Post cannot carry out these kinds of changes, which will therefore result in even further progress from the concession requirement imposed on the Post?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e1998	The transformation currently planned by the Post is not intended to exacerbate the situation, but to improve the situation. I would like to remind you that in total – to give a picture of how the Post actually works per. Today – has a better service and a better quality of the Post Office services than ever before. It's so that on a national basis it's almost 90 pst. by the mail due the next day. That is a good result on a national basis. But reactions from Finnmark show that there is no such situation. We have said that we will take a closer look. We're making demands. And I, as the owner, want to make demands for the Post, so that it will operate as efficiently as possible, among other things. in order for the districts to benefit from it. The current change in the terminal structure of the Post is part of making the output of the Post more efficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2006	I'm experiencing a double signal from the Council of State. On the one hand, she stresses the positive aspects of changes in the terminal structure, on the other hand, she stresses that there are problems in Finnmark. The average will be good, as you know, even if you have a part of the body in the oven and the other part of the ice water, but that's not necessarily a good result for it. I find that the Post itself informs that only 40 pst. mail from the south to Finnmark will arrive overnight and even internal mail in Finnmark will not meet the concession requirement. What is then my concrete question to the Council of State is: 1st@item: inlistbox Is this satisfactory? Or is it that the Council of State considers it to be so remote from the concession requirement that either as the concession authority or as the owner will oblige the Post to have a faster performance?2. If, as there is every reason to believe, changes in the sorting and terminal structure will lead to further delays, will she then conclude that such organisational changes are contrary to the concession?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2022	If it's right to just 40 pst. by the post office to Finnmark reaches by night, I think it is a very low number. There's a long gap between 40 pst. and 85 pst. We can't have 85 pst. as demands everywhere, because it is a major challenge to transport across the country, no matter what form of communication we are talking about. But we can't have a crack that's too big when it comes to transmission time. There are also other things we're concerned about, and that's what predictability lies here. If the post office is not there overnight, do we know that it is there after two days? It is also an important element for those who are engaged in business or what it may be in Finnmark. Predictability is an important keyword. In terms of the relationship to changes in the terminal structure: I set standards for quality, and then I challenge the Post to find the best way to organise this so that you can deliver the best quality also in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2035	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Transport: ‘Article of the Romesdal Budstikke on 28 October states that the company Hustadmarmor may be forced to conclude a 20-year cooperation with NSB/CargoNet on the transport of liquid lime from Elnesvågen to Hönefoss with Raumabanen. The reason is that CargoNet is going to check-in cars and therefore can no longer provide transport with the fuel tanks Hustadmarm is dependent on. The result can be 1000 new combinations of vehicles per year, increase emissions and more accidents. Can and will the Council of States do anything to prevent this from happening?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2044	CargoNet will be investing in combined transport in the future. This includes the transport of containers, aqueducts and semi-trailers. This type of long-distance transport takes advantage of rail’s comparative advantage and can provide the basis for significant rail freight transport in the future. I believe this is an important structural adjustment. This strategy was defined, inter alia: during the landfilling of St.meld. No 48 for 2000-2001, About the activities of NSB BA 2001-2003. This is also consistent with the EU approach to rail freight. CargoNet has had great success in the investment in combined transport between terminals located near major urban, food and regional centres. Over the last ten years, the cargo of containers by CargoNet has increased from about 90 000 to about 300000. So far in 2003, CargoNet has increased its combined transport by 7 pst. A number of freight customers who have previously used CargoNet's traditional wagon load offer have used combined transport, where containers are first carried with semi-trailers, and then carried on by rail. According to CargoNet, most freight customers experience a more efficient logistics when switching to combined transport solutions. In combined transport, efficient freight transport solutions are available for the vast majority of purposes. This also applies to the transport of tank containers, such as: may transport liquid lime. As I have been informed, CargoNet has submitted several proposals for transport solutions for Hustadmarmor and believes that they will be able to find good solutions both in the short term and in the longer term. However, these are business relationships that need to be resolved between CargoNet and the customers concerned. Finally, I would like to mention that from 15 March this year it was opened up to competition in freight transport on the entire Norwegian rail network. This allows for continued wagon loading operations in Norway if other freight operators find it profitable and wish to invest in such operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2057	I thank you for your answer. It was very positive to the right. The reason why I took this up – except for the specific case itself, which I understand can be good opportunities for solving – was that I was afraid that this could be one of the nails in the chest for the most forward-looking transport option in this part of the country, the Raumaban. The traffic base of the space path is no larger than what is required. When it comes to passenger transport, he has been reduced due to the fact that new express routes have now come through the valley of Rome, and I know that other companies have previously cut out to transport by train due to regularity problems. I would just like to ask: is the Minister optimistic about the future of the Raumaban?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2066	The future of the space orbit depends on many factors, including: the use of it in both freight and passenger transport. I would like to remind you that in the 2004 state budget proposal there is a proposal for investment in a new train communication system, GSMR, blah. at Raumabanen. Here we are planning to use considerable resources, and there should be a fairly strong signal that we are suggesting that the Raumaban has both a future and will be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2073	I thank you again for your answer. I think I'm happy with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2078	So we go back to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2085	This question, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Finance, is answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2088	I have the following questions for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, who is therefore answering on behalf of the Minister of Finance: ‘According to VG 1 October, the border trade in wine and spirits in Sweden increased by 121 p.m. and 32 p.m. respectively since the accession of the Cooperation Government. Saleshall shows that the border trade in wine and spirits in Sweden is now 13 p.m. the sale of the wine monopoly, while the share in 1997 was 3 pst. In addition, there is smuggling and increased border trade in alcohol in Denmark and Finland. What will the Government do to reduce the border trade in alcohol?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2097	With regard to border trade and the impact on the country's revenue as a result of trade, I would first like to remind you that the Government has followed up the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party from last autumn and has arranged for this to be settled through a public authority. The committee presented the report on excise duties and border trade on 30 April this year. The sample pointed out that studies indicate that meat products are the product group that frontier traders primarily travel to Sweden to buy. Tobacco and alcohol are also important commodity groups. The sample estimated the size of the border trade and other car and bus-based tourist imports at approximately DKK 4.5 billion in 2002. The overall impact on value added and employment was, in the opinion of the sample, reported. The report describes developments in the border trade in wine and spirits up to and including 2002. The figures show strong growth in the purchase of wine by the Nordics in Sweden, with more than one triple between 1999 and 2002. Despite the strong growth, border trade with Sweden was only around 4 pst. of the total alcohol consumption in Norway in 2002. The border trade committee presented a preliminary calculation model which can illustrate the relationship between the level of fees, unregistered turnover such as border trade and smuggling and the impact on the income of the country. The committee proposed that the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Statistical Central Bureau, consider further developing the model. The report has just been consulted. In view of, inter alia: views in the consultation round, the Ministry of Finance will consider further developing the model and, where appropriate, making use of the model. I would like to remind you that the fee on spirits was reduced by 25 pst. effectively under the Cooperative Government from 2001 to 2003. The fees for beer and wine were reduced by 5 pst. Nominal from 2001 to 2002. For 2004, a further real reduction of 2,5 pst is proposed. This suggests that there has been a marked reduction in alcohol taxes during the Cooperative Government. However, the Border Trade Committee pointed out that border trade between neighbouring countries could increase in the coming years, not least as a result of developments within the EU. Norway is affected by this development. From 1 January 2004, our Nordic neighbouring countries will have to fully adapt to the EU's liberal private import quotas for alcohol. Denmark and Finland have responded to a reduction in taxes, while the Swedish government has so far proposed no further reductions. If our Swedish neighbours were to reduce the fees, this in turn could help to increase the border trade in alcohol. In that case, the government will assess whether the alcohol charges should be further reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2114	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I get the idea that the government is trying to minimize the problems of the border trade leakage in alcoholic beverages. I see that today, ANB, the news agency of the newspapers, goes out and says that the Norwegians are trading more and more wine and spirits in Sweden. In two years this border trade has increased by 50 pst. And quite rightly, as the Council of State was talking about, Denmark has reduced the alcohol charge, by 45 pst, I think. Finland comes after next year, and Sweden will certainly reduce its alcohol taxes, because Swedish parliamentarians are very concerned that Swedish citizens are going to do their trade in their own country to get value creation there. Then it's kind of puzzled by 2.5 pst. reduction of charges. This only means that price differences between neighbouring countries and Norway are increasing when we are so puzzled and reducing charges by just 2.5 pst. While neighbouring countries will reduce them considerably more. What tools does the Council of State think are needed now to reverse this frontier trade trend, which is very negative for Norwegian jobs in the commercial and service industries and in the brewing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2127	I would like to stress that the Government does not minimize the consequences of the border trade or the consequences of high alcohol consumption related to both health and criminal damage in our society. And so it is that although there are proposals of 2.5 pst. In the case of spirits, there has been a real decrease of 25 pst in the 2004 budget. by this government. I believe that a further reduction in Swedish taxes can help to increase border trade against Sweden. That means we'll have to look at this again if that happens. I don't think there's a need to decide what to do with our taxes, based on a premise and a belief in what the Swedes are going to do. We really have to look at what they're doing, and then the government is prepared to take a discussion about what further consequences it's going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2134	The fact is that Norway is at the top of Europe in terms of fees. This means that we lose any opportunity to control the total turnover and consumption of alcohol, and we negate during smuggling. Governments know very well that mobbing accounts for parts of this smuggling, and that they are also involved in other and more serious trafficking, such as trafficking in human beings and drug trafficking. Doesn't the council now mean you have to stick your finger in the ground and see where you are? The other countries are doing some business all the time to trade in their own countries, but in Norway it becomes relatively static. We have reduced the fees somewhat. Most of it we've come up with pressure from the Progress Party, but that's not enough. Should we not now harmonise it against what makes sense, as in other Nordic countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2143	That's how we follow the evolution that's happening. I think it's also important not least to have a look at the criminal effects of having a border trade, and that there are huge differences in prices. At the same time, therefore, we have followed up on the agreement we had with the Progress Party and have a border trade committee set up, which thus refers to significantly less border trade of these goods as well, than the representative Hedstrom now claims. We have created an analysis model on the basis of proposals from this sample, which we continue to work with after the consultation round to look at the consequences. And then we're going to follow up on those consequences. I don't think the time is right now to say that we are going to harmonise our alcohol charges with other countries' alcohol charges. We also need to take into account the health consequences of this. But we're going to follow up on what underlying changes it can cause, for example. in relation to crime. This will also be followed by the Government when we look at whether the Swedish are going to change their taxes more than what they have so far given the signal that they are going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2150	Then we go to question 28.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2156	‘The government has a housing policy in which only those who need it the most will receive help. At the same time as the House Bank reports that they lack more than 100 million. kr in order to finance rental dwellings, reporting residents in municipal housing, including in Oslo, that there are too many people in municipal housing with major social problems. When has the Council of State planned to bring enough money to help both those who need it the most, and to create good living environments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2163	The question bears the hallmark of rhetoric at the outset. It's not that only those who need the most help are the ones who need help. We have a wide range of instruments where some get subsidies and others get improved loan opportunities. So it reaches a significantly larger quantity than just those that most need help. It is true that the House Bank had applications earlier this year for over 100 million. kr more than they had left of available funds in the case of aid for the purchase of rental dwellings. The House Bank is examining applications for grants on an ongoing basis. I have asked the House Bank to target and prioritise projects aimed at those who need it the most – not the loan issues, but the subsidies given – and those defined as those who need it the most are refugees and homeless. Good projects targeted at these groups will therefore take precedence over other less priority projects. Now I believe that the demand for schemes such as housing allowances will always be higher than the appropriations. When subsidies are provided by the State, municipalities will also ask for more for different projects. At the same time, we see that our signals and priorities have reached potential applicants. The number of applications for housing grants for rental dwellings was per year. 30 September went down in relation to last year, because our targeting has clearly given a signal. The government is busy improving the living conditions of those who need it the most. We have also prioritised following up on St.meld in this year's government budget. No 6 for 2002–2003, Action plan against poverty. We propose in this year's budget to increase the housing allowance by 42.7 million. kr. The frame is then going to be at 712 million. kr for next year, the highest framework that has been, with the exception of the extra grant we had last year related to the settlement of refugees. The appropriations are 702 million. kr. Furthermore, we have targeted the housing support scheme. At the same time, we want a more targeted housing grant scheme. Housing allowances for rental dwellings shall help to increase the number of rental dwellings. Construction research has demonstrated that for every 100 rental dwellings financed by grants, the net offer does not increase by 100, but it increases by 50-85 dwellings. Some municipalities have the strategy of not owning more rental homes themselves. We also take inward that reality when we're going to design our instruments in the future. I'm going to provide a housing report that is going to go through the housing products in a whole way, including the subsidies. In the context of the Bostedslöse project, it focuses on the individual's follow-up needs, including: to counteract poor living conditions. So we've made sure to allocate $22 million. kr for follow-up services in housing on the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs. If the municipalities have good ideas about how to prevent eviction and stimulate good living conditions, municipalities can apply to the House Bank for both development and information.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2178	I thank you for your answer. With all due respect, I feel that there was not a good enough answer to what was at the heart of my question, because when the rental homes in the big cities are to be increasingly targeted exclusively at those who need it the most, i.e. people who are homeless, who often have social and mental problems, often with drug problems as well, how are you going to manage to create good living environments at the same time? I'll repeat that question. For a good part of those living in municipal housing, living in a municipal dwelling has been a good housing option, which has been safe. Many of those who have lived in municipal homes moved into postwar homes and occupied them. These are people who have in a way had their wages and earned their income and so have not been among those who have needed it the most, as Erna Solberg believes. But they've helped create good living environments. That's the Oslo Municipal Lease Association, among other things. says they have trouble getting to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2185	The question was when I was going to bring the money. So the budget proposes more than 700 million. kr for housing measures relating to rental dwellings and to housing establishments, i.e. the housing allowance scheme. It's a high amount. But that's not the way you necessarily create a good living environment. There are questions about how to use the money in a practical way in municipal housing policy. One of the most important means of spreading some of the problems and ensuring that you do not get a ghettoization in terms of social problems and other things is to ensure that municipalities also take advantage of the opportunity to use the 10 pst rule we have, by buying housing in different places and using it instead of building their own housing complexes where the sum of problems can become too large. So it's not a question of money. There are issues about priorities. One of the most important things I think we can do with the House Bank is to expand the House Bank to a competence bank just for how we can solve this type of problem, that the municipalities have a strategy for it. These are among the things we are working on when it comes to the new communication on housing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2194	It's still a problem. I fully agree that this is very important for the municipalities, for example. to purchase new apartments, use the 10 pst rule. And so do the municipalities. But there are too bad systems – I think the Council of State should look at it – in relation to how to enter the existing residential market and buy up there. This is more difficult for municipalities because of the length of the procedure and the kind of things. The Council of State can look at that. But what is at the heart of this case is that while municipalities have previously preferred to enter into and cooperate with housing construction teams that have built – let's say – youth homes that have been largely devoted to ordinary youth and which the housing construction team has allocated to them, something has also been allocated from the municipality. Thus, good integrated living environments have been created where social problems have not been accumulated. But what's reported from every city now that you're struggling with, is that when you just have to give priority to those who need it the most, you get bigger housing units where there's a buildup of social problems. I wonder what the Council of State has intended to do with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2201	In fact, I do not feel that this is a problem that necessarily revolves around how much money is made available. The strategy chosen by a municipality is to address the housing needs of the weakest. I agree with the questioner that there needs to be more dissemination, and I do not see that there is anything in our leadership that makes it more difficult to spread if you have a conscious policy in the municipalities to do so. One of the things that happens is that the housing allowance is largely used to buy new dwellings while disposing of old dwellings, i.e. a circulation all the time. Unfortunately, we do not get an increased offer all the time with the money we give, but we get a purchase of new dwellings while selling other dwellings. If you have that strategy, it actually means that you can dispose of some of the homes you've previously had in construction complexes, which are purely municipal rentals, and buy in other places. I also want to remember that we have increased the possibility to extend the loan period in the House Bank to 50 years. This will make rent more reasonable, and we believe that the municipalities need to use it more. We don't think it's possible to have a clean rental market to solve all the problems for anyone who needs it. We need to focus our efforts on those who have the biggest problems in the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2211	This question, from the representative of Marit Arnstad to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be raised by the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2214	I will address the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The plans for the decommissioning of food departments and emergency preparedness touch with the basic security of many people in the districts. Is the Council of State agreed that the dismantling of these facilities could lead to delocalisation and further centralisation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2223	I have understood from earlier parts of this questionnaire that questions related to healthcare are engaging. I understand that, because it is an important part of the security experience for each of us both that we have good hospitals, and that we have hospitals that are available when we need them. Hospitals are important social institutions. They are important as health services and as jobs. They are also an important security base for the population. They need to know that they can get help where they are, when something happens. Not least, this is important in relation to acute events. I know that this is an important and justified issue locally, both at political level, for trade unions and for corporate governance, and it is an important regional and national policy issue to discuss the availability of healthcare. But there is also a difficult balance between maintaining a decentralised offer, for example. Food departments and emergency preparedness, while maintaining a high level of professional provision to enable the population to use the services to be fully confident that the hospital provision provided in a smaller location is so good that it provides a level of safety as the services provided in a larger and more specialised hospital with a larger population base. I see that changes in important services in the districts may have an impact on people's choice of place of residence, both because important jobs disappear, and because the important security of getting needed help in critical situations can be heightened. Therefore, it is important to focus on how these changes take place, and it is important to focus on the fact that any alternatives to the current offer are also alternatives that provide good security wherever you live in the country. When it comes to changes in food supply, the Minister of Health has informed me that the changes that are now taking place, with some of the smallest food departments, at 200 to 300 births per year. is a follow-up and realization of the leadership of the Stortinget, including the representatives of the Central Party, in the treatment of the so-called emergency message in the spring of 2001. Medical technology is in constant development. With the danger of moving into the health minister's field and his responsibility, I will show that there will be changes, among other things. as opportunities for communication evolve, both through ICT and telecommunications services – and not least through transport investment. We're going to actively use the possibilities that new knowledge gives us. It is through the day-to-day work of teams, depending on several professional groups and specialities, that hospitals achieve better results, and hospitals need to have enough patients to maintain the actual competence of the entire team. It may be problematic in hospitals with very few acute cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2236	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I can't find in addition. The government's district commission, which is to present its work the next fall, has all signaled that one is gathering on a goal of increasing the migration to the district. A very important target group is young women. For many of these, good welfare is a requirement when choosing a dwelling. Districts of Norway, unlike the districts of our neighbouring countries, have competed very well in that area. The result of the comprehensive policy now being pursued – and I stress the overall policy – is that districts are losing, both jobs and in relation to welfare. Young people's activities in Sogn and Fjordane, which were gathered last weekend, referred to this in an interview to the proposed changes in health services: ‘In addition to this, unnecessary loss of life, disappearance of jobs — and an uncertain health situation make it less tempting to live in the county. A decentralised hospital supply is important for busses, safety and well-being in a state such as Sogn and Fjordane, where people live very widely.’ Can life be measured in crowns? asks the county council of youth. I ask: does the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs see that the closure of important welfare services, such as food and emergency services at our local hospitals, is one development that will make districts less attractive as housing options for young people, and especially young women at the start-up stage?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2252	Now I have answered the question as to whether it can cause a problem and regional challenges. Yes, of course it can, but the important thing then is whether it gives more or less security. I think that a little bit of the discussion that is now going on related to healthcare and the belief that it's just the current way to organise health services that provide the acute security for people, can actually help, if there's structural changes, to create an insecurity that's unnecessary. One of the areas where there is a raging development is precisely because we have had the geographical population distribution we have, where Norway is at the forefront, is related to ICT-based medicine and to the work done in medical technology with professional support and communication. The experience gained includes: from the hospital in Alta, the University Hospital of North Norway in Tromsø, which shows that much more can be done locally, allowing us to offer, with other forms of organisation, without necessarily maintaining the structure of the day, a significant level of security even if structural changes occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2257	I thank you again for your answer. It is well that at birth there is still a need for midwife and gynecologist, there is not enough help with ICT. I have a follow-up question. In the event of the conversion of maternity wards into pedigree, the pedigree for follow-up services is extended. Anyone who gets more than an hour's travel time, and there'll be many of them with the plans that are currently running around in the country, has the right to follow a midwife or a municipal doctor. A well-developed follow-up service is important for the safety of the birthing woman. Follow-up service is a municipal responsibility. For the municipalities of Inner Sogn, the costs of the follow-up services are estimated to increase by more than 1 million. kr if the maternity ward of the local hospital in Lærdal is turned into a food crutch. The same municipalities had a total deficit of about 40 million in 2002. kr. In a letter from the County Council to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs dated 4 March of this year, it is: ‘... the economic situation in the municipalities and for the inhabitants is becoming dramatic.’ Will the Minister of State compensate for the additional costs that will thus be passed on to the municipalities of the State? Or should a safe follow-up service for pregnant women be funded through school cuts and care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2275	I think ICT can be used for guidance even during birth when you have a midwife and a midwife-led maternity ward. It's one of the exciting things about much of what is now developing around the University Hospital in Tromsø. The specialist can actually sit somewhere else and help others. If there are cases that occur very rarely, and the hospital on site is not trained to handle it, it is actually better to be moved and treated elsewhere than to be in a hospital that does not have enough training in the area. I want to stress that we are concerned about security, but we also need to see that we have new opportunities to create that security. With regard to the local economy, we look at all areas where changes can occur in the distribution of tasks as a result of structural changes that increase the costs of municipalities. These include: in the mandate of the new Committee on Income, which we have set up, to consider whether there are also informal shifts in tasks. It is also a separate sample that looks at the first- and second-line services and the forms of funding between them. I expect that if there is a gradual transfer of responsibility, this will be something we address later on. But I can't stand here right now and say that we have more money associated with that particular change. But we're looking at how we're going to deal with a dynamic change of tasks between the first and second line services.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2285	«The Trondheim Address Paper writes on 21 October that the Defence Department is working on plans to move the Air War School from Trondheim to Oslo and then join the War School for the Army. Can the Council of State explain whether such plans exist, and whether a move to the opposite side, from Oslo to Trondheim, is also investigated?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2292	In order to meet future competence requirements and personnel structure requirements, a regular evaluation of the Defence Education System is necessary. It is apparent from the framework for the military investigation of the Chief of Defence. It is necessary to assess whether competences need to be brought together more closely in order to create powerful environments of competence, or whether the current system is preferable and can be further developed. War schools shall focus in particular on military disciplines where there are no comprehensive civil offerings. In order for the defence education system to contribute to the cost-effectiveness of defence, it is necessary to continuously assess what will be appropriate solutions in the future, including: based on changed student numbers, proximity to other institutions of competence, proximity to operational activities, etc. With regard to the media statements on the transfer of the war schools referred to, there is no right in the existence of plans by the head of defence on the transfer of the war schools. What is true, however, is that the head of defence has been given wide powers to investigate and calculate costs of existing and all other conceivable alternative ways of organising the defence activities, including the educational activities and the war schools. Such a general and transparent approach is necessary to provide a comprehensive picture of the costs associated with the activities of the Defence Agency. It is part of the defence chief's process, and it will lead to his military professional recommendation in December, which will once again form the basis for the ministry's planning work. I intend to present the government's four-year plan for defence in the spring of 2004. However, I have made it quite clear that I do not see it as appropriate to propose the transfer of the war schools in the planned four-year proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2305	I thank you for the answer, which was exemplaryly clear, I think: it is not desirable on the part of the Minister of Defence to move the existing war schools. However, my question is whether the Council of State in its work will take on the same overall objective as, among other things. The Minister of Administration has presented here in connection with state activities, an objective of decentralisation of jobs, that existing activities can be moved out of the central eastern region, and rather go the opposite way to using the defence as such a decentralisation tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2312	Defense is in its nature decentralised because we now focus on moving resources from administrative level to operational level. The operational units of the Defence are located around Norway’s country, and very many of them are located in North Norway. I've started the downsizing that we're facing in the Defense – we're going to downstrip 5,000 men – with just halving the defense team in Oslo. We now have a new defense management of 800 people, while it was 1,600 before, and it's happened in Oslo. Having said that, I would say that contact with our three largest cities is important. The War School has an equally rooted affiliation in Oslo, vis-à-vis the population of Oslo, which the Air War School has in Trondheim and the Maritime War School has in Bergen. Just because I'm happy with the situation as it is today for our war schools, I don't have any plans to use it in a decentralization model.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2321	In its first response, the Council of State also pointed to more general views about a change in defence, and this goes much further than just the war schools. It also goes a lot further than just North Norway. We have e.g. The island airstation, which means a lot to District-Midt-Norway, where there is also a constant fear of being centralised into the central eastern region, Gardermoen or Rygge. I wonder if the Council of State will also base the same positions on the question that she has signaled in the answer to the war schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2326	It's a little out of the question, but the Council of State is free to answer it, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2329	The defense is in a very big transition, and my challenge will be to address what is a problem, and try to propose a solution to it. In terms of what is positive in the Defense, there is also a basis for using that follow-up question to express a very both pride in and positive attitude towards the Orlandan. The island has been hosting NATO Air Meet several times. What's important for the Defense is to have access to the training area. In fact, both Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim are short, because the training areas are often even further away. That's why the station we have on Ørland, linked to our F-16 aircraft, and also the island as a base for NATO's AWACS fleet, that is, a reserve base, is important for the defense. I believe that the challenges we face in the next four years are primarily related to other issues than making changes to the F-16 location in the Orland, or to that part of the Air War School in Trondheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2338	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-05.ana.ud2613e2349	There is no record.
