ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e58	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e61	On behalf of Øyvind Korsberg, Per Sandberg and myself, I would like to put forward proposals on State responsibility for building main pipelines for natural gas for use in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e66	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 31 January 2003: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 31 January 2003 at 1 p.m. 1100 is hereby decided:State Secretary Thorhild Widvey is hereby dismissed from office as Secretary of State of the Ministry of Fisheries.State Secretary Thorhild Widvey is hereby appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.Policy adviser Janne Johnsen is hereby appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of Fisheries.’ The President proposes that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes – it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e93	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right, 5 minutes to each of the other parties and 5 minutes to the representative Simonsen. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after the contributions of the main speakers from each group and five lines of reply after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e102	The thing we have for us is a Document No. 8-proposals by Rolf Rekvam and Lena Jensen to introduce a national minimum standard for primary school resources. The background to the proposal is the concern of the proposers for the resource situation in the primary school in our country. In fact, the resource situation in primary school occupies the entire committee. The plural says: ‘The majority have noted new figures from the Primary School Information System — GSI, which show changes in hours per student and student development that give cause for concern.’ A comparison of student numbers and hours from 1998 to 1999 up to the present day shows a reduction of a total of 19 pst. And that's a lot. Both the government parties, the Workers' Party and the Center Party stress that they are actually concerned about this development. At the same time, the majority emphasises that there is a great deal of upsurge in public schools, and that the school as a common meeting place for all children, regardless of social, religious or cultural background, is a strength for society. Furthermore, the majority notes that it believes that: ‘mainstreaming public schools depends on parents feeling that the school is a field of activity’. Now the situation has also shown that parents around our country are in fact deeply concerned about the development of school. And as the rapporteur, I think it is uplifting that a majority in the committee actually shares this concern. The right, Christian People's Party and the left also underline the proposalers' intention to secure sufficient resources for primary school, but at the same time they stress that increased resources do not necessarily improve quality. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre point out that reduced sharing hours and increased hours of special education, school library closure, etc., say that the school is in a very stressful situation around the municipalities. The majority of the Committee is not in favour of setting a minimum standard, and underlines very strongly that it is about local priorities and that it is up to individual local authorities to choose how to bet. But it is important to see this case in the context of the situation in which the municipalities are located, that one often has to choose the least one. So that is what the majority of the committee is concerned about. So the majority says, ‘The majority indicates that the Government has been asked to return to the Great Government in the spring of 2003 with an explanation of the resource situation in primary school.’ The majority attend such a presentation with the possibility to assess the relationship between available resources and the school's ability to provide all pupils with equivalent education and follow-up in line with the Training Act. In addition, this must be held up against municipalities being able to have the freedom to have the school structure that one has. What I would like the Council of State to say is how the Council of State will come to the Storting and make this statement. I want the Council of State to make its own statement, and not do so in the context of the revised national budget. I want the Stortinget to be able to discuss the resource situation on a broad basis in a way that does not depend on numbers. So I hope the Council of State can answer something when she gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e137	Education policy is mostly about giving individual students knowledge and giving them the opportunity to reach their goals, realise their dreams and potential. Education policy is also about taking responsibility. It is a fact that there are considerable differences in the use of resources between municipalities. The current income system is complicated and difficult to understand. We are getting more and more examples of municipalities that are struggling and prioritizing between statutory tasks – they are prioritizing between statutory tasks! In such a situation, it may seem that school life for individuals is comparable to a lottery: a good school day can depend on the municipality in which you live. It shouldn't be like that, it can't be like that. The Workers' Party shares the proposalers' opinion that Clemet's image of the Norwegian school is incorrect. The fact that we live financially in the country that maybe spends most at school, and that still gets mediocre back, as Clement has repeated several times, is not true. My claim is that it is the parents' experience of lack of resources in school that is correct. The theme of the day is not new. A comparable proposal was discussed here at Stortinget in 2000. It's a Document No. 8-proposals advanced by Grete Knudsen and Sylvia Brustad. This was a proposal to ask the Government to submit proposals for instruments to ensure equivalent school provision across the country in terms of both special education, teaching and sharing hours. The proposal was adopted at Stortinget. The Workers' Party believes today that a review of today's basic school funding scheme requires more time than that provided for in a Document No. Eight proposals that you just send to Stortinget. In addition, it can be asked how lucky it is that, with the development of special schemes, government resources are transferred to municipalities. You have to weigh this up against the municipal maritime administration all the time. At the same time, it is important to have a comprehensive review of the funding system for schools. As I said, it's complicated, it's not clear – it's very important to have a total review of the funding system. We know that today's system creates inequalities around the country. If, as the proposers point out, the funding system should be modified, it must be done after a thorough investigation and not after a Document No. Eight proposals. We will therefore await the report by the Department, as also mentioned by the case-rapporteur, on the resource situation throughout primary education, which we expect to come in the spring of 2003. Such a review will provide the basis for a wide-ranging debate on the relationship between resources and outcomes in schools. There are many opinions about what is the best way to finance the school, not least we have noted the Education Association's opinions on a more detailed minimum standard. My claim is that the debate we have right now is a direct result of the poor economy of the municipalities. In these days, 2 500 teachers are said to be in primary school. Today, striking teachers show their distrust of the school councils. Zero trust is the slogan we'll see out here today. The requirement for minimum standards is understandable in the light of the local economy. But my point is that a minimum standard is uninteresting if one does not fully fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e152	The proposal for the introduction of the minimum standard is justified by the proposers that this is necessary in order to provide high-quality education for primary school students. That the school should be of high quality, there is no disagreement about it. That the school has to have financial resources to achieve high quality is also not disputed. Nor should there be any disagreement that we in Norway have a very high level of resource use in school. That's actually a good reason to be satisfied with. The minimum standard in primary school is not new. Today's Training Act also provides for minimum standards. And it's a fact that most municipalities are above the minimum requirements laid down by law. Data from several OECD countries show that Norway is actually among the countries using the most resources per year. student. At the same time, we know that Norwegian students have intermediate performance compared to students in other OECD countries. Then we have to ask the question whether it's the economy that's the biggest problem in Norwegian school. Will more funds lead to higher quality? Research, including: a study conducted by researchers at the Educational Research Institute at the University of Oslo and the University of Technology in Norway shows that there is no significant link between resource use and the professional performance of the students. That doesn't mean that economics isn't important. Primary school must have, and must have, a good economic foundation, but this foundation does not, in our opinion, improve by introducing a national minimum standard that will certainly be below the level of most municipalities in today's world. A minimum standard could easily be considered as a maximum rate and will therefore not be a strengthening of the school. The right is concerned with quality in school. In our opinion, the focus must not be on economics, at least not on one-sided economics, but on how the funds are used, on how the school is organised, and on the content of the school. Local freedom of action must be stressed. Each school must have the opportunity to make the most of its resources, both economic and human, according to what the school itself finds out is the best. When central government leaves decisions on the operation of individual schools, learning outcomes will increase. In fact, this is clearly demonstrated both in the 1995 TIMSS surveys and in the 2000 PISA survey. Freedom of movement for each school is therefore an important element in providing the school with higher quality. We believe that a national minimum standard will weaken local freedom of action. Norwegian schools are different — different sizes, different geographical conditions, different student compositions, different teacher resources, etc. The ability of schools to take advantage of their specific advantages will be hampered by the introduction of a national minimum standard. Right has faith in local self-government. It is the municipalities that are responsible for organising the school and for making their own priorities within the resources available. The introduction of a national minimum standard will weaken municipal autonomy while at the same time the different assumptions and conditions in municipalities regarding primary schooling will not be captured. The system will simply have unreasonable effects. However, it is important to stress that the school needs to secure the necessary financial resources. As the rapporteur said, there is concern that the number of school divisions is being reduced, while the number of hours of special education after individual decisions is increasing. Schools must be given the opportunity to apply strengthening measures as early as possible, so that students receive the appropriate training they require. I expect that the development that we can now see at this point will be followed closely by the department. Through its many proposals, the Council of State has focused on the quality concept in school, and she has managed to give the concept a broader content than just money. I'm even out a lot of school students and parents and the interest in school policy is great. But interest is more focused on school content, on school organisation and on the desire for flexibility in relation to key decisions. I am pleased that there is a lot of focus here now, and I am convinced that the decision that has been taken, all the measures that have come, and the proposals that will come, will be important contributions to Norwegian school getting the desired quality improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e173	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e176	The representative points to one thing that the Committee and the Stortinget are in complete agreement on: the resource situation in the municipalities is tight, and that is an economic problem. But the right has repeatedly stated that teachers are a key factor in creating quality in training in Norwegian school. It's an opinion I share in full, and I fully agree with it. Well-qualified teachers are essential for creating a good school. It is therefore with great concern that I see the new figures coming from the GSI, which show that the number of yearbooks for teachers and teaching staff has decreased by 4 pst. from the school year 1998/1999 to 2002/2003. In the same period, the number of assistants in school has increased by a total of 4.5 pst. In this period, the student has also increased by 7 pst. In a tight economic situation, it is tempting for the school to replace well-qualified but more expensive teachers with assistants. How does the representative from the Right view this development, where teachers seem to replace students with unqualified staff? Our proposal for a minimum standard in school is not at the expense of the municipality's autonomy. We have put in a proposal that you should increase on average 60 pst. above school standards today. We promote our proposal to secure school and ensure that all students in the country have a minimum qualified teacher staff and financial assurance of the quality of school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e187	Yes, I can agree that the resource situation is alarming. I also agree that the teachers of course are a key factor. With regard to the statistics referred to when it comes to the decline of teachers, I have been somewhat surprised that a moment that I think is an important reason is not included in the discussion, namely the teacher package 2, in particular – the reading time of the teachers has increased, and this has led to the need for fewer teachers to cover the same number of hours, and it is clear that there is a significant reason to see some decline in the number of teachers. Increases in assistants I think are positive. There is a need for school staff who do not necessarily have education. Assistants are an important addition to the teachers of many schools. I think there are an incredible number of school assignments that have been carried out by pedagogically trained staff up to the last few years, which can be carried out to the benefit of assistants. I think that the drop in the number of teachers has a lot of its explanation in Teachers' Package 2 and increased reading time, and that it and the increase in assistants are at the best for both school and students.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e196	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e199	It's focused on education and at school right now. It's a pleasure. It's important to focus on school. It is also important to focus on the importance of learning outcomes. It is also important to remind each other that we almost have a European resource use and teacher density record. But unfortunately, we have far more discouraging results to refer to in terms of learning outcomes for students, measured by the OECD in the much-discussed PISA study. It is also true that there is no legal link between resource use and results, both learned and politicians have a different view of it. Similarly, in the Progress Party we are also concerned that we need to get system changes in Norwegian school. We promoted at the session start last year a comprehensive Document No. Eight proposals, nine to ten different amendments to the system, which were examined in November and rejected by all other parties. Among the changes in the systems we want to implement is a change in funding. We want to remove the municipalities, we want to make it impossible for local municipal authorities to put the labs on money that is meant for school. We do this best, in our opinion, by getting direct government funding, a system in which the state pays school fees for the individual student to the school where the student chooses to be a student. And then I use the opportunity to record our proposal that is in the setting. At the same time, we are glad that there is a system change going on in school. So we have a notified system change that goes where the wage negotiations are going. It's a pity that we have a strike reaction to such an important system change. It's a pity that we get a strike reaction from a union that obviously suffers from change. The more happy it is that the parents, who are organized through the parental committee for primary school, are very clear that they are taking a break from the strike, and are taking a break from using students in a paycheck on the part of the teachers. What is interesting – and I would like to spend a few seconds on – is that some comments have been made on what has been proposed. Indeed, even from the point of view of change, there are quite clear objections to the proposal, at least as designed by the proposers. Also from the Federation of Education you have problems swallowing what comes directly from SV in the form of proposals, which is the background that we have this matter here today. It's interesting to notice. What is also interesting to note is that there will be a presentation to the Survey on the resource situation in initial training during the first half of 2003. It comes on the basis of the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party – one of the many things the Progress Party was given in the field of education in the agreement with the government parties. But I would like to remind you that the same proposal that is now part of the budget agreement was actually made in the main room in connection with the debate on the throne. There was no connection from the government parties – perhaps not so surprising at the time – but there was no connection from the other opposition parties either. Neither the Workers' Party, the Centre Party nor the SV felt a particular need in October to get a notification of the resource situation in the school. It is possible that the centre party voted in favour – I see it is one eager representative – but at least it was quite clear rejection from the proposalers' party, SV. They would not have such a message. Now we get such a message, on the initiative of the Progress Party, and then hopefully we will get a broad light on a number of issues related to resource use and performance in Norwegian school. We think that's useful. And then there is also full opportunity for the different parties to once again promote their views on resources and outcomes in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e218	Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e224	I waved quickly with my hand, because it's a party that has really underlined the need for resources to primary school, and it's just the Center Party. The statement that we're asking the Government to come to Stortinget has two important things in it. The first is that it should be looked at in a way that is about adapted training for the individual student, which is actually the most important concept in L97 – adapted to the individual student’s needs. What resources are needed to enable one to say that each person is trained according to abilities and forces? That's the one. The second is that it should also be measured against the fact that schools should have the freedom to determine the local school structure, i.e. that one is not forced to leave schools on the basis of the resource situation. This, I believe, is important leadership that the Government must have as its starting point when it comes to the Storting with this statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e233	Two things: From the Progress Party we are sure that the best prescription to stop the schools from being laid down is to make sure that the money is just following the student. With regard to the statement, I believe that KS in its reply to the matter has described it very well: ‘KS believes that such a review could provide the basis for a broader debate on the relationship between resources and school performance than individual doc.8 proposals.’ – This is after they have referred to the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party. So do we. But I agree with what has been expressed here, that we hope it will be a message. We assume that it will be a message. We assume that there will not be a column in a budget paper related to the revised budget. We assume what is contained in the text of the agreement that this is a statement in a separate communication, with a broad discussion that also provides the basis for good and proper consideration in the committee and good and proper treatment in the storeroom.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e245	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e248	SV believes that a national minimum standard of resources for primary schools can contribute to providing a platform of security and predictability. It will represent a guarantee that migration can serve the objective of real quality raising and not just adaptation to an increasingly strenuous local economy. I don't want to spend so much time justifying the need by looking at the situation around the municipalities. I note that there is at least some common view of the school's economic situation and its consequences, and I refer not least to what the rapporteur said. I also learned in yesterday's Question Time that Kristin Clemet also went a long way towards the same as she – perhaps a little surprisingly transparent – admitted that the local economy represents a serious challenge for the school. I would therefore like to focus on what seems to be one of the main reasons why none of the parties would support SV's proposal: that our proposal would weaken local autonomy. In my view, there can be no doubt that a certain economic space is a necessary prerequisite for a real local autonomy. The biggest obstacle, as I see it, is not, above all, strong governmental leadership, but the coercion that lies in the lack of financial ability to steer in the direction you want. I have my political everyday life somewhere other than in this house – in a poor press community. As a local government, chairmanship and school board representative, I have this year after year learned that the school policy engine is not at all wanted for a better school, for wiser and happier children, but primarily for economic reasons. It's only been a few days since the majority of politicians in the municipality I come from, Nesodden, instructed the school to break the Education Act by moving students out of the neighborhoods of the schools and across to other schools. There was no new scheme motivated by a desire to raise the quality and offer children the best, but motivated by the economic pressure in the economic situation in which the municipalities are located. I experience this as a result of strong government governance, where the economy is the instrument. We also experience that it is hard to get people to engage and participate in local democracy. Freedom of innovation is of little value when it comes primarily to freedom to find solutions that cost less, which will make the wheels run around with fewer teachers, enabling the municipality to operate at less cost. This is the reality of a lot of municipalities. SV wants news. We have e.g. to ensure that it can be valuable to open up to another organisation of everyday school life through, for example: to move away from the traditional barriers to the size of the class. However, if a minimum basis of resources is not ensured, such an option becomes a coercion. I know that in my municipality – with the economic situation we have – this possibility will only benefit those who are striving to get the budgets to go together. Without a fuse like the one contained in our proposal, the Government's desire to abolish the classification requirement becomes a safe path to reduced quality. A minimum standard for primary school does not represent a detailed management system. It is a governance of key national objectives. It will provide room for better equipment, for more specialised teaching, for project work, for new forms of work — in short, an innovation that the school urgently needs, but for which today’s resource situation gives too little room. It will also counteract the growing difference in resource use between municipalities and municipalities that we see. SV is a strong supporter of local communities choosing differently, but it must result in an equivalent, albeit different, offer. The Workers' Party and the Centre's Party are concerned that a minimum standard will shift the problems to other sectors if the municipalities do not allocate funds of the same size. For SV it is an absolute requirement and it is also expressed in this Document No. The 8 proposal that the Storting compensates for the increased costs. Municipalities cannot carry any more reforms without containment. We have estimated the cost of SEK 1.5 to 2 billion, and believe it is entirely justified on the basis of the objective that I have learned that both SV and Right have in common, at least when you put Right's rhetoric into the election campaign, to create the world's best school. SV considers the introduction of a national minimum standard as one of the cornerstones of the effort for such a measure. So I just want to make a few brief comments on the Right Representative's view of this with regard to the relationship between resources and quality. We hear from the Right so often that there's no connection, that you're almost tempted to believe that you're looking at reducing resources as a means of improving quality. Of course, there is no mechanical link between resource increase and quality increase. But there can hardly be any doubt, as I see it, that the quality of the Norwegian school is related to the use of a lot of resources over a long time, and that today's economic situation is a real threat to this. I want to take advantage of the opportunity to present the SV's proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e278	Christian Holm has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e283	I've learned to think positively about most, including most statements. Therefore, I have as my starting point that SV would like to do the best for most people, even when it comes to school. On the one hand, SV wants local self-government, while on the other hand they impose on the municipalities the detailed proposal from Stortinget after the other, which regulates what municipalities should do. On the one hand, they want local freedom of action, while on the other, they adopt reforms in the Grand Duchy which deprive municipalities of freedom of action. I mention one example: when SV now wants municipalities to have a better economy in relation to the schools, SV is at the same time to adopt on the Stortinget a child care reform that deprives municipalities of freedom of action, and as a number of rapporteurs, including the Municipal Councils, strongly argues against and dissuades the Stortinget from adopting. On the one hand, SV wants the municipalities to receive more funding for the schools – NOK 1.5–2 billion, it is said here. On the other hand, a policy is being pursued to reverse the level of interest rates if the SV's policy had been pursued, in relation to what the majority of population have adopted. Does the Swedish authorities not realise that there should be consistency between what is done at Stortinget in individual cases and what they want to do at local level? Should there not be consistency between the desire for local freedom of action and the central direction SV in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e290	I explained in my post that the way I see it is an economic basis that ensures freedom of action, also a key prerequisite for local self-government. Sub-budgeting the municipalities creates a coercion that works against local self-government and puts local politicians in a situation where the choices you want to make are not made, but forced into a path that is set by the financial framework. We have underlined that this is a reform that needs to be compensated by adequate resources. Then it will be up to local self-government and the individual municipality to design the offer as you like. But there's a certain minimum national standard at the bottom, and I think it's necessary in the school sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e295	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e298	There is no doubt that the school has been given a lot of attention in several contexts lately, as in the hall here today. But also outside this hall we'll notice the teachers' activity today that the school is on the field. The Christian People's Party understands the frustration many feel that a number of municipalities are now cutting down on the funding for schools. We are witnessing that municipalities cut in good deals, often contrary to the objectives of which there is broad political agreement. The key must therefore be to enable municipalities to give priority to the school. There must be consistency between the tasks assigned and transfers of resources. But the Christian People's Party does not want to support the SV's proposal to introduce a national minimum standard of resources for primary schools. We don't think that's the way to go. It is clear that there are huge differences between municipalities and municipalities in the use of money at school per year. student. This may be perceived as unfair, but it is important for the Christian People's Party that municipalities continue to be responsible for and free to organise primary schools according to their own priorities and available resources. The municipalities themselves know where the shoe prints – or the school. It is not correct to say that different levels of expenditure in municipalities are reflected in different quality of school and educational provision. The large cost variations depend on geography, school size, number of students in need of strengthening measures, etc. In addition, greater emphasis should also be placed on the role of teachers and the competence of teachers. This is also decisive for the pupils' learning curve. It is worth noting that the Municipal Councils have opposed the proposal for a minimum national standard, because they fear that the proposal will weaken local democracy and hinder the flexible, sensible and efficient use of public funds. A major challenge for the school in the future is to achieve the objectives of national curricula for the development of local school. The plans provide a wide scope for action and, therefore, developments in the future depend on local will and initiative. The Christian People's Party has confidence that communities want to meet this challenge. Today, the average teacher timetal is approximately. 70 pst. above the minimum level of the law. This shows that many bets in a good school. And I'm glad we can spend a lot of resources at school. The problem is not high resource consumption, it is optimal use of resources. And the result for me is more than measurable grades. It is important that municipalities give priority to school, but the debate on quality in school is more than a question of money. There is no clear link between resource use and the academic achievements of the students, as we have heard. The Christian People's Party wants school content to be much more the subject of political debate. I therefore expect the Quality Committee for Primary School to present its position in June. I hope that the committee's attitude can help widen the horizon of the school policy debate. In addition, the Ministry has also been asked, as we have heard earlier here today, to provide the Stortinget with an explanation of the resource situation in initial training. I am pleased that a large majority of the committee, with the exception of the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen, shows that there is a great deal of upsurge in public schools. It is a strength in our society that children with different backgrounds meet in the same school. This does not conflict with the fact that someone will choose a boarding school. We must have that right in a democratic country. But the Christian People's Party will continue to invest in public school. We need a good school, not just for students, but also for society. During the 1990s, we have expanded a 13-year training offer. The offer shall be equivalent for all throughout the country. At the same time, training shall be characterised by diversity and local conditions. We still believe in local self-government and that the will of local politicians is there to create a good school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e319	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e322	It is nice to hear that the Christian People's Party has a great understanding of the finances of the municipalities. It's just that in the municipalities, understanding helps very little when you're going to get the budget involved. It surprises me that the Christian People's Party can repeatedly go to the pulpit and say that they have so much understanding of the poor community economy, for welfare offers that cannot be given. Then you'll get to mention it to Erna Solberg! It would have been OK if the Christian People's Party in government had gone out offensively and said, "We're going to take the municipalities' economy seriously, and we're going to press the Right to take a lift for the public sector." It is with great disappointment that I record that the Christian People's Party, which has been shoulder to shoulder for many years with the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party in defense of the School of Unity, in defense of the Public School, now throws all the values overboard and says: We follow Right to the door, we want the private schools to get a lift – as was done during the last budgetary procedure. It is not possible to stand here and say that a good quality is not just dependent on money. When you say it repeatedly, you get the impression that if you just gave the school zero dollars, we got the best school. My question is, why has the Christian People's Party left its position on supporting the school of unity, on fighting for the public school, and now the Right follows right to the door of private schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e332	Thank you for the challenge of saying – and repeating what I said in my post – that the Christian People's Party wants a good public school. There's no doubt about it. And that's where we stand with the Right. That's why we rule with the Right; among other things. We stand together in school policy. We'll bet on a good public school. I paid attention to the fact that this does not conflict with the fact that we also offer fresh oils. What happened to the treatment of the last state budget, with an increase in the transfers to the colleges, was a justice requirement, as the private school law says that the primary schools should have 85 pst. the cover in relation to what is given to public schools. A new investigation was now followed up, which shows that the boarding schools have been under-budgeted until now. This does not mean that there is less money for public schools. We're strengthening public school by doing a lot of other things than just focusing on money. I did not say that there is no need for money. On the contrary, I said that it is not just a clear agreement with regard to these things all the time. But I said I'm glad we have a high level of resource use in the school in Norway. It was just supposed to be missing! And the fall in interest rates, which has come as a result of a tight government budget, has given 2 billion more dollars to the municipalities. So there's a connection here with a tight government budget to get interest rates down, while focusing on a good school. We're not throwing our values overboard. The working party can be sure that for us public school is something we'll bet on in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e339	The representative Elsa Scarbøvik points to something very important that is widely agreed in Stortinget, namely the poor municipal economy and the difficult situation of municipalities. But it is not possible to improve the finances of municipalities by just being concerned about it. Now there is a real decline in the local economy. This year’s budget shows that municipalities have received even worse advice. I'll take an example from my daughter's school. She's going to Smestad School. We have now been informed that the school library will be closed in six months. That's the reality you're experiencing around the municipalities. If you are concerned about local economy, and if you want municipalities to have real self-management, you give money with the promises. In the budget, SV gave NOK 5 billion more in free money to the municipalities, as well as the transfers to special tasks that we have given to the municipalities. For example, the Government, together with the Progress Party, has now decided to transfer the school leisure system from earmarked funds to free funds to municipalities. At the same time, half of the grant has been awarded to SFO. You've reduced by 214 million. kr in the case of the school leisure scheme. My question to Elsa Scarbøvik is: does this give the municipalities a real freedom of action in how to handle the school leisure system and its offers?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e346	I understand that local economy becomes the topic of a debate where you talk about minimum standards. But from there you also take up the SFO case – I can't see it has something to do with the minimum standard. For me, the SFO is not something that has to do with school's public engagement. It is a voluntary arrangement for parents, for whom I believe they should pay. This must also be seen in the context of other tasks that the municipality has in relation to its inhabitants. For me, it doesn't mean that we see that the SFO is coming out worse in many places. It does not do SFO, as I know it, but you have to put it here in connection with the municipality's offer. When it's about being worried and just worried, I'm not. We also do something about it, by looking at how things can be done in other ways. We're trying to turn the case around, so we don't get into a black paint of Norwegian school. It's just ruining, and I'm more worried about that. I see that the schools are developing well around the different municipalities. I'm on a lot of municipal visits and I'm asking to see what the schools are doing, so I know this from the inside. There's so much positive going on, and we also have to keep going, not just let us duplicate all of the black paint that we can read about in the papers. So we're doing something to develop the school. There have never been as many development measures in Norwegian school as per. Today, and this is what we want more people to benefit from.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e353	The representative Scarbøvik says she understands the frustration. I guess it's not that hard to understand things, but the question is whether the representative Scarbøvik and the Christian People's Party are also taking responsibility for the situation that's going on around School-Norway, and which is particularly affecting the municipalities this year. My question to Elsa Scarbøvik is, what will she do with that understanding? Will she stand up and say that this we take responsibility for? I was at a meeting in Sund at Sotra with municipal minister Erna Solberg on Friday evening, where we had the theme: Are we heading towards the trip or community merger? There the resource situation in the municipalities was debated quite a lot, but she promised no improvement in 2004. She said that the municipal economy was also going to be very hard in 2004. So my question to Elsa Scarbøvik is, when is she going to go from understanding to responsibility and really do something about the situation around in School-Norway? She has actually joined in writing in the setting that you are concerned that the number of split hours is falling, and that the resource situation in the school is as it is. It's not just useful to have an understanding of frustration!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e362	I have more than understanding, and I also tried to elaborate in my post that we're doing something about it. The school evolves from within, and we look at things that can be done in a different way than before, using the resources that are. It's taking responsibility. That is why this is out for consultation, and several proposals have been put forward that will do something about this. Keeping a tight budget is taking responsibility. It is to take responsibility for the interest rate, as I am, among other things. referred to in my previous answer. We do something when we point out that the local economy is something we have to do with. I fully agree with that, and we have also said that in our party. It is also shown that the Council of State in the Questionnaire yesterday said that careful monitoring of the development of this situation with the local economy is taking place. Nor has there been more money in the municipalities than it is per person. Today, but there is something about the way they are used. Among other things, there is more to wages, e.g.: In school, we've wanted to raise our teachers' wages. Then resources are used differently from before. I'm not saying anything for a new budget, but I promise that we'll follow the situation, that we'll do something about it, and that we'll take responsibility, so that we can constantly develop a good school. It wants the Christian People's Party to be in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e369	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e372	Actually, this isn't a school debate, really it's a debate on the municipal maritime administration. Indeed, the local economy is a concern of all parties, and we have had a long debate on it. I now feel that we might get an honest debate about it, where the concern is somewhat equally shared. This is not something that has suddenly occurred this year. I have tried to make the school budget also with labor party governments, without realizing that it gave me the great space for action in order to reach the great heights on the school page. The biggest threat to the municipal maritime administration and the municipal economy is that there is a wealth of rights and minimum standards in this room, which means that there is no room for action at local level. This is where the health and social department of this house has been most competent. As a result, those who are involved in school in this house are getting more and more pressured. Then we have the choice of either trying to defeat the health and social part or throwing ourselves in the same carousel. I realized that SV chose the strategy that we had to throw the school at the same carousel. It seems like a shock that we have a municipal minister who actually doesn't lie about the situation, and who actually tells us what things really are. I think that if we had managed to get there that we could discuss local economy at that level, it would have been much more comfortable. It's not like everything knows in this country is located in this room, sail if I see that the Progress Party in today's debate came up with its true me with the fact that municipal politicians were going to put their labs on money for the school. I think we should rather think that the municipal voters actually choose the politicians who represent the values they stand for, and that there are a lot of local authorities who are involved in giving priority to schools, despite the fact that we don't have all sorts of minimum standards there that we have in the health and social sector. Otherwise, I also notice, after the last review of the municipalities, that there are clearly municipalities with the Left rapporteur who have prioritised the school highest. The short cut in this proposal is, first of all, that there will be no more money from having minimum standards. There's absolutely no more money in the system of it. The second is that you don't accept the inequalities between schools. I've traveled around schools and seen a lot of different things, including schools that have quite similar foundations in economic, demographic and pedagogical terms, but that get very different from the money. In fact, municipal and local maritime governance means that you have to have confidence that the people who are set to give priority should also give priority to it. In this connection, Lena Jensen set a good example, as she has placed her child at the west edge school Smestad. Here in Oslo, schools have a high degree of maritime governance and a high degree of parental influence in relation to how this should be prioritised. And that's what they've got because there's different views about the role of the school library. If you go up in the Grorud valley, to Trasop school, you have prioritised school library over many years, and you have an amazing school library and amazing resources attached to it. But it's a choice that the school has made. And it's up to parents and local environment to engage. If you see the school library as the most important thing, you have to give it priority. But I know that Smestad has also prioritised other things. And in terms of the type of local variation in your choice of pedagogics, and the focus you want on the tools in school, I have great faith that parents, teachers and students together will be able to find the best solutions, instead of having minimum standards on what to have, without it being related to the pedagogical holistic approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e396	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e399	First, to the representative Trine Skei Grande said that there will be no more money from an introduction of minimum standards. Then I have to repeat what I said in my post, that it is a clear premise from the SV's side that such a reform must be compensated. It's a bet that's also reflected in our angle of the state budget. So for this reason, the proposal does not take into account differences between schools. There I can, among other things, point to input from teacher organisations — which were also brought forward by the representative of Sortevik — which are not opposed to this proposal, but, on the contrary, support it. However, they have comments on how this can be arranged in order to make it work properly, and there are valuable comments such as: This is the case with differences between schools. So it'll be able to solve. Then I will not repeat what I have said about an economic freedom as a prerequisite for local self-government, but rather point to another example from one municipality. The initiative on care for the elderly was in many ways a government governance and an intervention in local self-government. But in the poor municipality, it was felt as a relief in many ways, because it was at least some of the money with it – not enough, we thought, but still. This enabled us to sort of turn our backs and focus on other tasks, and that some of the biggest challenges in that sector were overcome by a state initiative. So there's not necessarily any contradiction between self-government and state intervention.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e408	If it is a prerequisite for compensating for such reforms, this should be a budgetary matter rather than a Document No. Eight proposals. The representative Holm set a good example in relation to the elderly. It is quite clear that there are a lot of local government representatives – whether we have supported a lot of what has been done – who have felt that this must be our priority now, because that is now the money from the state is there. That's when we have to start building. And it's actually an intervention in the municipal and local priorities. In addition, several municipalities, such as the municipality from which I was originally from, had completed very much when the government found out that this was important, which also led to large local inequalities. And we also see today – with the pot we all agree that there is a desperate need – that in many municipalities this leads to school centralization, because it is cheaper to build new ones in relation to other things than to clean up the old, small schools. So everything we do here in the hall, intervenes in the local maritime administration. I also believe that there is in principle no difference between the right thinking of the Progress Party and the minimum standard thinking of SV. There's just as much breach of the municipal maritime administration, and there's just as much faith that everything knows is in this room, and nowhere else.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e418	I actually share Trine Skei Grande's view of local democracy and local freedom of action. I also share her concern about the entire law of rights and the danger that this will bind the whole of local democracy, or in some way actually make local democracy superfluous. That's why we've been very clear, even in relation to the SV's proposal on minimum standards in school. But I don't think Trine Skei Grande should let go so easily that I agree with her in everything. I have a question for her. You talk about the library at Smestad and at Trasop, and you talk about bets, but you really don't think the representative Skei Grande that there should be enough room for action to decide whether to set up a school library or not. Shouldn't it be a matter of course in our country that a school that has a library should have enough room for action to continue to have the library. If she doesn't mean it, I'm actually a little worried.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e425	There's a lot of good intentions tyranny here, that's what I and the Skjillaa agree with. But school library as a educational tool is more than it was in Fillan in the 1980s, when I went to school there. The focus on the schools that have really invested in school libraries is both on maintenance in relation to investment, on the need to have library skills, and on how much library competence you need, and on how actively you use the school library as a educational tool. The school library when I went to school was four shelves in a room, where there were some books that were very often borrowed – I won't tell who it was – and then there were some books that had never been out of the shelves. You could say that's a minimum standard at school library. However, the use of school libraries as a educational tool must be linked to educational thinking throughout the school, if you want to use it. That means that schools can have different bets on this, from the two bookshelves that we had in the cat at Øysletta kindergarten, until what you have at Trasop school, where the school library is the heart of school and the heart of the school's pedagogical thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e430	I realized that I was challenged from the left on this with local autonomy. Let me be very clear about it: the Progress Party sees no role for municipal politicians in steering the resource framework into school. We do not see that it is a task for municipal politicians to care for school matters, at least not in terms of funding. We are concerned that funding should not go the way of the municipal funds. That is why what we again propose is that we have to have direct government funding where the state pays the school money. On the other hand, we are concerned about some of the things that the left-wing representative was in on, that is to have autonomy in schools. We're indebted to that. We are concerned that as many schools as possible should be as self-governed – also released from local municipal politicians – by their own governments, and we would like to understand that the Parental Committee for Primary School is moving towards, namely that parents should be in the majority and govern the school. It's the ones that represent the users, it's the ones that represent the sponsors. Local politicians are neither users nor sponsors, with many other agendas and many other priorities within a framework transfer from the country. The best way to ensure good use of resources in school, according to a good priority from users themselves, is to make sure that the money comes straight out, and that the money follows the student.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e437	Here's a clear glass distinction between the Progress Party and the Left. We have a completely different approach to just this. The Progress Party deals with the citizens of society as customers, clients and clients in a type of service production. I think of school as an important social institution. It actually means something if you have a big school or if you have a small school, if you have a school with one pedagogy or the other pedagogy. These are social choices, there are choices that local government has to make, and there are priorities that our local people have to make. And then it's clear that parents have a role in the design, in the participation and in all of this. But it's the teachers and the pedagogical competence that actually creates philosophy, heaven, guidelines that you work for, and they also have to have a role to play. When we delegated this to the governments of this city, we got a balance between the parents, the municipality in the position of the local people, and the teachers, where none of them have a majority, and where one actually has to agree when finding solutions. These three interests must be together when you're in charge of the school. It's these three interests that lie there, and if you take away two of them, a major dimension of what the school is disappears. This isn't making meatcakes, but it's actually helping kids cope with life in a better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e442	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e445	This short debate carries the germ in itself for an even bigger and more important debate. I noticed with interest that the school section of the debate has been increasingly informed and nuanced. It is marked by a willingness to open up a discussion about what is good and bad at Norwegian school, the benefits and disadvantages of different instruments, while also being linked to the question of local autonomy. Resource use in primary and secondary schools measured in the number of year-old teacher’s works per year Students are high in Norway compared to other countries, especially in primary schools, and that is good. The numbers we now have at the same time show that the resource use per. Students have been somewhat reduced in recent years since 1997/98, especially in primary schools. This reduction is related to changes in school structure, which in turn are related to changes in demographic conditions. The reduction has been relatively greatest from the 2001–2002 school year to the 2002–2003 school year, but in particular in those municipalities that have already had the largest use of resources, and is therefore not affected by the issue of minimum standards. Moreover, the reduction over the last five or six years is not of such magnitude as to give rise to serious concerns. It is relatively modest and the level is still high, but we need to follow developments closely. Resource binding provisions and minimum standards generally raise difficult questions. In any case, they must be adapted to differences in needs between municipalities and schools. In addition, the provision of resource-binding provisions for teacher assistance, which corresponds to the average level in the municipalities today, will lead to unnecessary binding of operational resources on too many municipalities, and to a low level of rationality that could be detrimental to other needs of the school. For other municipalities that are above average, there is a risk that such a resource-binding provision could lead to a reduction in their use of resources in schools down to the norm. In the matter of the state, therefore, we face a dilemma when it comes to binding on the municipal resource use to school through the funding system. On the one hand, we are concerned that the school has the necessary resources to produce good results. National school management must ensure that all students have the right to appropriate training and that this right is respected. On the other hand, we want to increase local freedom of action, because we think it helps to create a better school. Dismantling unlucky ties in the organisation of legislation and at the same time restoring bonds at the level of resources in other ways is not easy to reconcile with the desire for local freedom of action. It is also important to stress that putting strong government commitments on the amount of money to be spent by municipalities for school is a drastic change that requires clear signs that today’s school management is not working. To put it another way: in principle, in many ways there are many bad luck with many resource bonds, but unfortunately we have to have it for observation. The government will present a statement of the resource situation in the school in the revised national budget, and we will also consider measures related to future changes in the training law. I refer to a consultation paper that is out there, where we both raise questions about an indicative resource standard and questions about the supervisory function, in particular to schools/municipalities that use little resources compared to the rest of School-Norway. I hope this can provide the basis for an informed debate on the resource situation in school, but there is a debate that I think should preferably be combined with a debate on the whole of local government and municipal autonomy. Let me also add that it's on the verge that we have a challenge in school construction. It's the school owner who's responsible for the school buildings. However, for a period of time there has been a need to implement state measures, and that is why we have introduced the loan scheme that everyone knows about. There is a great deal of interest in this scheme, and by the end of 2002, 214 municipalities and county municipalities had applied for interest compensation from the scheme. I will follow developments in municipal applications for the loan scheme in the future and assess the annual loan frameworks accordingly. We are also trying – as the Stortinget is familiar with – to form a more precise picture of the actual situation of school buildings. I would also like to say that I do not dispute – and have never disputed – the experience of parents or schools of having a bad school economy. This phenomenon can occur at the same time as spending a lot of resources at school at national level. It just illustrates the dilemma we face from time to time, that many resource bonds, many rules, etc., and strong government governance of the school can help to make what is basically a lot of resources feel like very scarce resources. Summary: I miss the fundamental debate on the state's relationship with local government. Do we believe in and hold fast to the framework funding system, local priority freedom and local self-government, or do we only trust the state and government management of the school? If we are to have that debate, I believe that we must also see the school in relation to other sectors and not isolated – for example. with the nursery sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e468	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e471	As has been said here, this becomes a debate on local economy. And that's not nice. We know that the health and elderly sector, together with the school sector at the municipal level, will amount to about 10 %. 70 pst. of the total budget of the municipalities. It's the big, heavy sectors we spend most of the money around the municipality of Norway. When we further know that the school sector budget goes between 70 and 80 pst. The reality is that today we are talking about the remaining 25 psts, which are used to operate, and that is the whole debate about these resources. That's interesting enough. But we kind of have to look at this. When we see that the frame hour is constantly falling in Norwegian school and the number of special hours is increasing, there is reason to ask if there is a deliberate choice that is taking place in the municipalities just because the local economy is so weak, that you set up lower ramti metal and the rates of intervention by the county council and impose more and more special hours on them. It is of course exciting that the Council of State continues to make new proposals within the school, including: resolving the classification rules. In Russia, you can have 50 students in the class. It's school in the morning, and it's school in the afternoon. We can learn from others and take on new reforms. They even claimed that the students learned better in the afternoon. So my question to the Council of State is, how far are you really willing to go when it comes to solving all the old, fixed, known classification rules? Do you think this is an experiment that could damage the school in the long term?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e482	I can promise that I will not promote any suggestions that I believe will harm the school. Moreover, the proposal to which it refers is not promoted. It is available in a draft consultation. I am aware that a collective KS board, all parties there, has joined the proposal. I think you'll see that this is best for the school, for the students and I think for the working environment for the teachers as well. But what we are discussing here today is the dilemmas that arise around this in relation to resource-binding mechanisms, and therefore in the draft consultation, we have also asked the Hearing Officers for their views on this with an indicative resource standard. I believe that in my post I presented the dilemmas of using the kind of norms vis-à-vis local self-government. In my opinion, there is not a debate here now just on local economy, it is also the germ of a debate on local self-government and on local democracy, and local democracy means having and taking responsibility, and it must be accompanied by decision-making power. There is the problem in the municipal sector today, which means that the municipal sector and local government are in many ways at a time of destiny. I think that is quite serious. There is an imbalance in the local economy. This is because municipal politicians have had too high ambitions and that they have been too little good to improve efficiency, but it is also due to the fact that the Stortinget has had too high ambitions on behalf of local politicians and, in part, has not fully financed the reforms, among others. Because there are different types of majority here in this room. And in addition, when we see something that we don't like, we resort to detailed management tools or tools and override the municipalities, so that there is even less room for local democracy. I said yesterday, and I stand by it, that school is the sector that has been most loyal to the local democracy thinking we've really been together about, but that's why the school is now the most vulnerable. It is a very serious issue that is being raised, and it takes a lot of effort between local politicians and national politicians to get out of it, which goes far beyond the school sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e493	Let me first say that I think there are good suggestions from this council, suggestions that serve the school. But there are three things I want to mention. First of all, the financial instrument, which we are discussing here. I have as my starting point that, on the part of the Council of State, more emphasis needs to be placed on what serves the school than on local democratic exercises in the municipal elections. You have to be much more concerned about getting democracy in school, getting parents more influence, and actually getting students more influence as they get older. There the democratic debate can be put in place, and there we also need to strengthen democracy. But the fact that local politicians are going to have to play with the school money, we are much less concerned about it. With the method we have, there are weaknesses, and my question is: see the Council of State on other methods, she sees, for example. to the nearest neighbouring countries to see if there are other methods of funding the school than the one we use? So to this with upgrading school buildings. We were also in the Questionnaire yesterday. I want to repeat what is a concern: an estimate of at least NOK 40 billion, a loan framework of NOK 15 billion, a time aspect of eight years, and of the NOK 15 billion, we have been able to spend DKK 3 billion on the first two years. This is going slowly. And for those who are students in school today, it's worrying. The third thing – and that made me jump – was that the Council of State now said that this message that I have been talking about in my main post comes together with the revised budget. If it was meant that way, I have to say that I'm jumping one more time, because then I actually see it as a breach of contract. We need to have a self-announcement, not a notice related to the revised budget. I hope we get a clarification on this. If not, we have to clarify it outside the hall – in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e504	I think I said it comes in connection with the revised national budget. I have to be so honest now to say that on the move I do not remember exactly the wording of the agreement that has been concluded. But I don't intend to break the agreement, so I think I'll have to say it that way, and then we might have the dialogue about it outside this pulpit. In terms of school funding, there are several activities going on in and on. One is that we now have a draft out-of-court consultation in the case of primary schools, with questions about another funding scheme there. There is, of course, the funding mechanism today so that schools receive 85 pst. of the average in public schools based on a national average. When there is a very different use of resources in municipalities, as it is in part, this could lead to the occurrence of injustices. In this consultation document, we have raised questions about whether we should instead have a system similar to that of the Swedish, where free schools receive support, a proportion of a municipal average, based on the municipal expenditure level. We are also going through the funding and the resource situation. We see the resource situation and funding in the context of both primary and secondary education. And when we're going to report back, we're also going to report back on the status of these investigations, as well as clarifying the actual resource situation in the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e514	The SV's proposal to introduce a minimum standard is an attempt on our part to ensure local freedom of action and to ensure a better economy for municipalities. Our proposal is to add the increased grant into the framework and not to have it as a earmarked grant. And last but not least, our proposal now is to get a minimum standard an attempt to ensure educational freedom both for the municipality and for the individual school. The most important thing for us is to ensure the quality of education for young people. Clement himself is concerned about the finances of the municipalities. She describes it in such a way that the municipalities are in a time of destiny in terms of local freedom of action and municipal autonomy. The Council of State has sent out, at the hearing, proposals to remove the class division number. I very much agree with that. That is a good suggestion. This is important in order to ensure local freedom of action and to rethink schools and in new forms. But there will be problems by removing the class division if you don't come in with any other framework conditions that can secure the school an economy. That's why we've put in this proposal on minimum standards. Since we're removing a method to figure out how much money the school is going to have, we're setting a different standard for this. My question to Kristin Clemet – she has been involved in the past too – is: How will Kristin Clemet be able to protect the school in the next round, when the next year's budget comes and the municipalities get further economic downturn?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e523	I don't doubt a moment on SV's good intentions in relation to the school. And it is well that we are all in favour of a system in which we combine this with some national minimum standards – it is in schools anyway, also in other areas – with a framework funding. But I think it would be strange if you can't admit that we're facing dilemmas here. Then you have not been able to listen to what municipal politicians have expressed over the years. They can of course complain that the transfers from the state are too small, but they also complain to me about a lot of central government and regulation from the state. I think that's very clear. I guess we're all a little schizophrenic. And if I can allow myself to say that, maybe SV is one of the most schizophrenic games in this area. Now you have to have a municipal election program where you have to bet heavily on local freedom of action, etc. as far as I understand. But at the same time, SV is very quick to address minimum standards and regulation management and government of the local government sector. Not because I doubt their good intentions, but I'm more in doubt if we can achieve the goal in such a way. What I think is interesting is all the experimental schools that are in Norway now. There are a lot of schools that make experiments under the Training Act and other regulations and under the Working Time Agreement. Then you get more flexible solutions. It is reported to provide better adapted and differentiated education. Parents are more satisfied, students are more satisfied, teachers are more satisfied and school leaders and school owners are more satisfied. At the same time, resource use becomes more effective in the sense that one feels more liberal about resources, even if one initially had no more. Now it is part of the story that the consultation proposal we have out on classification rules also contains the question of an indicative resource standard, and then we get back to it. Then to the municipal economy for next year. I was not present at the meeting that the municipal minister had obviously been at a few days ago, but one of the reasons she's worried about next year, is the nursery agreement that has been concluded, which will require resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e536	The President assumes that the diagnosis of the disease in this case was very pictorial?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e539	Yes!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e544	The debate has focused on local economics, and it has focused on local maritime governance. With regard to the economy of the school, there is a common concern among all the parties in the Stortinget. As far as local democracy is concerned, it is clear that the Progress Party and SV stand out from the rest. We want a local maritime administration and believe that municipal politicians can give priority to it. I want to go back to this statement. This is about some sort of budgetary agreement, but it is something far more than a budget agreement. It's actually a decision in Stortinget to come to Stortinget with a statement. So there's a Roman number decision that this statement is going to come. I will be amazed if there is a budget agreement. There is a large-scale decision on this statement. Then I don't think the Storting should find out that it is only described in some columns of the revised budget. The story has asked for an explanation, and what we are doing today is to emphasize even more strongly how this statement should be. The presentation of the primary school resource situation must therefore, in the majority’s view, make the scope of resources in today’s school visible up to the L97 target of adapted training for each individual student. Furthermore, the majority sees that many small schools are at risk of closure for economic reasons. The presentation must therefore clarify whether the scope of resources is such that municipalities with a decentralised school structure with both few and fully-divided schools have financial freedom to determine the school structure locally. I would like to ask the Council of State to clarify that there is a separate explanation – not from a budget agreement, but actually from a decision in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e557	The comment on the agreement instead was in response to a question from the representative of Sortevik, who referred to the agreement. I can confirm that there will be a statement to the Size of the Resource Situation with the elements that were now listed by the representative of the Skjälaa. When it happened to the sick people instead, I made it clear that everyone was a little bit sick, so it basically went beyond everyone. So a little bit to this with the school economy and the concern. After all this has been said, I will nevertheless repeat what is also a fact, that resource use is overall high, and that it is important that we take an interest in how we use the resources. It is striking, and we need to be interested, that there are other countries that look like our own, that use less resources, and that seem to succeed much more with the ideal of 'adapted training' than we succeed in. You can draw up the weakest students in a better way, and at the same time it raises the average quality of your training. This suggests that there is also something about the organisation of our school, the management of the school, the way we use the resources, which can be better. We need to be able to have two thoughts in our head at once – maybe three: we need to be interested in local democracy, we need to be interested in the development of total resources in school, and we need to be interested in how resources are used for the benefit of students and those working in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e566	We're going to carry over with the characteristics of SV as a schizophrenic party. I understand that it is figuratively meant, and we can live with it. What I think one should take inwards is that we don't have a debate for and against local self-government, but that, on the other hand, we have a different view of what conditions it is that local self-government can work. So there is so much emphasis on the financial autonomy of municipalities and the ability to exercise local self-government based on a solid economy as on this with government governance in the form of minimum standards, etc. for local democracy to work. Others, in the debate, have almost turned into hardcore with the Progress Party on this issue. I find that completely pointless, all the time the Progress Party has clearly said that they believe that the municipalities have no role in this. We are strongly concerned with local self-government, but believe that one of the prerequisites is financial freedom of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e575	Of course, I respect SV's view of this with local freedom of action and local democracy. However, I think it is right to note that there are quite a number of inter-political signals coming from the local government sector that, on the one hand, there can be good dissatisfaction with economic transfers and the extent to which major reforms, tasks, action plans, etc. is fully financed by the State, but to the greatest extent also by what is perceived as State detail management. It has not been long since, I believe, the rapporteurs of the country asked for views on this from the Minister of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Local Affairs. The area that was highlighted as the strongest state-led retailer, i.e. unnecessarily detailed, was the school area. A few of the things that we now have in the consultation proposal are an attempt to address some of the criticism, which is therefore cross-political, from the Municipality of Norway. This is partly the case with class-sharing rules, which have gained cross-political support on the board of the Municipal Councils' Central Association, and the second is the requirement for the principal's competence versus making demands on the entire school management, which also gives municipalities a slightly greater freedom of action. I would also like to add that the proposal on which there was a broad consensus here in Stortinget that the so-called 2+2 model in higher education, which is also contained in this consultation document, could be seen more flexibly, because it increases local freedom of action, responsibility and decision-making. I see, regardless of SV's vision, this as a pretty cross-political signal. I have not been a municipal politician in the true sense of the word – I have not been elected – but I have worked in municipal policy and have also experienced it from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e588	The cord shift has thus been completed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[Fotation, see page 1789]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e606	The background to this unanimous vote is a proposal by the representatives of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and Rune J. Kjellaaen to legislate similar insurance schemes in the event of accidents for all primary and secondary school students. The proposers believe that insurance conditions are currently highly arbitrary and that this violates the principle of equivalence between pupils. The proposers consider that the costs of such an insurance scheme must be borne by the State. There may be grounds for recalling that all pupils, apprentices and children in kindergarten are covered by the Swedish Social Security Act and will thus receive benefits in accordance with the common rules in the social security system in the event of school-related harm. Corresponding rules apply to students. In addition, pupils and apprentices will be covered by the Professional Injury Act in the event of damage that may occur in the course of carrying out work on the company. So far, the similarity is taken care of. Differences between students arise first by the school owners taking out collective accident insurance for their students. Although the vast majority of municipalities and county councils sign such insurance, it is a fact that many students do not have insurance cover in addition to the general provisions of the public interest in the event of accidents. There is no disagreement in the Committee that there is a need to ensure a level playing field for students when the accident may occur or damage occurs in the school situation or on the school path. Here the Committee is fully in line with the previous opinions of the Stortinget. However, the Committee noted that in June 2001 the Government appointed a selection to assess the various schemes that currently provide compensation/special advantages in the event of occupational injury. This sample shall also assess the provision of public funds for the compensation of pupils and students. The Vocational Injury Committee is due to give its opinion in May this year, and the Committee therefore considers it natural to refrain from making concrete proposals in this context. The Committee therefore intends to await the suspension of the sample, but assumes that during the current year the Government will return to the Grand Duchy with proposals for liability schemes to ensure that pupils, apprentices, students and children in kindergarten in the event of accidents affecting the lives and health of individuals. I recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e625	As one of the proposers, I am actually pleased that the Committee has come to a unanimous vote. This case has gone back and forth. The majority has stated on several occasions that students must be guaranteed a level playing field, i.e. equal arrangements when the accident is over. In today’s vote, the Committee refers to previous consideration of the matter, where the need to ensure a level playing field for students in the event of an accident was underlined. The Committee further states that ‘they believe that the financial security of the students in the event of injury needs to be improved’. In fact, I think that Stortinget has brought this matter to light again. There are several previous governments that have failed, and have not done what the Storting has asked them to do. Now there's a new decision here, and I actually believe that the government will follow this up, so that we can come to a final clarification. We're not very concerned about the way it's done. But the injustice and inequality that families who have had children in school who have suffered accidents have experienced, wants the Storting to end. Today it is that you live in one municipality and the child is injured, you get a certain amount of compensation. In other places, you might get a much higher compensation. We want clear liability arrangements to ensure that students who are exposed to this need good and equal conditions, regardless of where they live in the country. I hope that the Government will take this work seriously and come back with proposals that the Storting can decide on later in 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e638	The government is taking this seriously. I have read with interest the Committee's position and share the view of the need for a common regulatory framework that ensures that students have a reasonable minimum financial compensation in the event of accidents and injuries at school or at school events. Today’s schemes where some school owners have taken out insurance and others have not provided satisfactory protection for some students. Nor do we know anything about the level of insurance or the amount of insurance taken out. So today's voluntary insurance does not necessarily provide sufficient protection either. I am therefore prepared to do something about this. However, designing new legal rules in this area is not a simple legal task. It must also be seen, as the Committee itself is concerned, in the light of the proposals made in the investigation by the Committee on Civil Protection. According to the mandate, the committee will present its investigation by 1 May 2003 and it would be natural to await the outcome of the hearings for the investigation. In order to ensure that a proposal for the Storting has the necessary quality, I believe that it is not advisable to come back to the Stortinget with proposals already during 2003, as the Committee asks. I would rather put forward a matter in the spring of 2004. However, this is time enough for the law to come into force from the 2004–2005 school year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e649	I'm very pleased with the Council's response. I think I am talking on behalf of the majority of the population when I say that the matter comes on the agenda in the spring of 2004, so that the law can come into force from the school year 2004–2005, I think it is satisfactory. So we're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e654	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2 [[Fotation, see page 1790]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e674	Today there are 100,000 teachers in political strikes. They believe that a transfer of responsibility for negotiations on pay and working conditions from the state to the municipalities will give less equality in school. I understand that teachers believe that pay and working conditions are important for their situation, but I cannot see that this transfer will have adverse consequences. On the other hand, I think it will increase school political commitment and responsibility in the municipalities. It will enhance the focus on the social responsibility of the school. The school has a great social responsibility. In cooperation with the parents, it shall develop children into «given man». In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the good school is to convey cultural heritage, values and knowledge, but also to help children master, unfold, and social development. Making children conscious of their own identity is creating security and root fixation. The good school should also provide competence. The Christian People's Party will develop a learning environment where it is challenged to learn through exploratory self-activity rather than traditional teaching characterized by more passive and receptive learning. By shifting focus from teaching to learning, knowledge becomes a result of a learning process in which the student is involved in developing his or her own skills. Knowledge and competence enable students to influence their own everyday life and future. Competence and knowledge in our society are more important keys to business and well-being than natural resources and machines. The good school should also contribute to social cohesion. It is a strength for our welfare society that the differences are not too large. It helps to create solidarity and sympathy, and prevents social unrest and conflict. By providing students with opportunities to develop their own skills and facilities, they can influence their own future. They come to school with different backgrounds and ballast. If the school succeeds in balancing the differences, the school must be able to see individual life and its needs and challenges to a greater extent than today. If the school fails to meet the needs of individual life, the requirement for alternatives will become stronger. This is therefore about the future of the school as a school for everyone. School research shows that students’ background has a significant impact on learning outcomes and outcomes. This is not new knowledge, but the importance of this has been neglected in the school debate for a long time. In Norway today, about half of the population live. 1.5 pst. by the population below the poverty line. This means that at least 20 00 children have lived under very poor economic conditions for more than 10 years. The research shows that children take after their parents in both education and working life. This suggests that children growing up in poverty have difficulty breaking out of poverty even at adult age. The PISA study to the OECD also shows that there is a significant correlation between performance and the cultural background of the home. The level of education, social status and the material standard of the home are important for the school performance of children, says the OECD in ‘Education Policy Analysis 2002’. Christian People's Party has been given a new family policy argument when Professor Asbjørn Birkemo points out that the most important thing is the home environment, and families with two adults give the greatest odds of creating school winners. Stable adult relationships provide the child with the necessary safety and attention and contribute positively to the learning process. School research refers partly to significant differences in learning outcomes and outcomes. Some of this is very worrying. The greatest attention has been paid to the differences in reading skills. A large group of students, about 20 pst., don't have functional reading skills. Most of them are boys. Furthermore, we look at the character statistics that girls have better grades than boys over and over. This may indicate that school is more suitable for girls than for boys. With regard to the allocation of resources, it seems that resource-intensive parents are able to make ‘their’ schools winners in the fight for the school crowns, meaning several hours and more special pedagogical measures. It already reinforces existing differences between strong and weak students, and we get social reproduction. We also see that the background of parents is important for young people's choices of choice. In Norwegian school policy, there has been a great deal of expansion about public school as a school for everyone. Many have argued that the single school has given the weakest starting point, and the good have developed their talent. However, research shows that we have not succeeded. The single school has not given equal opportunities to develop. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the school gives all students the opportunity to develop their abilities and facilities and influence their own future. Schools should contribute to social mobility. But research instead shows that the school reproduces the differences in today's society. It seems that the school is unable to achieve its social mission. This is a challenge that must call for greater political interest. We need to design strategies for the school that respond to this challenge. From the Christian People's Party we believe it is important to take advantage of the educational space we have in school, and to focus on the following areas: 1st@item: inlistbox We must allow more individualisation in school. With it, individual life comes into focus through organised work programmes, individual training courses and organised education.2. We need to accept local differences in learning material and working methods in order to create a relevant learning environment and create motivation among students.3. We need new curricula that focus more on learning goals than on nuclear material and method.4. We need better cooperation at home/school to stimulate the learning culture at home. If the school is to succeed in developing the students, we have to be willing to look at the organization as well as the educational content. We politicians cannot take over the role of teachers in this, but we can set targets for where we want the school to work. Then we must have the loyalty of the student. It is therefore an important goal for Norwegian school policy to give all children equal rights to education and to develop a good public school for all children. I have shown in this article that recent school research shows great differences in, among other things. reading skills and differences between girls and boys. The studies suggest that the school maintains social, economic and cultural differences. These differences hamper children's ability to shape their own future. My question to the Council of State will therefore be: What strategies will the Council of State follow to balance the differences that schools maintain?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e719	I agree with the representative Lyngstad that the main objective of Norwegian school is to ensure good quality training, and that all children and young people should have equal opportunities to develop knowledge, values and attitudes. There is a general consensus that Norwegian schools have many qualities. Schools have considerable resources, including in international contexts. These are many competent and committed teachers and school leaders. At the same time, there are many indications that the school should and can improve. International studies provide us with information on Norwegian students' knowledge and skills in important areas, and they provide the basis for comparing us with other countries. The PISA study has contributed to the detection of weaknesses in our school system and has aroused great debate both at our and at international level. The study shows, inter alia: in Norway, there are mid-term results in reading, mathematics and natural sciences, high levels of dissemination within each school, especially in reading, great differences between girls and boys in reading, poor learning strategy and low motivation for reading in leisure time, a lot of unrest in school and a clear correlation between home background and outcomes. It is reasonable to interpret the results in such a way that Norway stands out positively from other countries by the fact that there are small differences between pupils with different economic backgrounds and differences in parental education. However, other measures of domestic resources, expressed as cultural capital, appear to be of greater importance. Norwegian research results show that the family background of the students is of great importance for the performance and professional development of the students. Other countries appear to be able to combine equality and quality in a better way than Norway. There is a broad consensus that literacy and understanding are fundamental to students' further learning, work and quality of life. I am therefore very serious about the fact that such a large proportion of Norwegian students are weak readers. I will not, on the basis of these results alone, generally claim that the Norwegian school maintains differences between students. However, the results give clear indications that home background is more important than in other countries and more important than we like to believe, and that the school does not succeed in counteracting the impact of social and cultural differences. International studies cannot provide us with final solutions to our challenges. But they show what other countries have done to achieve, thus providing important knowledge and direction for our work on improving the quality of training. In its analyses of the PISA results, the OECD highlights the following key points as important lessons: quality and equivalency are not mutually exclusive resources important to ensure quality in education, but resources alone are not sufficient to ensure quality motivation and interest in school work in general and for reading are particularly important to increase pupils' performance and to compensate for family backgrounds better in schools where demands are made for them, where there is a positive climate for learning, good discipline and good relations between teachers and students where there is a strong focus on outcomes, combined with independence for schools, tend to have good results These analyses provide an important basis for improving the quality of initial training. To balance differences between pupils, schools need greater freedom. It's the school itself that knows best how to meet the different needs of each student. School management and teachers need to show greater trust and responsibility. The State should take greater care to set objectives and framework conditions and take responsibility for a system to measure the extent to which objectives are achieved and to guide and support when they are not achieved. In my view, therefore, there is a need to give greater local freedom of action by simplifying legislation and legislation, developing a national quality assessment system that provides us with more knowledge of what results, and developing a good tool for guidance, support and dissemination of experience as a basis for improvement. I believe that provisions which unduly bind the organisation and implementation of training should either be abolished or amended. The proposal for changes to the Training Act is being consulted, as we know, and amendments will be promoted for Stortinget in the spring session. Together with the determination of the number of hours for each subject, and the reading obligation for the teachers, the classification rules strongly bind the organisation of the school. In my opinion, it is the individual school itself that is best able to assess what is the most appropriate organisation of training, not the ministry. One of the proposals now being heard is therefore to replace today's classification rules with a requirement of pedagogically sound education, while also to hear the views of the hearing bodies on the issue of indicative resource standards. The working time agreement also affects the organisation of school work and thus the possibility of individualised training. It is interesting to note the good experience of the many attempts at deviations from the working time contract that are currently being carried out. By organising students and teachers more flexibly, it is also possible to achieve the goal of adapted training in a better way. It reports both teachers and students. In addition to increased space for action, there is a need for more systematic knowledge of the quality of school provision both nationally and locally. The size has agreed to develop a national quality assessment system. It is important that information on the school's resources, the quality of the learning environment and the results of the students are available to all interested and responsible as long as it does not conflict with privacy. The aim of quality assessment and visibility of results is to provide the basis for improvement at all levels. In the autumn of 2003, the national online quality portal will provide information on exam results, resource situation and tools to monitor the learning environment of students. Work has started on developing national samples in mother tongues, mathematics and English and the aim is to carry out these tests in the 2003–2004 school year. In order to encourage efforts to improve the quality of training, we also introduced in 2002 a probationary system for schools that are distinguished. This will be continued. Demonstration schools undertake to contribute actively to quality development in other schools for a period of two years. In cooperation with the Municipal Councils of Central and Eastern Europe, we will also introduce a quality price for school owners from 2003 onwards. The purpose of the prize, as well as giving honor and honor to municipalities and county councils that are very positive, is to stimulate school owners to systematically develop quality. School owners are responsible for the competence of individual school staff to meet their needs and have to manage the means to recruit and maintain competent school managers and teachers. The negotiating responsibility for teachers has therefore been transferred to the municipalities with effect from 1 May 2004. I am convinced that this can help us to get both better owners and employers at school. School owners are also responsible for the ability of school staff to renew and upgrade their skills. The task of the State is to ensure the development of good and relevant provision of continuing education and training and to support the development of competences in areas that are important for the achievement of national education policy objectives. The development and strengthening of management at school as a knowledge organisation is important in making all stages of the school system responsible. The government has therefore taken the initiative in developing new continuing training courses in school management and its own master’s degrees. It is important that teachers appear to be clear adults and leaders. The government, together with the Children’s Ombudsman, the Parental Committee of Primary Schools, the KS and the Education Association, has therefore signed a manifesto in which everyone commits to work against bullying. All municipalities are offered to participate in an action programme against bullying and antisocial behaviour in 2003. We have adopted a new teacher training course. But teachers also need to update, and they deserve to have the opportunity to get up to date. The Ministry therefore supports the development and implementation of courses providing basic training for the educational use of ICT. In addition, support is provided for the development of continuing training offers in Norwegian with emphasis on reading and writing, mathematics, English, natural sciences and other foreign languages where ICT is focused on training in the subjects. From the fall, teachers can apply for up to NOK 100000 in scholarships for further education in mathematics, Norwegian with emphasis on reading and writing and Sami. In addition, in order to increase the basic literacy skills of pupils, we have increased the number of hours in Norwegian at the small school stage with effect from the 2002–2003 school year. The learning centre has been given the task of drawing up a plan for strengthening reading skills and literacy, and 20 million have been allocated. to enhance the competence of schools in the use of school libraries. As part of the cooperation on the cultural school system, the Ministry of Culture and the Church will contribute to the dissemination of literature. Real science is a particular challenge. To reverse this negative trend, a strategy has been developed for strengthening real subjects for the period 2002-2007. The aim is to increase the quality of real-life vocational training at all stages, to promote more positive attitudes towards real-life education and to improve recruitment for studies and occupations. The quality committee, which looks at the structure and content of the entire initial training course, gives its place at the beginning of June. In the light of the political decisions taken in government and growth after that, it will be natural to develop new curricula. My goal is to be simpler and to have clearer goals and less emphasis on methods and activities that will be more up to the teacher and the school themselves to determine according to local needs and needs. I believe that we must have ambitious goals for all students in Norwegian school. The country needs to set clear targets, which clearly show what is expected, and more attention needs to be paid to learner outcomes. At the same time, schools must have a high degree of freedom in the choice of instruments to achieve their objectives. At the same time, we must recognize that the school alone cannot stand for all learning. What happens at home is also of great importance. Therefore, good home school cooperation needs not only to focus on practical matters, but also on the importance of e.g. reading at home. I think the word ‘learning culture’ used by the representative Lyngstad was very good. In my view, the state’s contribution must concentrate in particular on providing school owners and schools with the necessary space for action, ensuring the establishment of a quality assessment system and targeting means of guidance and development against the documented challenges in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e787	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I feel that we share the reality of the challenges that we face in ensuring that the school also solves its societal mission of balancing differences. Governments addressed many measures that were now underway. There are many good measures. But what I experienced was a bit of the core of what the Council of State had in mind, was to exploit or create the local space for action at the individual school. This is a perspective that we in the Christian People's Party share. I think it's incredibly important to give self-confidence to exploit the educational freedom of action that exists in school. Therefore, it is also incredibly important to communicate the good examples that exist, to other schools, so that it is not just local experiences. I think it's also important, as the Council of State said, that one gives teachers leave and skills development opportunities to enter new ideas and give them self-confidence to get started on their own. The greater local freedom of action must also be used to develop more flexible arrangements in the organisation of schools than we can do today. Class/grouping is a problem and a challenge here, but I think it's also a lot to do with schoolrooms to find flexible solutions. However, I would say that the biggest challenge we have to balance and stimulate students' learning ability is to create what I call a culture of learning and understanding that learning is important and central. It's about learning strategies, but it's also about valuation. Here, in cooperation with the parents, I think we have a major challenge in focusing on the importance of learning culture. Perhaps it is the case, as the Council of State pointed out, that home-school cooperation must not only be about practical matters, but also about parental guidance to a certain extent in relation to motivation and awareness of learning strategies. Because we know that in the future, learning will take place from children to adults, cf. the technology challenge. Then this becomes so important with learning strategies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e794	In my opinion, there is something very, very important about public school. Not all humans have the same abilities and talents. We're different, and that's why we also have to meet differently, because that's what's equivalent. I think that a very central ambition by wishing for a single school, a common school, a public school, is that all students, regardless of their background, whether we are talking about the material background or other kind of background, should be allowed to reach out for their own abilities and talents based on their own premises. I think that's very central. To the extent that we don't succeed in doing this, which may be certain signs that we're not doing, I think it might be the biggest challenge we have in Norwegian school. So you don't have to be judged for a future because of your background. It's a self that should have the ability to stretch to its own abilities and talents. When we say that we want to improve the quality of Norwegian school, it's partly about the learning environment, partly about the average learning outcomes, but it's also about reducing the differences. What's interesting is that some countries get this better at the same time. They have both higher quality and smaller differences. It shows that there's no necessary contradiction between this, and we have to go for that. In some of the countries that make it better, it seems that what they do is adapted training. They check the students’ development along the way and make it easier for them to take action on a timely basis and actively pursue customised training on an individual basis. It is interesting to note that, to my knowledge, the same countries also have more flexibility in teaching and working forms, among others. know that they do not have the kind of rigid classification rules that we have in Norway. On the other hand, it is also very important that we do not obtain this quality assessment system just to run with control. What's meant is that we can get better, and that's what's part of the weakness of leaving the school, that it's too late to apply improvement measures if it turns out that you haven't learned to read when you leave the primary school. Therefore, these screening tests and a good guidance, development and support apparatus are essential to assist students in the process. What we're going to help them with is two things. On the one hand, they need to learn something, but they also need to learn how to use good learning strategies. Finally, the source of success is a society in which lifelong learning becomes so important. Then you have to learn to learn, and then you have to acquire techniques to learn even after you have finished school. Home school collaboration is also central. It is part of the law, and it has something to do with practice and competence. I know that the Parental Committee for Primary School comes up with proposals for the Ministry on changes in this area, and it's also a topic for the Quality Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e809	The claim made by the interpellant in its interpellant is alarming, namely that studies ‘suggest that the school maintains social, economic and cultural differences’, which even ‘restrict the children’s ability to shape their own future’, as the interpellant writes. The statement is almost sensational. For nearly 100 years, there has been a broad political consensus that the school of unity has been the foremost arena for eradicating social, cultural and economic differences between children, between the children of Jørgen hatmakers and the children of King Solomon. The representative Lyngstad argues in his post that rich nuclear families have children who succeed. Poor single-parenters reproduce social inequalities. Then he argues with greater freedom and with the lifting of the classification rule and some such technical things. One would think that if it were so that rich parents had children who succeeded, and that poor parents had children who reproduced social inequalities, the answer would have been more fair distribution. But the answer was no greater fair distribution. The answer was a number of school pedagogical interventions, estimating one action better than the other. If that's in the economy the problem lies, Lyngstad should answer with greater fair distribution. There's reason to question why this sudden change of mood in the Christian People's Party is coming right now when it comes to the school of unity. Perhaps it has something to do with the fact that the Right-State Council has now put forward a proposal on the excellence of private schools. Problem No. 1 in school is neither incompetent teachers nor unmotivated students. It is primarily public poverty in the richest country in the world. We have agreed on this during the debate we have had today. The Christian People's Party and the representative of Lyngstad's loyalty to the Right Party programme are admirable here, and I think it is a little surprising. Vice-Chairman of the Christian People's Party, Odd With, said earlier to the Evening Post that one reason for joining the government with the Right was that then you can dampen the negative side of the partner. That's what Odd With said. I then ask: Is the representative Lyngstad satisfied with the influence of the Christian People's Party on the Right Council, and in what direction has the influence of the Christian People's Party possibly distorted the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e822	The issue addressed by the interpellant is directly addressed in the current school policy debate. It is shown, among others: to the research that says that the single school has not given all students equal opportunities, and even that the single school reproduces inequality. Then we have a school strike among the teachers right now. The teachers strike because the municipalities have obtained the right to negotiate in terms of pay for teachers, and because this threatens the school of unity. You strike for something that you haven't achieved with the school system we have. I must also be allowed to distance myself from the consensus that the Labour Party's representative seemed to indicate here that it is the public poverty that is the problem. When the Workers' Party manages to create a majority in the Biggest to grant DKK 5 billion more to the kindergartens, it doesn't testify that you're aiming to strengthen the school, and that there's municipal poverty out there and going, because it's just the municipalities that are being allocated this money, that they really don't want, and that they're not allowed to use to strengthen the school. I think that much of the policy and many of the measures implemented by the current government and the majority of the population are part of meeting the needs of the interpellant. Quality and creativity in school and school life are fundamental to the current school policy. Mastering a profession, knowing something is one of the most enjoyable things we can experience as human beings. If we want to get our students and students to master their profession, know their skills, we give them a very great individual joy and opportunity and not least right. In addition, we meet society’s needs for good workers with good expertise and good quality in research and education. In addition, this provides the opportunity for social mobility with good expertise and education. It is perhaps the greatest opportunity we have to give everyone an equal opportunity and equal ability to achieve in social and professional life. But with the policies that have been pursued by previous regimes, we have achieved the exact opposite. We're on a much better road today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e833	The Council of State made a statement on the importance of learning outcomes. I myself have stressed in an earlier case that we have rather mediocre results, among other things. in literacy. Reading skills are also a key element in this case. I'm going to be very concrete. When this government joined, part of the school effort in the first financial year, the 2002 budget year, was 100 million. SEK to one additional Norwegian hour for the 2nd to 4th class steps from the autumn of 2002, i.e. the first half of the school year 2002 to 2003. Finally, it was also fixed to ensure that the funds actually arrived at the one Norwegian hour per person. week. My question, which I hope the Council of State can answer, is: how is this carried forward in the budget for the current year? The current year, the 2003 financial year, actually covers two school years. It covers the end of what started in 2002, which was, therefore, set aside funds for a six-month extra effort. And it covers the first half of the school year 2003-2004. How have funds for this additional Norwegian hour, which hopefully will contribute to increasing literacy, continued in the 2003 budget year? If the answer is that it has not been passed on, it must mean that it has changed its view on whether these are correct and important measures and instruments. I hope not. How it's made clear, if it's carried on, I'm excited to hear it. Now that I'm staying a little bit up on this, it's not just because the reading skills are mentioned, but because I've also read the action plan that relates to the real subjects. In this case, you're left with the same means of working, that you're busy getting extra hours to the subject, in this case real science, into mathematics. It is suggested that this should be taken into account in the 2004 budget. So there you have a parallel. This real-life action plan suggests that there is faith in the action. It should also be shown that what started with Norwegian education in the 2002 budget year is, in fact, clear, clear and documented in the current year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e842	I would like first of all to commend the representative Arne Lyngstad for taking up and pointing out an important matter. A school that maintains the social, economic and cultural differences is a school that has failed in many ways. A school that accumulates winners and losers, we can't accept. Both the PISA study and the Asbjørn Birkemos study of student outcomes in Norway suggest that the school does not provide all students with equal opportunities for professional progress and later careers. There is a wide dispersal of the results of the students. The research suggests that it is not primarily due to random variations, but differences related to the background of parents and large differences between the sexes. I think there are more answers to this challenge. But what I also know is that the government's answer is not correct. They're not going in the right direction. I believe that it is essential to be able to offer an education that is adapted to the students' own assumptions. I think the reason many students fall off is because they don't feel that teaching is related to their own experiences and their own interests. Education is largely conducted in large groups of 20-30 students at a time, and there is limited individual adaptation to such a situation. It's about several things. First of all, we need enough qualified teachers. The new figures show that the number of teachers and teaching staff has decreased by 4 pst. from the school year 1998 to 1999 until 2002 to 2003. In the same period, the number of assistants in school has increased by 4.5 pst. This suggests a development in which we get fewer qualified teachers and cheaper and more unqualified workers into school. At the same time, we also need to strengthen the provision of training for teachers. But the opposite happens now. The money that has previously been spent on the municipalities, where the municipalities themselves have been allowed to decide and the schools themselves have been allowed to decide what the training offer for teachers should be, has been cut and transferred to this called strengthening of the real subjects. Secondly, it is about using more varied teaching methods. I think the Norwegian schoolwork is too much built around abstract and theoretical approaches. This approach favours children who have grown up with parents with academic backgrounds. At the same time, fresh GSI figures also show that there has been a dramatic decrease in the number of split hours and that hours of special education have fallen. There are a lot of things that are important. One thing is access to good libraries. Reading and writing skills are a lot about having good access to the library and getting acquainted with the library and its offerings. Government policies reduce the possibility of equalising differences between students by giving schools more difficult framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e859	In school, the human being is shaped, and then you should slow down, it's said. As much as education is about human creation. That is why the Christian People's Party is betting on a good public school. If we call it a high school or a high school, it's not crucial. It's the content that's most important. When an OECD report shows that there are major differences in Norwegian school, we will take it seriously and do something about it. This OECD report recommends greater local freedom of action, stronger performance orientation and measures to increase students’ literacy, as important instruments for increasing quality and minor differences. We've been discussing local autonomy today, and I can only stress again that the Christian People's Party will further develop the local school. Through pilot schemes, we want to develop a more flexible school. In addition to local trials, school renewal should result from a review of school curricula and legislation. That's how we get a better school that's close to the people who use it -- both students, parents and teachers. The school embraces all children and shall at the same time challenge each individual student on the basis of individual assumptions and needs. This implies that school life must be marked by diversity and diversity, yet firmly anchored in local conditions. The school will challenge the pupils’ work and learning capacity on the basis of individual needs, interests and assumptions, and students will also have to have a real influence on the design of everyday school life. It needs to be opened up in order to have a stronger and more qualitative cooperation between school and home. Such cooperation is necessary, inter alia: To face the problems of bullying and violence that we hear in school. They ruin the lives of a lot of students. The cultural background of the home is important. It's not a place of residence or an economy, but, as Professor Birkemos' research shows, the home environment is crucial, as the interpellant pointed out. The parent role must also come into focus. In the journal Education, no. 1 this year, there is a study that shows that authoritative parents with heat and control have the most well-adapted children, while the worst-off children come from negligent parents. It has been a goal to challenge parents to participate in their children’s school days. That parental meetings also focus on parenting is therefore important. So it was the students' reading ability, which shows great variation. Here it also says in St.prp. No 1 that it is an area of initiative for the Government to stimulate the interest of students in reading, and thus also to strengthen the competence in the use of school libraries, which Lena Jensen was also involved in. There is something going on, I know, among other things. at Sandefjord secondary school, about the library as a pedagogical resource. The role of teachers also needs to be developed and teachers given opportunities for empowerment. The teacher is the key person in the school and a necessary driving force in school development.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e877	I also want to praise the interpellant for the theme he's addressing. I disagree with both the polemization used by the Workers' Party in relation to the interpellant, and with the one used by a representative of the Right in relation to the Workers' Party. I don't think we're going anywhere to drive polemizing that way. I think the interpellant addresses an important question. How are we going to make up some of the differences that are the result when the students leave school? How are we going to be able to do that through a 13-year-old race? I think the interpellant points to important things: putting the student in focus. So I think we have to organize our school around this one goal of putting the student in focus. In-flight evaluation, individual work plans and curriculums, I think it is very important to have in order to achieve this goal. The Council of State stressed that those countries that have managed to reduce differences have just focused on adapted training. And I've said several times from this pulpit that the most important concept we have in today's curriculum is the concept of 'adapted training', of being able to see the individual student with the abilities and opportunities that each student has. Then the challenge for the educational staff in school will be to build up under this, so that the student can achieve realistic goals. When we talk about college, someone's kind of talking a little ridiculous about it. I believe that the single school, the common school, or what we're going to call it, is actually the most important basis for us to get to this. There's room for everyone. All students shall be given the opportunity to develop there. But then we're kind of back to the messages we get: Is it possible to provide adapted training for the individual student according to the skills and facilities with the situation at school today? Then I think about resources. I think it's important that we review and evaluate how we use the resources. But it's clear that there's too little resources. There are too few adults in school today to be able to provide individual customized training. So when we're going to have this review of the resource situation and have adapted training as a goal, it's a very important element in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e890	I also think that Arne Lyngstad has taken a very right initiative, and in the focus here, as many say, is adapted training. It focuses on the weakest. Obviously, for the weakest students, a good public school is the most socially equalizing thing we can do. With regard to the very weakest students, the PISA study has shown that we're not as good with them as we thought we were good at. We've also got stories – most of us, I guess – from parents who feel that some students don't get a good enough offer, which also goes beyond the offer to the other students in the class. There's a lot of things we can do. First of all, I think it must be allowed to choose another type of school. In the old days, there were special schools. It must be for students to choose other ways of going to school, choose more practical ways and other ways of doing it, but focus should be on students’ choices based on their own assumptions. We also need to look at special education. We have to break down our systems, so that we can give kids a sense of mastery, even the kids who are usually the ones who usually hear that they don't master. I think that ageing is an important key to mastering young people. No children have the benefit of going to school for ten years with all the others and always being stupidest. Secondly, I think school management is a very important element in creating a common team, a common team, with a common superstructure that also helps the weakest. I think that the campaign Regeringa has started in relation to bullying, is important to break what we're doing today, to create losers of kids by destroying their childhood with bullying. So I'll spend the last 40 seconds talking a little bit about language and reading. I think we have to break some of our understandings about language. I think bilingualism among children is going to become more and more common. Maybe it's going to be the norm, and it doesn't have to be a problem. We need to develop pedagogics where there is no problem that some children actually know something more than other children. If we're going to be able to break the code for reading, we're not just going to put in Norwegian hours. The key is to find a way to work with reading that makes kids get an intense desire to break the code, because they want to know what it says right there. I think it's not just about Norwegian education, but also about our language and our books being part of all the other subjects we think are fun.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e903	I think the debate has shown that there are several people who have had some surprises about what school research has shown. At the same time, it seems to me that there is a relatively cross-political consensus that we need local freedom in order to develop the school better in the future, and that we need greater flexibility in the organisation of the school. We may have a slightly different emphasis on the concrete measures, but I very much agree with the Council of State that giving us greater local freedom, yes, we also need follow-up and in-flight evaluations. What is then important for the Christian People's Party to stress is that the in-flight evaluations are an instrument for further development of the school. That is why I am so pleased with the signal from the Council of State that it is important to follow up with guidance tools and local dialogue about this. I am also pleased that the Council of State says that in a future curriculum revision we need to focus more on goals than method. But if I were to allow myself a little critical comment, it had to be that I also think it necessary to think through the emphasising of nuclear material, and at least the massive piece of nuclear material that today's curriculum focuses on. I think it's also necessary to open up local substances that have relevance to the students, so that they realize that learning concerns them. Then I'm very happy that many people underline this with adapted training. Many people point to the importance of resources. Yes, I do not ignore and will not deny that resources are important, but at the same time – as Professor Birkemo has said – I believe that the problem is not the resources, nor is the problem the pedagogical poverty. And it's a challenge for school and those who work at school. Finally. When I deal with this, it's not because I want to maintain economic differences. Reports show that the economy has no bearing on learning outcomes. But when I learned that children from poor homes remain among the poor in society, it was just to show that we need a school that can compensate for this. And then it's that it becomes so important that the school works evenly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e916	A specific question was asked, which I thought I would answer. But first I just want to stress what the representative Lyngstad was now at the end, and as a line to the contribution of the representative Eva M. Nielsen. The single school in Norway has been successful in balancing differences on the basis of economics and geography. In Norway, to a small extent, what is often referred to as ‘A’ and ‘B’ schools. Our problem is, rather, that there are great differences between students within each school, yes, often within each class, which means that Norwegian teachers have very big challenges. It's more related to the so-called cultural capital that you have at home, that is, where the school interest in the home is, so to speak. So the question is what do we do with that? Then you can do something through school co-operation, I think, so that homes can be better equipped to contribute. The second is that you can better compensate for it at school, through better-adapted training. Of course, resources are very important. But if you look at the Nordic countries, the countries that have failed most to balance these differences, Norway and Denmark, are the ones that have the highest teacher density and the most resources. So it must also have something to do with organization and pedagogics, as the representative Lyngstad was inside. These are the thoughts we must have in our head at the same time, as we have also been in previous debates. So to the specific question of Norwegian hours. That, of course, has been continued in the budget. When entered with a half-yearly effect, the impact — as indicated in the Ministry of Finance’s language — is adjusted throughout the year into the budget. It's fixed to the regulations, like the trade-and-hour distribution in general. In the case of other subjects and whether to change the composition of hours, increase the number of hours, etc., there are a lot of desires and demands, both in relation to subjects at school – a little too many, I think, for what you can expect the school to do. But all in all, I have found it right to await the Quality Committee's setting to get an overall assessment of it. Because if all these desires were to be fulfilled, our children had to be at school 24 hours a day and well, so it just doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e927	That is the examination of case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e940	The situation in the Norwegian and Nordic power markets has been very difficult in winter. This is because over the last ten years we have had a consumption growth of 18-19 TWh, while the increase in production has only been around a sixth part. It goes without saying that when there is so much difference between supply and demand in a market, it goes wrong. The party of progress has for many years warned against this imbalance, but unfortunately we have spoken for deaf ears. The result of this market imbalance has been an explosive development of electricity prices, as well as a risk of rationalisation and decoupling. Statoil and Statnett planned to set up a mobile gas power plant on Kollsnes to ensure the supply situation in the worst affected area. They had applied for and received a concession for this. However, the project was scrapped when the power price in the market fell significantly and made the project unprofitable. However, a fall in the power price has not resulted in the power crisis in any way. Last week the Energy and Environment Committee received a briefing from the NVE, which made it clear that there are still major problems with security of supply and very low levels of water storage. I was in contact with Statnett yesterday, and they also claimed that the power situation in Norway is still very worrying. This is particularly the case in South Norway. New figures on magazine filling, power generation and power exchange with the rest of the world are clear for the past week. The magazine fillings are now 38,4 pst, and this is a decrease of 2,3 pst. during the last week. In the western region, from Sauda in Rogaland to Fardal in Sogn, the situation is even worse, with a magazine filling of only 36,7 p.m. A mobile gas power plant in this region will be an important measure to address an exceptional situation. This facility can supply 50 000 to 60 000 households with electricity. However, the output is too small to affect the electricity price. It will primarily increase security of supply in this region. However, there are some costs with such a temporary plant. It is estimated that the power plant should have a minimum operating time of four months, with a power price of around 45 cents to be profitable. In order to eliminate the financial risk, this proposal proposes that the State cover the possible costs between the market price of electricity and the cost of production. In any case, this will only be a small fraction of the additional income received by the Norwegian State, for example. in the form of increased VAT revenue, as a result of an increase in the electricity price. If Statnett and NVE continue to consider that the additional production of the mobile gas power plant is necessary to guarantee the power supply, the Stortinget must ensure that the Government provides the necessary resources to guarantee Statoil’s investment. As I said at the outset, the power crisis is by no means over. I therefore hope that the Stortinget is now conscious of its responsibility and support this proposal, so that we can get the necessary safety of the power supply until the summer. With this, I would like to recommend the present proposal, literally, at the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e955	Much is happening in relation to the energy sector at present. It's a shame the initiative doesn't come from the Government. Three years ago, the Bondevik government chose to leave because it wouldn't expand any more power. A year and a half ago, the Workers' Party proposed a grant scheme to speed up the development of new power. A year and a half ago, the Workers’ Party proposed a grant scheme that would have continued power-saving measures in the thousands of homes and thus lower costs for customers. A year and a half ago, the Workers' Party proposed a grant scheme that would involve sources other than electricity for heating to avoid our dependence on electricity. And a year and a half ago, the Workers' Party proposed a scheme that would lead to a smarter way of using electricity, and that would get the price down. All the proposals were defeated by the government parties and the Progress Party. These batches have ensured that the bulk of the population has not invested in the development of new power, the use of other energy sources or power saving in recent years. Now they meet reality. The government meets it with loss of understanding. The Progress Party meets it with a number of populist proposals for which they know they do not get a majority. It is a little problematic to take the proposal very seriously today. But the situation is serious. Politicians have a responsibility to ensure that electricity prices in the energy nation of Norway become so that people can pay the bill. The working party understands the frustration we are now experiencing in relation to excessive power prices. We don't want to accept that the energy nation Norway has energy prices that people can't pay. What is even more serious is the threat to energy security in Norway. Until now, the government has been paralysed, and it advises people to go to the social community to solve the problems of paying the electricity bill. We believe that to be totally unacceptable. At the same time, Norway imports coal power, gas and nuclear power so that the pipelines are almost red-hot, to ensure enough electricity for the population and industry. And the Minister of Energy calls for more imports from these polluting energy sources instead of doing something in Norway as monks. We are pleased that the Government now, after two years of budgeting, supports the intention of installing heat pumps and alternative sources of heating. What is alarming in this situation is that if nothing is done about the energy situation in Norway, the situation on the energy market will be worse and worse for each year. With the government’s policies – announced policies – we will lack about. 43 TWh in 2010 if we get a dry year. The Minister of Oil and Energy is against gas power. Now he stands in favour of installing seven gas power plants as a respirator to keep alive the lights and the heat in our home. We basically think that's good. The situation with regard to mobile gas power stations will be equally current in the coming years. And when the Workers' Party took this up in an interpellation a year ago with the oil and energy minister, he arrogantly rejected the proposal to have gas turbines when you had problems on the energy side. It is incomprehensible that the Minister of Oil and Energy, on the one hand, is in favour of these mobile gas power plants, which thus pollutes much more than ordinary gas power plants, and on the other hand opposes the construction of gas power plants in Norway. For the Workers' Party it is important to look forward. Politicians need to find a solution to the power crisis in Norway. So because of low rain, we have too little power. Then maybe we should look at alternative energy sources. The Government and the Advance Party adopted a month ago the budget for 2003. We believe that in the Labour Party they should recognise and take responsibility for that. In this context, it might be interesting to hear where proposers will take money from if they are to collect money in relation to these mobile gas power stations. We can't see that there are any budget lines compared to that. There is only one solution to the situation that has now arisen. It is gas power, new renewable energy, alternative energy, water-borne heat, heat pump installation and smarter consumption. Finally, there will only be the expansion of more power and a better line network that will satisfy. Easy-to-use solutions to be addressed directly in the Chamber are not the views of the Workers' Party on the solution of this crisis. We build the country, and we do it in a thorough and thorough way. And with that reason, we will go against the proposal that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e981	I was rather surprised when I saw the proposal that we have to deal with today. Only a few months after the Progress Party in the budgetary agreement with the government parties made sure to increase the proceeds from Statnet by 200 million. kr, we get a proposal on the table that is justified by the fact that the West has special problems with the power supply, and that the Stortinget must therefore provide instructions and resources for Statnett and NVE, so that some of the plans for the temporary gas power plants in Kollsnes can be made. Then it might be tempting to ask where the coherence and logic of the economic arrangements of the Progress Party is. What we are seeing here is an example of a jojo policy that is absolutely incredible. First, they cut Statnett for 200 million. kr, which could have been used, for example, for strengthening the transfer capacity of the West, so that this lack of capacity could be used as a justification that Statnet now needs additional resources. Another thing is that the mobile gas power plants that we are talking about are extremely polluting. In this way, they are actually much worse than the stationary ones, to which the government has granted concession in the same place. After all, I spoke from the Government about CO2 management and the investment in this, I had to say that I made quite big eyes when I saw that there was actually a clear signal for these sausage cooks from the Government, and I was similarly relieved, of course, when we were informed that the project would not be carried out anyway. I think the government too should be quite relieved of that. If these mobile gas power plants had been put into operation, it would have caused a pretty ugly scratch in the environmental paint of the Government, and there it is starting to get pretty crowded around the place. The SV’s strategy in terms of future power supply, both in the West and in other regions, is to ensure that in the future we will house electricity in a much more sensible way, and that we will – and that is what we mean – bet on developing new renewable energy sources. The budgetary colleagues from the government parties and the Progress Party so far have contributed is all too welcome. This is why SV has put forward proposals to implement measures to make households less dependent on electricity for heating, which will result in electricity being released for other and much better purposes. It is, of course, commendable that the government, through the proposition put on the table for a short time ago, has proposed spending 50 million. kr for this purpose. But there is no doubt that this amount is too small. To date, 8 200 households have applied for support from the new scheme to be adopted by the Storting in a short time. The amount to be paid by the Government will only be able to reach approx. 9000 households. That means that unless the amount is increased and the scheme is made long-term, with a duration of at least ten years, this is almost like throwing the large majority of the half a million households that are now totally dependent on electricity for heating purposes, blues in their eyes. It is this that is the SV's strategy in relation to the power crisis, as well as introducing a two-price system for electricity and getting a full review of the Energy Act, of which we are increasingly seeing the major negative consequences. This is SV's alternative to forward party solutions, to what we have called the energy world's kebab truck, i.e. mobile gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e995	We have had a difficult power situation in winter. The government and the government parties at Stortinget take responsibility in the difficult situation we've been in. We have experienced an extremely dry year situation, with the driest harvest and the coldest winter in many years. When we know that 99 pst. of Norway’s electricity supply is based on hydropower, it is not to be avoided that this has consequences in the power market. The government has made a number of proposals, including: on a support scheme for households that will replace electric heating with more environmentally friendly alternative energy, e.g. from heat pumps and pellet stoves. We already see that the interest in twisting the consumption from one-sided use of electricity to domestic heating for the use of other energy carriers is great. This is one of the main challenges: reducing our dependence on electricity for heating. In this context, it is interesting to record the consistent resistance of the Progress Party to getting alternative, new energy sources into the market. They have systematically voted against any transfer of money to the Energy Fund and will liquidate Enova, the main tool we have for researching and commercialising new renewable energy. So the most effective thing we can do to get control of prices is the Progress Party. I find that paradoxical. The applications from Statoil to start up the temporary — or mobile — gas power plants in the West were quickly accepted by the NVE. The fact that the company did not find it profitable to make use of the concession in retrospect is simply to take note of it. But it has to be assumed that the expected price of electricity in the period for which they applied for a concession was too low for them to find the accounting equivalent. The government has now entered into dialogue with the power industry on what is going on to trigger the great potential of upgrading and modernising existing hydropower plants. It's in everyone's interest that the water resources we're already using are used as efficiently as possible. It is to be hoped that part of the modernisation projects that have so far been in the drawer will be brought forward and launched. These are important long-term measures to bring more power into the market, which lead to better use of power. In the short term, NVE has now launched a power saving campaign, which will make consumers aware of the fact that there is still a difficult power situation, even though prices are now falling. The government has proposed to use 20 million. kr to a campaign that can help Norwegian households reduce consumption, and thus also its own electricity bill, with additional measures and distortion of electricity consumption. There is some remarkable suggestion we have to deal with today, especially in the light of who actually travels it. Indeed, in its main comment in the vote on the budget for the 2003 framework of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Committee of the Regions states that: «is intended to energy as any other commercial product to be freely marketable and to be freely used by those operators who purchase energy on the market at all times, without any public interference». Furthermore, they write: ‘These members believe that there should be free competition between the various forms of energy carriers, without any form of subsidisation. Neither will these members use taxpayers’ money for other measures aimed at changing energy consumption, nor will they use increased taxes as a means of altering or reducing consumption. Any ENØK measure must be based on the economic gain of the individual.» When we look at these comments in the light of the proposal we have before us today, there is reason to ask how long the principles of the Progress Party actually last. The question that is also natural to ask is: Do not be afraid of what they have done and said in the past, for example. the strong commitment and belief that the market will regulate everything, when prices resulting from the free market are increasing? The Government Parties consider that the proposal of the Advance Party must be rejected. The gas turbines to which a concession has been proposed will be considered an exceptional measure that the Ministry of Oil and Energy is able to implement if the situation in the West so permits. Per. Today we are not in such a situation, although the situation is serious. With regard to the proposal to support this financially, it is, in the first place, irreconcilable from what I mentioned earlier. Secondly, the government parties on the Stortinget believe that financial support for such a measure is only relevant if the established market mechanisms, in which the Progress Party also has very strong faith, are not capable of ensuring security of supply. Otherwise, I record in a sense that in this situation, with such a heated debate, there are individual parties that obviously do not dare to see their own choices in their eyes when they now see the consequences of what they have actually fought very strongly to introduce, namely the deregulated market and the new Energy Act of 1991. The party of progress was in the front row. So now some of the voters of the Advance Party are a little bit concerned about the power bill, and then you run away from this principle and say, "We're not responsible for this." The Progress Party is co-responsible for the situation we are in. I must point that out from this pulpit. It should also be said in the light of the contribution from the Workers' Party that creating the impression that only the Workers' Party had got what they wanted, there would have been so much more power in the market. It's, with respect to reporting, not the situation. I feel that what the Government is doing through the will of action it is now showing the situation is taking responsibility for what it has been doing in the past, and for the difficult situation in which we stand in the middle. I wish the parties mentioned had done the same thing, but that is perhaps hoping too much. Finally, let me then recommend that the proposal contained in Document No. 8:51, is rejected by the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1037	The 1991 Energy Act has mainly worked as long as we have had plenty of energy. It has led to lower energy prices, and it has led us to avoid unnecessary expansion of new watercourses for a period of sufficient electrical energy supply. On the other hand, I think we all have to admit that in the situation we are in now, with the scarcity of electrical energy, the Energy Act has not proved to be equally satisfactory in terms of meeting the needs we are now facing. I don't think it will be in the years to come either. There's only one thing that will be crucial for whether it's being built up new capacity, and that's the price of electrical energy. That's why those who now make up speakers for the expansion of gas power plants are taking completely wrong when they think that the expansion of gas power plants would have saved us from the situation we're in today. When gas power plants have not been built until now, it is simply because prices have been too low. Because that's a concession. With the help of the Government, a concession has been granted for the construction of several gas power plants. They are not built, for the simple reason that prices have been too low. Even with today's high prices, concessionaires will not build up gas power, simply because they expect the future price picture to be such that it will not be profitable. This shows one thing. It shows that authorities need to intervene in order to ensure sufficient energy supply in the future. That's going to be the big challenge. It is remarkable that this proposal comes now, just a month after we dealt with the state budget, where the supply of electrical energy was almost not a topic. It was almost not inside the discussion at all. Statkraft and Statnett were deprived of almost all opportunities to make investments. In particular for Statnett, this is the case, with the high yields that the government parties and the Progress Party were able to achieve. It's a paradox that at an earlier stage you weren't able to deal with the energy crisis that we're now facing, either from the Government's side or from other parties here in the Chamber. Already in October it was clear to everyone that we would go into a period of low water and high electricity prices, and at worst a precarious supply situation. At that time, the Minister of Energy insisted that there was no basis for believing that prices would either rise or that we were heading towards a crisis. As late as the end of November, there was still a significant export. We have contributed on our own to putting ourselves in a very difficult situation. This should have been addressed at an earlier point in time. Proposals for alternative energy support schemes should not have been launched a short month after the budget was adopted – support schemes for the installation of pellet foam, heat pump, etc. That is a good suggestion. It will, of course, receive the support of the Centre Party, but this should have been included in the budget. One should have been able to predict the situation we are now in. The proposal put forward by the Progress Party will not at all remedy the situation. What is needed is to respond quickly to the challenge we face. The centre party considers it necessary to look at both energy law adjustments and grant funds to have existing power plants upgraded. We have a great potential to extract, maybe as much as 10 to 15 TWh. But those terawatt hours are not going to be taken out without the involvement of the authorities. They will not be released if only the market is essential for the investment and upgrading of existing power plants. It is necessary to strengthen the scheme of grants for alternative energy. It is also necessary, as the Centre Party proposed as early as October last year, for emergency reasons, to require a minimum level of water in the warehouses at the given time. It's totally wrong to think that this will lead to high prices. This may lead to high prices in periods, but it will lead to more stable prices. And the most important thing: it will lead us to avoid getting into acute crisis situations where we will see at regular intervals the face of the Council of State in the newspapers, and where the need for rationalization is discussed. It's a situation we as an energy nation shouldn't sit in.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1056	This winter has shown how vulnerable electricity supply is to low rainfall. The acquisitions of the power stations in the autumn of 2002 became the lowest recorded since measurements began in 1931. At the same time, winter came early, with colder weather than normal in the largest consumer areas in the Nordic region. Although there has now been a period of mild weather – today there is otherwise cold again – the power situation is still very worrying. Under normal weather conditions in the Nordic region in the coming weeks, Norwegian power supply is dependent on foreign supply and consumption reductions until snow smelting begins. Future developments depend very much on temperatures for the rest of the winter and when snow smelting comes in the mountains. The filling level in Norwegian water storage plants fell by 2.2 pst. from Monday of week 5 to Monday of week 6. The decline is greater than last week, but slightly less than earlier this winter. This relatively positive trend in recent times is mainly due to mild and wet weather. This has contributed to relatively low consumption and slightly more than usual over the season. In addition, the flow of power to Norway is significantly larger than the flow out earlier this year. The filling rate of the water reservoirs measured at the beginning of week 6 was 38,5 pst. The median level of filling at the corresponding time for the years 1990-2000 was 60,8 pst. The situation is particularly difficult in South Norway. Since the proposal refers to the risk of power failure in the West, I would like to take the opportunity to comment on developments in this area. As a result of extra low levels of magazine filling in the West at the time, Statnet split into four electricity spot areas with effect from 16 December last year in Norway. Norway is usually divided into two such areas, separated by Dovre. The two new electric spot areas go from Sauda in Rogaland to Fardal in Sogn and Fjordane, and from Fardal to Orkdal in South Trondelag. Such a breakdown reflects a somewhat different supply situation and was a signal among others. to the manufacturers in the production area to show caution. The new electricity spot areas mean that the prices in the area should be adapted to the local situation. The import capacity of the two areas has since benefited greatly, but prices have been largely the same as in the rest of South Norway and the Nordic countries. Because of the increase in Western aspirations in weeks 3 and 4, this area no longer stands out as particularly difficult compared to the rest of South Norway. However, if the intention is to be much lower than normal in the future, the situation may deteriorate. It would therefore not be natural to remove the division of areas in South Norway at this time. Providing Statnet and NVE frameworks to ensure that temporary gas power stations can reduce the vulnerability of electricity supply in the West must be considered an exceptional measure. This is not an environmentally friendly measure that should be included in the energy supply on a sustainable basis, but in view of the strenuous power situation in winter, I have nevertheless stated that this could be a reasonable temporary measure. In the case of financial support from the authorities for such an exceptional measure, this is initially only relevant if the power situation is so worrying that market solutions would not be sufficient to ensure a reasonable degree of likelihood of power supply, i.e. the implementation of the rationale. I would like to stress that if we come to the conclusion that the situation is so serious, we are able to take such measures. Such a measure must then be assessed in the same way as other rationale measures. To date, the situation has not been considered so seriously that the Government will go in and support such exceptional measures. I would also like to emphasise that I have been in favour of Statoil's and Statnett's initiative to provide such reserve capacity based on the company's business profitability assessments. Statoil applied on 13 January 2003, on behalf of Statoil, BKK and Statnett, for a concession under the Energy Act for a 150 MW power generation plant based on natural gas in Kollsnes. The application was justified in the strained power supply situation in winter. Consent for operation of the plant was applied for for for four months, from mid-February to mid-June, 2003. The concession request was given high priority in the NVE and was dealt with very quickly. The NVE paid particular attention to the very difficult supply situation and the need to prevent rations with their negative consequences. After the concession was granted, Statoil has signaled that the concession will not be used because of the economy of the project. I therefore take note that the companies did not find it appropriate to implement the plans as the market situation changed. In the light of the experience gained in the autumn and winter, there is a clear need for measures to ensure that we have satisfactory security of supply also in dry weather and in extreme weather conditions. In relation to this, I fully agree with what the representative Odd Roger Enoksen said in his article on the description of the situation. That has also evolved in such a way that it was actually only Odd Roger Enoxen who could predict that we had such a critical situation afterwards, gets to be a matter for themselves. But it emphasizes the seriousness. Norway’s strong dependence on hydropower makes us very vulnerable to alternating rainfall, and we have to do something about this vulnerability. I have therefore started a targeted work in my department to review the legislation and market mechanisms of the energy market, where security of supply is a major issue. The aim of such a review is to implement different measures, so that this together can prevent such a situation in the power market that we have had in winter. There must then be three important recognitions: firstly, that there is too little power in the Nordic energy market; secondly, that Norway is too dependent on hydropower; and, therefore, that there must be an energy conversion in which other environmentally friendly energy carriers must relieve hydropower; and thirdly, that we must work to remove the bottlenecks in the market that exist today, and to improve the cabling to the rest of the world, so that we have a security to be able to import the necessary force this year that is exceptional.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1089	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1092	If the Labour Party had received a majority in favour of its request for disclosure obligations in 1990, we – that is my claim – would have had 10–12 TWh more in Norway. The Council of State was concerned with some important things in relation to what had to be done, and summed up with three confessions. At the same time, he is very positive in relation to mobile gas plants and to grant concession to it. Then it should be quite curative to help to get the gas power plants that have already received a concession started. Natural forces say that if they clarify the policy lines and have the same competitive conditions as competitors, they will start building gas power plants. The Workers' Party has called for initiatives from the Government to achieve this. My question will then be: will the Government confirm that the Government is in relation to the decision to grant Norwegian gas power plants the same framework conditions as gas power stations in the EEA area?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1101	With regard to Klungland's main posts, I would say that it was quite obvious how he characterized the contributions of the Progress Party as populist. I wondered what words I would use to characterise the comments of the representative Klungland. But then came the conclusion, which was good. There was a lot in Klungland's posts that were marked by clear disclaimer and a description of reality seen with a severe rift in the eye. Let it go! For disclosure, the Labour Party has had five energy ministers in the 1990s, each of whom could have made proposals for the Storting to amend the Energy Act at this point. It wasn't done. It is likely that the five energy ministers would have recognised that this would have led to a significantly higher electricity price in the market. If this is what the Workers' Party is applying for, it can still be proposed. The second concerns gas power plants. Clear guidelines are requested from the natural force side, says the representative of Klungland. The guidelines that Natural Force has been given to work on in the given concession have been given by the government of Stoltenberg, from the Workers' Party. This government has not changed a comma in the concessions and requirements – both for the environment and for other emissions. The Labour Party is therefore responsible and has a majority in the Stortinget – against the votes of the Christian People's Party – for these conditions. If it is the case that the Workers' Party has come up with different ideas, it is something new, but I expect that the conditions laid down by a majority in the Stortinget still apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1111	The persistent crisis of the winter in the power market has obviously not yet led the Council of State to grasp the seriousness of the situation. It surprises me. The government's so-called measures to meet this challenge are, to say the least, puzzled things. I assume, of course, that the Council of State, like me, is in constant contact with both the NVE and Statnett about the serious situation we are still in, and that can quickly be dramatically exacerbated if we have a longer cooling period. I would therefore ask: does not the Council of State trust the highest expertise we have in Norway in this area, since he has still not understood the seriousness of the situation and will not do anything to increase the production of force?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1118	This is a very worrying situation in the power market. It is so serious that I have also been willing to resort to exceptional solutions, which are not in line with the environmental requirements that one would otherwise have set for energy production. I have also put in place exceptional measures to make households save electricity and by contributing to an energy conversion, which is not only sensible for households' finances but will also relieve the electricity grid. In conclusion, I came to my post, hopefully before the representative Vaksdal wrote his reply, into three important confessions that we should also be able to stabilise and improve the energy balance in the longer term, so that we do not get into a situation similar to the one we are currently in. In this respect, it must be added that the level of congestion in the warehouses is so high that it is likely that a long period of precipitation is needed to stabilise the situation accordingly. I am listening to the NVE and Statnett, and I can confirm that there is ongoing contact with just these institutions, which are under the ministry. It is also in consultation with these that the policy is designed, and it is upon their advice that we take the necessary measures. I therefore stress that the situation would be further exacerbated and more critical, there are instruments and measures that can be put in place to prevent what none of us wants, namely rationalisation. So far we have got this, thanks to good help from private households, industry and government that have helped save electricity, but not least thanks to a favourable weather development in January, which I hope we will also be able to experience in winter. It is clear that it will be important for a favourable development in the power market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1127	Initially, I cannot resist the temptation to remind the representative, Mr. Waksdal, that he actually provided a majority of the government budget for the autumn, so I think it's a little late with the heart attacks that are now coming. Otherwise, I must also say that the gas power issue and the discussion about the mobile gas power plants have made me a little uncertain about where the government is really talking about the gas power issue. The council says that he is in favour of the application for the mobile gas power plants, but at the same time admits that it is not an environmentally friendly solution. At the same time, he indirectly says that massive pollution – a pollution that is actually greater than that of stationary gas plants – is okay for as long as it is temporary. So here I think the government should come up with some clarifications. I must also say that I am pleased that the Government has gradually understood the principle that households need support, so that they can become less dependent on electricity for heating. As I said in my post, 8,200 households have applied for the new support scheme, which is probably only going to reach 9,000. And we're talking about half a million households that need to convert their heating system – away from electricity and over to new renewable energy. There we have a huge challenge, and the amount that the government has put on the table is pretty puzzled to get to this. There's SV taking responsibility. We invite the Government to a dialogue to put in place a long-term scheme that involves more than 50 million. kr. We want to cooperate, and the Government has a majority in the Stortinget for this, if the Government itself wants to – if the Government wants to put in place a system that involves long-termism, more money on the table, and does not throw blues in the eyes of people who need this support scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1136	I really don't think it would be necessary to repeat for the third time what the government's policy is in terms of gas power plants in general, which are so clearly expressed in the Sem Declaration, and which I have stood so firm in all these debates. Both Rolf Terje Klungland, Øyvind Waksdal and others who are engaged in building gas power plants, permanent ones, have received a clear response from me. I don't think SV should try to question the government's views on the long-term development of gas power plants with CO2 management. On the other hand, I want to put a positive spotlight on what is an outstanding success – it is good to bring it along too, among other things, a little more problematic – namely, the government’s proposal to support households in purchasing – excuse me, President, what is happening to the clock? – pellet foam, heat pump or energy control system. I can inform the representative Vaggen Malvik that this has now been raised in 9 100 applications, and that is about the scope of the proposal that has been promoted for Stortinget. This must not be a problem for us, but a challenge and a success. We have to take the positive view that this has received a very high response, but it also says that most households with good finances and profitability are likely to be able to invest in this, actually without the grant. What has triggered, on the other hand, is attention. It has moved something that we hope will be lasting, and that can put others on the same idea: making a sensible investment that in the long run will also save households money.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1143	The President regrets that the Council of State was disturbed by the clock, something was wrong here. It is possible that there was too little power! I don't know – but now it seems to work again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1146	It's never so bad that it's not good for anything! In energy, it is time to go from talking to practice – and the government has now talked and talked. It actually seems to keep going, and it's disappointing. In terms of talk, I would like to ask the Council of State whether there is disclaimer and populism on the part of the Workers' Party when we claim that we want to have a discovery obligation, when we want a grant scheme to expand new renewable energy, when we want a grant scheme that will continue on power-saving measures, and when we want a grant scheme that will mean that sources other than electricity are used for heating. In this case, the Government follows up what the Council of State calls disclaimer and populism. The working party has proposed a heat pump scheme in the budget for two years, so the government is following it up now. The most important thing the council can do is to answer the concrete question I had in the first row, which he did not answer. It is whether the Government will ensure that the decision on the collapse of gas power plants, which states that Norwegian gas power plants will have the same framework conditions as those in other EEA countries, is followed up. Actually, the Council of State can answer yes or no to that. Thus he can give a signal to the builder, and thus he can do something about the power situation, so that we do not have the discussion about mobile gas plants every year for a long time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1155	We must tolerate a debate on energy policy, and an energy minister must also bear to be criticised when his proposals do not immediately arouse apathy in the Stortinget. But it is also important that the Government and the Stortinget cooperate in a difficult situation with a shortage in the energy market. And more governments and magnification have to take a co-responsibility because we've come up in that situation. It is in this context that I believe that the representative of Klungland here presents a populist statement, because the Workers' Party could have reintroduced both the obligation of discovery and put more emphasis on renewable energy throughout the 1990s. The representative of Klungland, in his first post, says that too little is being invested in renewable energy, and the Labour Party calls for more money for renewable energy. No government has ever given more money to renewable energy than the Bondevik II government. That's the ratio. That's why I think it's getting a little messy when you give the impression that one would have had more kWh to deliver to the energy market if the Workers' Party had been in power. At least they have not proved this through five successive energy ministers in the 1990s. It may be that they have come to the realization now that they should have done this, and that is all right. That's the right of the opposition to claim. But they didn't. We've done something about it. That may not be enough, and this winter may have shown that it has to do much more. I'd like to take that invitation from Stortinget, because I think there's got to be something to do to avoid being put in the same situation again. We must have a secure supply of power at all times, at acceptable prices. That's the government's goal, and we'd like to cooperate with the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1162	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1167	This is a debate which, in itself, has evolved as it was necessary to expect in the context of the many debates that have been held since the New Year and until today in all kinds of media, and we are also aware of the arguments. What I want to claim as an interesting observation is how the Workers' Party has, in a sense, been defending itself and using an argument against the sitting government to make its own defective follow-up on the energy front visible in the last ten years. So no initiative has been taken by the Workers' Party to bring more energy into the market. No more money has been spent on alternative energy support schemes. A declaration of will has been expressed, but it has not been made in the last ten years. It would have been possible. Then Rolf Terje Klungland, like Jens Stoltenberg has said in many debates, says that it would be so much better if you had followed the Workers' Party's recommendation on disclosure. I want to quote from Innst. O. No 67 for 1989-1990, where the Workers' Party voted to lift the obligation of discovery. It says, after a description: ‘However, when these members – i.e. the members of the Workers’ Party – ‘will support the proposal to lift the disclosure obligation, it is because it is illogical with the discovery obligation combination and market-based expansion. In addition, it will cause significant problems for each power plant to calculate what can be sold by power when large customers are to be able to trade with other power suppliers.’;» That means that what Rolf Terje Klungland claims about the discovery obligation is not correct. The Labour Party voted to abolish it in 1990. So to the extent that Klungland is given the opportunity to take the floor again, I hope he will clarify whether something has happened in the Workers' Party after joining the Innst. O. No 67 for 1989-1990.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1179	I think the previous speaker is almost a school example of the way this debate has taken. He refers to 1990 observations. What's actually talking about is today's situation. And our proposal is to buy preparedness. I have heard the comments from the other representatives today, and they have been about general energy policy: high electricity bills, heat pumps, windmills, subsidy schemes and other things. But what is actually involved is the purchase of standby. If we are going to buy that standby, we have to make this decision today. So it takes four to six weeks from a decision here, until these gas power stations are ready to be used. And it doesn't help to come up with such solutions when the crisis is there, because then it's too late. Someone has mixed up that we didn't take this into account when we dealt with the state budget. That is quite correct, but when we dealt with the state budget, we did not take into account the fact that the state has invested billions in increased revenue in the form of VAT. Neither was it any of the other parties that commented in their comments or in their comments on the situation we are facing now. For what's happening is that we're giving up the weather and the wind and completely different powers from what's in this hall, if it's not going to be a crisis. Statnett hopes that Norway will continue to cope with the winter without rationalisation, but will not exclude it. In other words, there may be darkness in some areas. I have to refer to Bergen's Official Journal, which had a case yesterday, where the Western Council asks Stortingen to take action to avoid the crisis that could result in rationalisation and zonal disconnection of the power supply. And that's exactly who we're listening to, because it's those who are going to get dizzy when the crisis might occur, it's those who are going to get it dark. I find it regrettable that the majority here in the Chamber does not see the light, literally.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1192	I agree with the representative of Korsberg in one thing: it does little for those who are currently struggling with high electricity bills or those who fear stream rationalization, that we are driving and arguing about what has happened in the past. But I take it for granted that the Government, if necessary, will come to the Stortinget with proposals or with questions of assistance if it would be necessary to introduce this kind of extraordinary action. It is the government's responsibility and the government's duty to ensure that an emergency situation is controlled. Therefore, the Central Party chooses to trust that the Government has the necessary overview in relation to the situation we have in the West today, and that proposals will be made to the Stortinget if necessary. But then, unfortunately, I also have to contribute a little bit to tearing up in old debates. The one who got me to take the floor was actually Rolf Terje Klungland – and to recommend a little reading from earlier times: The current Minister of Energy Jens Stoltenberg said in his statement to the Stortinget in 1995, March 23, that around the millennium we will be in a situation where we are dependent on importing power, that we want too little energy, that there is only a price that will be essential for the expansion of new energy, and that there is an increase in the price that is needed to get new capacity or put into use alternative energy. That was the government's prescription in relation to how we were going to make sure that we had enough energy. The first thing Jens Stoltenberg did after he joined as Minister of Energy was cut with nearly half a billion dollars in Finn Kristensen's investment in alternative energy. In 1992/93, the Labour Party had a major investment in alternative energy, but for the market economists in the Labour Party, there was no good solution. It was hoped that the market and price would prevail. On top of this, three new cable connections to Germany and the Netherlands were also approved at the time, with unilateral export obligations of a total of 7 TWh without equivalent guarantees for imports. These cables were eventually scrambled. I would also like to remind you that the gas power debate that the Workers' Party started in the mid-1990s was not a gas power debate to meet domestic demand for power. In repeated debates, the Workers' Party clarified that these gas power stations would be export plants that would export power to the countries around, in order to avoid exporting the gas in unaltered form. So it was some kind of processed gas Workers' Party talked about for export. So when the Workers' Party today turns to the great heights in relation to having taken hold of the situation we're standing up today, it's mildly done. It has nothing to do with reality at all, and nothing to do with what the Workers' Party did in the 1990s, when the Workers' Party today becomes a spokesman for increased energy supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1204	When the representative of Korsberg says that there were no other parties that took account of today's situation, I think it must be a memory shift. It was actually the case that SV in the state budget went against increasing the proceeds from Statnett by 200 million. kr, agreed by the Progress Party and the Government Parties in the budgetary agreement. It was also such that SV added over a billion kroner to Enova in the state budget, among other things. to obtain a conversion away from electricity to heating. In addition, we have made similar proposals a number of times in the past, including in the context of the climate communication which was discussed last June. There are actually parties that have thought about this with power dependence in the past, and that have seen that this is going to happen. There were also parties in their time who did not call for the liberalisation of the power market and the introduction of the new energy law. The Council of State has pointed out that there are currently 9,100 applications to Enova for this new aid scheme, saying that there is no need to make a problem. Of course, it is very nice that 9 100 households have applied for funds for conversion away from electricity for heating purposes. I have often said myself that heating a house with panel furnaces, is like firing on the fireplace with mahogany, it's getting hot, but there's a bad use of electricity. It is very good that so many applications are available, but it also illustrates the problem that the scheme is limited. It's too little money, 50 million. kr is too small. We need to have a long-term perspective that also allows those households that do not have money on the book, or who cannot provide the money on the table now, to invest in a heat pump or a pellet stove. There is also a special feature here, even if you are supported by the state. The excess is not always as easy to tidy up in January to February for households with marginal income, which do not have large amounts in the savings account. So in order for these households, too, to be able to change, one should have at least one scheme that lasts over ten years, so that one gets a long-term interest in this. In the debate, the Council of State has also put the Labour Party and the Progress Party in a very strong position. It's interesting to see how both the committee leader and the state council are hammering on these two parties. I think that is justified. The problem is that in terms of energy policy, the government has just chosen these two parties as its partners in different areas, and unfortunately until now, the party that actually points to the forward-looking solutions, namely SV, has not chosen. That's why I say we want to cooperate with the Government. We want to give our support to a permanent conversion scheme, which involves more money than what has been put on the table until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1213	I am sorry that the debate is going out, but at the same time I want to thank both the representative Odd Roger Enoksen and the representative, Brother Yngve Rahm, for allowing me to go back to the great heights. Now there's a certain question of definition here, if we have the same idea of what are the 'high altitudes', but yet it's dangerous to make history descriptions that are totally misleading and that don't lead to correctness. In relation to what Brother Yngve Rahm said, I can actually refer to his posts and say that when the Workers' Party still supports this, something must have happened before that, as I hope the representative of one of the government parties will read it. With reference to the representative Odd Roger Enoxen, it is quite right that we said we should have renewable energy sources to meet the energy demand in Norway in a normal year. In a normal year! I will make the claim that 2002 and 2003 have not been a normal year at all. I think one of the biggest wishes for the Norwegian population is that it won't be a normal year. But if this is not going to be a normal year, more power is required on the market. Here, the Council of State must sit down with the force of Nature, with the concessionary builders. The Workers' Party's call is: the Council of State must sit down with those who are to build gas power plants, ask what it takes to expand them, and present it to the Stortinget. Then I think the Council of State will get an answer to what needs to be done. The size has decided that gas power stations in Norway shall have the same framework conditions as apply in other EEA countries. Then we had not started coal-fired power plants in Denmark and Poland, and we had not signed an agreement on 50 MW of electricity from North Russia. There is no representative in this house who can say that it is more environmentally friendly than building gas power plants in Norway. At the same time, it is alarming that everyone will sell the gas only out of the country, and so it is that we will spend a lot of money building cables to pick up the further processed gas back to Norway as electricity. There is a cross of thought that government parties should take inwards now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1224	In relation to the problem raised by the proposers, listening to the debate can almost become speechless. When Statnett introduced a zoning for a short time back, we were made clear that the delivery situation was different for the country’s inhabitants. It can be extremely difficult for someone, especially in the West. That's a little bit of the background for the proposal to go. This matter is not about distant past and what was said in the settings in 1991, nor about the distant future and what could become the supply situation if we were able to install some heat pumps and do some other grip, but it is about a contingency action. So it's about the present. And when we talk about preparedness policy, a little bit of the point is to be out in good time, so that the action that is being taken will be effective if we come into a situation that makes it necessary for preparedness to be implemented. Then it is encouraging to listen to the debate, in which one is not at all willing to discuss the real content of the present – the emergency response needed to ensure that, in particular, parts of the West, the Sunnhordland region and the Bergen peninsula, should be provided with adequate means of supply in the event of the worst. And there's still cause for concern. Those who live there should be concerned about the lack of commitment and the lack of concern from a large majority in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1231	Brother Yngve Rahm has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1234	I'm sorry if I extend the debate somewhat. However, I feel the need to point out the main issue here in relation to the large heights that the representative of Klungland was at. This has been an important element of the debate from New Year onwards. The leader of the Labour Party has used this as an argument for some of the situation we are in per cent. Today, and said that if we had followed the Workers' Party and accepted the obligation to discover, we would not have had the situation we have. The Labour Party must stop saying that, because it says that the party voted in favour! Regardless of the history, the party voted for the disclosure obligation to be removed. It's the same energy law that applies today, and it's related to what we call market-based expansion. It also supported the Workers' Party when this law was up. It's going to be wrong – and I would say, at the limit of misinformation – when you try to create the impression that you voted against something you actually voted for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1239	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1790]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1255	Since there is a complete consensus in the Presidency in this matter, it should not be necessary to turn to as large heights as was done in the previous debate in the previous case. But that does not mean that this matter is not at least as important. At the request of the Control Committee, in the light of a Document No. Eight proposals from the representative Odd Roger Enoksen, Stortinget decided that the Presidency should appoint a committee of inquiry for the Mehamn accident and draw up a mandate for it. That's what the presidency has done, and it's been an interesting and challenging task. In view of the position taken by the Control Committee, and also the debate, it has been important for the Presidency to hold on to two things. Firstly, the new Commission was going to try to find the cause of the plane crash. Secondly, it has been important for the Presidency to find out in the mandate that it is also important to look at and examine the behaviour of the authorities in relation to the previous investigations. This has its background in the fact that doubts have arisen as to whether some parts of the Norwegian authorities have withheld information that could have led to a clearer conclusion from previous investigation commissions. The Norwegian people and the Norwegian population cannot live with the fact that there is so much distrust in the population, if the Norwegian authorities at all levels have acted with the information necessary to clarify the accident. That is why the Presidency of the Council has stated in concrete terms that further consideration should be given to whether there are gaps in the participation of Norwegian public authorities in the previous investigations of the accident. Both of these main elements of the mandate are important. Then the Presidency has also been concerned that there must be no doubt about whether the Commission and the Commission's composition are havoc. The requirement we made – and were concerned about – when we were going to put together the members of this commission was that we had to get in members who had high professional competence, but who could not at the same time be accused of having preconceived views of what had happened, I had almost said in one direction or another. We couldn't have a commission that had members who were in the commission to prove that previous assumptions were correct. We had to have a commission that went into this with blank sheets, and that was open to all possibilities. We have done that, although it meant that we had to contact quite a few people before we got the whole thing that we thought Stortinget had given the Presidency a mandate to find out. That is why I think I can say that we have been able to draw up a good mandate. I think we've managed to get a very good commission, which will meet the need for the expertise that we think is necessary to find out the truth, if it's possible to find it. So, of course, the Commission should have the opportunity to hire the expertise it needed, and it should do so on an independent basis. There shall be no presidency or anyone else who interferes with the experts they need to support in their very difficult efforts to clarify the root causes of this aviation accident. But that means that this is going to cost money. We just have to figure out that it does. That is why it is necessary for us to go to the Stortinget today, not only to explain how the mandate and the Commission have been put together, but also to make it clear that there is a clear need for allocation, which we have so far estimated at 7 million. kr. I am not able to guarantee that that amount will be enough. There will be the development and need to hire expert assistance, and the frequency of meetings, which will be crucial for the final amount. But in this year's budget, it was therefore necessary to receive this additional appropriation. Of course, we have seen when we have drawn up mandates and when we have seen what decisions are needed in connection with this mandate, taking into account the experience of the Stortinget with previous investigation commissions, such as: The Lund Commission. And what was quite clear to us was that at least we had to make sure that the Storting made a decision that was so that it didn't encroach on any kind of uncertainty about this, that no public official or any human being in this country could say: No, I can't pronounce, because I'm bound by the obligation of confidentiality. Therefore, paragraph 1 of the contested decision states: ‘The Government requests it to use its existing legislation to exempt existing and former officials from professional secrecy in respect of the investigation commission for the Mehamn accident.’ And that has to be done. There must not be one person in this country who sits and feels bound by a promise of professional secrecy and therefore cannot provide information. So I see there are some people who have started to wonder if this Commission can then have the opportunity to see classified documents in the Defence. Yes, of course it is. The Commission shall have the highest degree of security clearance and shall have the opportunity to dive into whatever it considers necessary. I have been in contact with the Ministry of Defence, and they have said: Of course it should be this way. There shall be no document necessary to keep away from the Commission in the absence of the necessary security clearance. But it might be opportunistic for the Defense on this occasion to downgrade a number of documents that can actually help to create greater clarity and that it is no longer necessary to cover with grading or professional secrecy. Therefore, paragraph # of the setting. Article 2 is replaced by the following: ‘The size shall be subject to the submission to the Commission of the material which may be available to the public authorities from other studies completed and all public archives and any other material.’ When we ask the Stortinge to take a decision on this and consider it necessary in addition to the mandate, there is no doubt that this should be the case. So we've put in an amount of $7 million. to address the necessary need for communication between representatives of the relatives and the Commission. The Presidency found out that it would be quite difficult in relation to the question of stability that relatives should be directly represented in the Commission. But we see, because of the great attention that has been on this matter, and also the burden it is for a number of the relatives again to have to go through these processes, that we need to have a proper communication between the Commission and the relatives. The Commission itself must find out how this is to be done. We don't want to impose anything on them specifically, but we have put funds at our disposal, so that this can be done independently of both the financial capacity of the Commission and the financial capacity of the individual relatives. The natural thing is, of course, as the Commission is compounded, that someone in the Commission was given a primary responsibility for this communication. But I would like to stress that there has been one of the Presidency's assumptions for both the allocation and for the way in which the Commission is put together. So I'll just end by mentioning, because it's necessary in view of the fact that this case also has to be dealt with in Odelstinget, that it has been important for the Presidency to ensure that this Commission has legal jurisdiction, so that people can be called to question and do not have to go the way of a court to collect them as it is necessary to collect them. But that does not mean that the Commission is supposed to address neither criminal or civil law issues that it had to discover. That the Commission has been proposed to have jurisdiction is done primarily in relation to being able to call the necessary witnesses, and also to provide both witnesses, the Commission and others involved in this, with the necessary security in relation to other legislation in this country. But it's from the odelstningsproposition. With this, I would recommend the presidency's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1295	It is extremely positive that there will now be a collapse investigation commission to look at all the circumstances surrounding the Mehamn accident, where 15 people were killed when an Unøe plane crashed into the sea outside Gamvik on 11 March 1982. The fact that this Commission is now actually being set up, and that it is the Storting as what is behind the creation, has not been a non-circular process. The Aerodrome Commission has examined the accident twice and a third investigation has been considered. But the result of this has not reassured the relatives and witnesses of the Mehamn accident. The matter has therefore not been resolved, but has been in the media for more than 20 years, which has been particularly stressful for the relatives and witnesses who have felt distrusted. It has been claimed by several that the Civil Twin Otter flight from On Island was on a collision course with a military aircraft shortly before the flight accident, a military aircraft which may have illegally crossed the prohibitive zone east of 24 longitude. The SV representative Olav Gunnar Ballo raised the matter with Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm on 27 March last year. The Minister for Transport then replied that there was no new information to be provided for any new investigation and that there was no basis for doubting the Commission’s use of witness statements. In connection with the NRK's focus programme showing a document on the matter last autumn, the Government signaled that it would itself set up an investigation commission. This has always been the opposite, as opposed to what one could get the impression of in many of the other games on Stortinget. I would like briefly to clarify why SV has thought that the Commission must be set up by the Storting and not by the Government. It is of great importance that such a Commission for the investigation of the Mehamn accident, as far as possible, be perceived as unhindered by the population — not least by the relatives of the deceased. I am of the opinion that a government-appointed commission, no matter which people had been appointed, would be too attached to the Government and the administration, and that such a commission for that reason would not have the necessary confidence in the population. In this picture, the Air Hawari Commission, which examined the Mehamn accident in 1984, 1988 and 1997, is a State body. One of the main constitutional tasks of the Storting is to verify that the Government and the Administration follow up the decisions of the Storting. This is done on an ongoing basis in practice by the National Audit Office with regard to the general activities of the public and by the Civil Ombudsman with regard to the complaints of the individual citizen against the administration. Both the Riksrevisionen and the Civil Ombudsman are directly subject to the Stortinget. Since the 1980s, the control of the government of the Grand Duchy has been increasingly complemented by large-scale investigation commissions. I refer you to the Ryssdal Commission of 1985, which examined the management of the problems of the Ryssdal shipping company at the end of the 1970s and the government's information to the Storting in that regard. Then followed the Lund Commission, which was appointed in 1994 to investigate the secret services. In 1997, the Smith I Commission was appointed to examine banks and the role of authorities during the banking crisis in Norway at the end of the 1980s and early 1990s. The last parliamentary review commission was the Smith II Commission, which was set up in 2000 to examine the Gardermoen development. I am of the opinion that a commission to investigate the Mehamn accident, and then necessarily also the investigation of this accident by the Aviation Commission, must be reduced by the Stortinge in order to ensure the Constitutional role of the Stortinge as a control body. It is therefore with great satisfaction that I note that the case nevertheless resulted in the Commission being ordered to pay a large sum and not to appoint a government. The Commission must be able to carry out without hindrance the investigations it considers necessary on the basis of its mandate and report directly to the Stortinget. I am therefore very pleased with the mandate that the Commission has now received in the elections of the Presidency of the Grand Duchy. Finally, I would like to stress that, as far as possible, the Commission must also have access to the archives of other countries. It may well be that the answer to the accident is just in the archives of other countries. I assume that the Government will provide the Commission with the necessary assistance to obtain such transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1316	It is rare that I can unreservedly join the speeches of previous speakers, as I can today make up for the speech of the President of the Grand Duchy in this matter. I am very pleased that a unanimous increase is in line with this proposal and contributes to the appointment of a new investigation commission. It is absolutely necessary, as it was said, both to find a reason and to carry out a thorough examination of the authorities’ management of previous investigations and the causes of the Mehamn accident. I am therefore very pleased with the attitude that the Presidency has given. We cannot live on the fact that there is uncertainty as to whether public authorities have contributed to the retention of information. Nor can we live with the fact that the survivors feel that all the information in the case has not been provided, and that the facts have not become known. That is why the setting that has now been presented is very good, and I join it wholeheartedly. However, I would like to make a comment on what was said by the President of the United Kingdom about the need for transparency in absolutely everything that might be relevant, and that this is being followed up. Defence personnel have told the evening post that the Presidency of the United Kingdom does not have the power to revoke the Defence Security Act, that the Defence Officer must approve the person to be given access, and that the Defence Officer must assess whether the person to whom security has been cleared needs to be given access to the case in question. I am pleased that it is stated here that full transparency should be given, and that such reservations should not take place. It would be completely pointless if any restrictions were imposed on the investigation that is now to take place on the defence side. I see no reason to add anything more than that I am very pleased that it has been established that the obligation of professional secrecy should be lifted. Full access shall be granted. And not only with that, I want to add on my own account that I also assume that the defence not only relates to the questions that have to come, but that the authorities where you feel that you have information that the investigation commission can benefit from, on their own, contribute to that information being known to the investigation commission, so that the Commission does not have to ask for any information. Here there must be a positive will from absolutely everyone to get to the bottom of this matter once and for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1329	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1790]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1342	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1349	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsenproposal No. 2, from Christian Holm on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for minimum economic standards in primary schools. The standard must be linked to the hours spent by the students in the different disciplines and to the requirement to adapt the training to the abilities and facilities of the students.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1373	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a new funding scheme for primary and secondary schools, based on the fact that the State pays school fees directly to the school where the student chooses to be a student.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1413	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06.ana.ud2316e1420	It shall be put to the vote on the proposal in Document No. 8:51, from the representatives Carl I. Hagen, Øyvind Waksdal, Gjermund Hageseter, Arne Sortevik and Karin S. Woldseth. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide instructions and resources to Statnett/NVE as soon as possible so as to reduce the risks surrounding the power supply in the West by realizing Statoil’s plans for a temporary gas power plant at Kollsnes’. As the President has understood, the proposal will only receive the support of the proposers.
