ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e28	The representative, Jan Simonsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e31	I am delighted to make a proposal to honor the pioneers in the North Sea according to the same economic guidelines for military retirement, which is approximately NOK 240,000. This proposal has actually been drawn up: Vidar Kleppes, a new party, the Democrats, where I myself am a member. However, I have understood the Stortingen Code so that I have the status of independent representative here, and that it must therefore be formally right to promote the proposal not on behalf of the Democrats, although I am a member there, but on behalf of myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e38	The President will unquestionably consider the option to be the most reassuring. The representative of Heidi Sørensen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e43	On behalf of the representatives of Heikki Holmås, Kristin Halvorsen and myself, I would like to propose the establishment of the Alnaelva Environmental Park.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e48	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e71	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: – State Council Selected City of Reply Haugland – Councillor Laila Davøy, – State Council Børge Brende The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Vidar Bjørnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e86	I have a question to the Council of State in response to Haugland. Last week the Council of State spoke to the media about an important political issue for most people, and I hope that the Council of State can also share its views with the Stortinget. The government has proposed a new law, opening up private schools with guaranteed state funding. The Labour Party will fight to strengthen the public common school as the main meeting place for all young people, regardless of background. Why is it so important for the Christian People's Party to contribute to the privatisation of the public primary school, which opens up the sorting of young people by their parents' backgrounds and grades? I know that the Council of State has the opportunity to choose whether she can and will answer, all the time Right is in the chair of the Government's school policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e97	The question of whether to answer or not to respond does not depend on the positions of lots. It depends on the responsibility of the Council of State, but the Council of State is free to respond on behalf of other Councils if she wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e100	The answer I want to give will, of course, be on behalf of the Government. It is not an individual party that is in government. There are three parties, and we are united on the policy we are pursuing. The school policy is not within my remit, but it is a heart issue for the Christian People's Party, also a strong public school. I want to distance myself from the way the question was formulated, because we also want to build up under a strong public school. At the same time, we felt that parental freedom is very important, and that parents themselves should be allowed to choose school, whether they want to send children to an independent school or to a public school. For me, it's pretty easy to combine the two wishes – bet on a public, good school, but at the same time focus on parental rights, so that they can choose another school for their children if that's what they want. There must be a certain peculiarity for the parents who want to send their children there. It will cost them something, but the price doesn't have to be so high that only rich people can afford it. Let me add, because there's a bunch of people in the back that's probably going to follow up, that I'm not going to go into a wider school-political discussion. But I want to cut it down to completely general positions in relation to what the Government stands for, and what the Christian People's Party stands for. I assume that it is based on the national meeting of the holy representative asking questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e109	I'm going to be general. The Council of State itself has stated that setting up private schools can create problems for public schools, both financially and in terms of resources. Clearly, she's worried, and I'm glad the Council of State recognizes it. The problem is that she has not done anything to remedy the unrest. I don't have anything to do with it, but it must be this thing that's called talking to two tongues. Governments are well aware of the situation in the school sector in municipalities, with reductions in teaching positions and cuts. In practice, the ability of municipalities to say no to private schools is very limited. But money for the private schools will drain the municipalities' school budgets. Should not the Christian People's Party, based on its values, defend the community represented by the municipalities and the public elementary school, instead of more markets and private schools that will sort young students?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e118	The President will file that it is remarkable if there are politicians who do not know how to speak with two tongues.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e121	I'm essentially in agreement with that comment. To answer the question, first of all, I'm taking a distance from the way I put it here. It's not the school that sorts children; it's the parents who decide where to send their children. Skular does not have such a sort order. It's the one. The second is that my response to the turbulence in the municipalities was a response on the basis of old financing arrangements for the private schools. Now we have set up a new funding scheme for private schools, starting from the municipal costs of schooling. And then the competition between the public schools and the private schools will be different. In addition, the money comes to the private schools from the centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e130	I thank the Council of State for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e136	The President has some doubts about what this is like in relation to Storting's regulations. The issue of private schools is being dealt with in Stortinget, and it comes up for debate in the very near future. The Council of Trade Unions is not present, and if I perceive the Council of State correctly, she does not want to answer any further questions relating to the matter. To the extent that this is the case, the President will consider that it is not appropriate to give rise to supplementary questions. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e141	I would like to ask a question to Environment Minister Børge Brende, but first congratulate him on his position as head of the UN Commission on Sustainable Development. One of the most important tasks facing sustainable development is to save the rainforest. It's where most of the biodiversity is located. Each year, rainforests disappear corresponding to half of Norway’s area. Most of the rainforest is unsustainable, and it is often also illegal hogg. Consumer inspectors can tell today that rainforest extract from the military dictatorship in Burma is used in the production of Norwegian recreational boats. Half of the original teak forest in Burma is already gone, and teak exports are the largest source of income in the military dictatorship. State Council Børge Brende has previously promised a ban on the introduction of such rainforest trees in Norway, and my question is: When will the ban come, and what will the head of the UN Commission on Sustainable Development do to stop the rainforest destruction?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e150	First, I thank you for the pleasant words of the representative Sørensen. It'll be a tough job to follow up on the Johannesburg Summit. We know from Rio that it was a successful meeting, but making words about action is heavy in the field of environmental development. As for the question of the import of teak from Burma, I have to say that I think it is very unfortunate, and I am serious about Norwegian companies actually choosing to import from the military dictatorship of Burma. The Prime Minister has several times called on Norwegian business not to do so. It is also possible to replace the teak used in these boats with, for example, treated Norwegian pine. Norway has been a boat construction for hundreds of years – I was going to say a thousand years – and we have also been able to use Norwegian wood. If you are going to use rainforest wood, you should have wood certified, i.e. which is guaranteed to be taken out in a sustainable way. In order to prevent illegal high rainforest imports, Norway has taken the initiative to enter into an agreement with the authorities of Indonesia, where they have accepted that we should be able to refuse the import of illegal high rainforests. I think it's a little harder to reach such an agreement with the military dictatorship in Burma, to say it like this. But I have now informed – in the form of a letter and also in the form of a meeting – that we are making contact with these boatbuilders, because then to underline the strong Norwegian commitment to illegal high rain forest. The rainforest is the most important thing we have in relation to Earth's lungs, and also the most important thing in relation to biodiversity. But I have never said that we should introduce a ban on imports of rainforest timber in Norway. What I have said is that we should introduce clear rules in relation to certification and that this must be consistent with WTO legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e161	Børge Brende wrote in Dagbladet on 3 July 2002: ‘The Government will be in favour of prohibiting the introduction of illegally harvested timber and will consider different instruments to prevent the introduction of wood that is not environmentally certified.’ Furthermore, he ends the chronicle of writing: ‘We should ensure that only sustainably produced timber is exported to Norway.’ When the Prime Minister, the Minister for the Environment and others from the Government also encourage the industry to stop these imports for five years, is it not time for the Government itself to act and put in place the ban we thought the Minister for the Environment warned last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e176	It may be that in the meantime, the Minister for the Environment has had timber workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e179	I have to say that I think you should look for a long time for a government that has taken so many concrete steps to prevent the import of illegal forest. What the representative points to in his question is that of course I have always stressed that a ban on illegal high rainforests must be imposed under the auspices of the WTO. Norway cannot introduce rules that will not be accepted by the WTO. That's point one. The second point is that we have also taken the initiative to reach bilateral agreements with different countries in order to achieve this kind of ban, which is in line with the WTO. We have also started cooperation with the EU that operates immediately. That is why the agreement we reached with Indonesia was quite groundbreaking, where we can say that we are not importing this timber from Indonesia, because it is illegal hogd. This is also in line with WTO legislation, because Indonesia has accepted it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e186	There will be follow-up questions – Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e189	That's when the instruments come on the table, we see if we can achieve results. I do not feel very comfortable with the fact that we do not have the means to secure such an important matter, as the Minister for the Environment says. It's the world's lungs we're talking about. I have two very specific questions for the Minister for the Environment. One is: will the Minister for the Environment take initiatives, in particular through his new position, to put in place a stronger ban and legislation through the WTO to ensure this important objective? And is it that the Minister for the Environment is sure that WTO legislation prevents Norway from taking stronger action against the use of threatened rainforests than we have today? Wouldn't it have been a good idea to go one more round and see if there might be any action we could do nationally before we say, no, the WTO prevents us from doing this? I'm pretty sure there's more here we can do nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e196	What is the main point of the rainforest is that it must be treated in a sustainable way. It's not all extractions of rainforest that are initially wrong. It is clear that we have also been hogd in forests in Norway for hundreds of years. So what we have to prevent is an unsustainable extract from the rainforest. Therefore, Norway will also promote, in the context of the WTO, and has promoted, that, in relation to illegal high rainforests, which have always been discussed, it should be allowed to say no to imports. We have also said that Norway wants to import only FSC certified wood from the rainforest, which is thus guaranteed to be extracted in a sustainable way. We cannot refuse poor people to chop trees, but it must happen in a sustainable way. In addition, on behalf of the state, we have sent letters to all state agencies that we should be very reluctant to purchase wood from rainforest. It must be FSC certified. We have also taken the initiative to establish bilateral agreements with a number of countries to prevent the import of illegal forest. We have reached this rather groundbreaking agreement with Indonesia.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e203	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e206	My question goes to the Minister of Culture. In his speech to the National Council, the Government said that the government would give priority to a grant to the Hålogaland theatre, a new operation of 172 million. kr. At the same time, we know that we haven't seen any signals about the opera bag. It's going to spend $3.5 billion on new construction and an uncertain billion on the surrounding area in addition to $200-300 million. kr in operating aid per year. years. What the government doesn't want to spend money on, we can read about it in yesterday's newspaper, where you say no to pensioners and no to families with children, among other things. The government council is also the leader of one of the government parties, so my question is: A clear no to children's families, to the elderly plus to Norwegian shipping and a clear yes to money for theater and opera – is that a correct interpretation of the government's political priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e216	It's probably not often a few questions about what a premature person is, in these spontaneous questions, but it should be. I'm very happy and proud that the government wants to build the Hålogaland theater. They've been waiting for this theater for almost 50 years, and they're very disappointed because we didn't find funds in the budget for this year, so they've been given the commitment authorisation for the sum they're going to get from the state. Payments will start next year, in 2004, and they will start building immediately. This is a cultural building that pensioners and children's families are going to enjoy. All of North Norway, yes, I believe the entire cultural nation of Norway, is going to enjoy it. I am pleased and proud that we have given priority. Otherwise, when what's going to be in the revised national budget tomorrow, I'm not going to say anything about it. I just want to say that it's not about deprioritising the areas that the representative named. Otherwise come talk tomorrow, and something more I won't say today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e225	The President is pleased to note that this time it has been possible to surprise a Council of State with a question in the spontaneous Question Time. That must mean that it works as intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e228	I thank you for your answer. Last weekend there was a national meeting in the Christian People's Party, and behind the pulpit was the new slogan: family and care. I wonder if you had made a little mistake, that you had forgotten a few words, that you should have said no in front of the slogan. I would suggest that the Council of State might change the slogan to: no to family and care. The promise proposed for the pensioners, which the government has announced in the paper that you don't want to support, is about the same thing that the government will use on the opera. I feel that I am not getting a clear answer on the priorities that the Government is basing on. There are significant censuses, several hundred million each year, which will then be used in theatres and operas, and which will be prioritised. You don't give priority to the elderly, you don't want to give priority to the children's families, and you don't want to give priority to Norwegian seafarers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e240	Now I prefer that Ulf Knudsen does not focus on what slogans the Christian People's Party should use. He should have enough with his own. We're going to give priority to both pensioners and families of children. Family and care are a good slogan for the party. We will also facilitate its implementation in municipal policy. This number material will be here tomorrow. Elles wonders not so much about me, because interest in culture has not exactly been so prominent in the Progress Party. The cultural effort of both this government and other governments has not been well received from the Progress Party. We actually need culture to have a warmer society. We need culture to have good care. We need culture to have a living society. So it's actually more than just the narrow goals that the Progress Party sets up. We're going to give priority to families, pensioners and culture, and we can actually afford that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e249	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e252	I want to put my question to the Council of State Burnde. I would like to join the congratulations, and congratulate the Minister for the Environment on his new and challenging tasks, which I think are great. But I want to challenge the state councils in one of our neighbourhoods, namely these great tasks and challenges that we have in the field of cultural memory protection, which I think will be handled somewhat in a vote. Sometimes the search light is directed at singles, as was seen in Doc1 on NRK1 on Monday, May 12, where Oslo as a city of culture was seen in the shame hook. But I thought it was time to focus on the national responsibility that lies here. What is initially a wealth of culture, whether it's private or public, appears to be a significant economic problem. The principle is here: is it right that the state on the one hand impose restrictions and requirements, while on the other hand he has little involvement? [[The President clubs.]] The paradox is that letting decay be built is not illegal, and then the effect of peace becomes bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e261	The President must remember to justify and present the question in such a way that it is done within the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e264	Thanks again for the nice words initially. Cultural memory protection is an important area, which is prioritised by the Government. It's been talking for a lot of years about getting a cultural memory fund. There's been a lot of talk, but little action. Last year the government set up its own cultural memory fund, with the address of Røros, initially of 300 million. kr. We've got a board in place, and we're about to hire the Executive Director. The unique feature of the Cultural Memory Fund is that it should also be a support to all owners of the many beautiful buildings in Norway that are both protected and protected. Here we also say that private contributions are to be made, and that public spending is to be made on private funds. This is also in line with practices in other countries. With regard to support for cultural memory, the Riksantikvar also has significant support posts here. We have grants of just over 100 million. kr – some are distributed regionally and others are distributed directly from the Riksantikvarn. But I agree with the questioner that in this area too, more resources are needed. We believe that we have got a good start on the establishment in the cultural memory area. It is clear that it is the annual government budgets that determine how much money we can spend and contribute to the owners of protected and peaceful buildings, who obviously have to deal with the framework conditions imposed by the Riksantikvaren for these buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e273	I'm aware of that fund, and it's a beginning and an instrument. But for 2003, we'll have just under 7 million. kr – as far as I am concerned – and this is about 5000 barley. I think it's sad if Norway is thinking like the country that gave the bluff in its cultural treasures. I hope we can be even more offensive, so that we skip the characteristics of a national shame. I want to challenge the Council of State on some proposals for action. A fund of e.g. One billion dollars will result in a return of 100 million. kr, or one may grant exemption from VAT for the maintenance of protected and protected buildings. We can also – as we do in business – take some tax measures, for example. minimum operating and maintenance deductions. Can the Council of State give any view on some other measures that could produce good results?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e282	The President would point out that giving the banner is at the edge of normal parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e285	It's not just the outer edge of parliamentary language, it's actually wrong. Over the course of a year, we have created a cultural memory fund, which has been a requirement of the cultural memory area for very many years. Of course, this fund will increase, I can't say anything about when it will increase, it will decide the annual budgets. I think we're doing a really good job in the cultural memory area in Norway. Some time ago, the Riksantikvaren and I launched the large stave church program. We're going to spend 100 million dollars. kr in the next 10 years to secure these unique stave churches. We're also going to spend 100 million. kr annually through the Riksantikvaren in support. I don't disagree that we obviously need more money here as well. But, as the Storting is known, priorities must be set. I have had an impact on the establishment of the Cultural Memory Fund, which will yield returns that can be used for cultural memories in the years to come. In addition, we have also nominated several areas for the UNESCO list, and UNESCO was pleased with these nominations. I also understood that they were satisfied with the efforts we are making in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e293	There will be follow-up questions – Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e296	On the day Brende proposes a significant strengthening of the bet in this area, he shall be given the support of the Centre Party for it. The reason why you choose to address this issue is that it is shameful to see the example of the Ekeberg restaurant on TV. It is shameful to see what a part of the church buildings in Norway are in. And it's a shame to see that, within agriculture, you no longer have the opportunity to maintain the building mass that forms an important part of the cultural landscape, and that many, including outside agriculture, are concerned about. It's a shame to see, and that's what's occupying the Center Party in this context. It is also a pity to see that the responsibility has been largely fragmented, and a discharge of responsibility has been granted. The starting point is a beginning, but it's too scarce. The question is, what kind of stepping up can we expect, and when can we expect a stepping up to what is needed in this area – a bet that must be far more than what we have seen so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e305	First, I thank you for at least acknowledging that this is a beginning. For many years, the very main requirement was to establish a cultural memory fund – the principle. Last summer, it was a joy to have the Cultural Memory Fund set up, and it was a joy to see that it was 300 million. kr in the outlet. Now I understand that you want the fund bigger, and that you want a escalation plan. When it comes to the escalation plan, I'm a little bit unsure whether that's the solution. I often have the impression that such escalation plans are being adopted, and then it is the annual budgetary procedures that decide. But there is no doubt that we also need more resources in the cultural memory area. Nor should we forget that the owners here have a responsibility. There are some people who have owned the Ekeberg restaurant for many years and actually treated it voicelessly. So the question is also how much of this state will then cover the owners' maintenance of beautiful buildings. There's got to be a limit there. So through the Cultural Memory Fund, the state can hold half, so private funds can be put to the other half, in contexts where it is building of national character and importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e310	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e313	I would also like to ask a question to the Minister for the Environment, Mr Børge Brande. Yesterday, the ‘Fire Point’ of the NRK sent a programme on the increasing transport of oil tankers to and from Russia along the Norwegian coast from Finnmark and southwards. There has been an explosive increase in the number of ships carrying oil cargoes along the Norwegian coast in the last few years. The working party believes that one of the things that is urgent to get started is to improve the tug capacity in North Norway. As late as March, when the Stortinget dealt with the marine environmental message presented by the Minister for the Environment, it was therefore unanimously agreed that the Government would return to the revised national budget, which will be presented tomorrow, with assessments and concrete measures to strengthen the towing boat capacity in the northern regions. This week, a press release from the Ministry of Fisheries said this would not come until the fall. And my question is, why can't the government come up with measures now, as the Storting has asked, and for which the government parties themselves have joined the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e320	First, I must stress that I am also concerned about the increased transport along our coast. Not least, I am concerned because oil protection in Russia, although it has improved in recent years, is not adapted to the increased transport. We also have challenges here at home, and the government has taken some important steps. Of course, it is difficult for me to comment on a press release from the Ministry of Fisheries, especially as the Stortinget has decided that from 1 January 2003, oil protection has moved from the Ministry of the Environment to the Ministry of Fisheries. I ask for understanding and respect for it. More generally, I can say that what the Government has done – and that is a matter that has been lying for too many years – is to propose an extension of the territorial limit from 4 to 12 nautical miles. As long as you don't, many of these oil shipments can happen in the Norwegian quarries. Now the territorial boundary is expanding, and then you get these transports into safer waters. But we are facing many challenges. The representative, Mr Konglevoll, did not mention, as I have also from the Minister for Fisheries, and which I think must be very positive, is that we are now stating that we should establish a traffic centre for shipping in the north, and that will be addressed in the revised national budget. The Minister of Fisheries has also reached agreements here on alerts to Russia, and is now reviewing the needs of the Norwegian oil protection system in the future. With regard to the towing boat capacity, there is a question of assessment in the Ministry of Fisheries, and I cannot say anything more about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e331	This is one of the biggest environmental threats facing the population in Norway. It is very positive that the government has now joined a traffic monitoring centre in Norway. It is the follow-up of a work that the Workers' Party started, and we have also earlier, as late as in the debate on the marine environment, pointed to Vardø's strategic location. But that's not enough. I note that the Minister for the Environment in a way supports the positive parts of the press release that came from the Minister for Fisheries, but he does not want to comment on the other. I am, of course, aware that this is really a matter that falls within the responsibility of the Minister for Fisheries. But if an accident should occur, the Minister of the Environment will have to take full responsibility for it. So the government asked to come back in connection with the revised national budget with concrete actions and assessments to strengthen the towing boat capacity in the northern regions. This is a matter of urgency. My follow-up question is then: Why can't this come now? Why must it wait until the harvest?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e340	First of all, it is good that we get support for our proposal to have a traffic centre in Vardø, which is a good and important proposal, so that we can then gather the information on the shipping traffic that goes along the Finnmark coast. I also believe that the Government can get support for its proposal to extend the territorial border from 4 to 12 nautical miles, including from the Workers' Party. This case has been lying for too long. We had to cut through and get this case promoted. That, I think, in isolation, is the most important step towards getting better control of this traffic. Then I have noticed that the representative, Mr Konglevoll, believes that the Minister for Fisheries in the revised national budget should also provide a review of the towing boat capacity. I of course support his handling of this matter. We're doing our best in relation to having a good oil protection device.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e349	The President may state that the decision on a new limit has been taken in the Grand Duchy. The President is in doubt – there are two who have asked additional questions, but here we are left with a border assessment of the responsibilities of state councils. The President therefore asks the two who have asked for additional questions to consider it critically. If their additional questions are actually addressed to the Minister for Fisheries and his area of responsibility, they may not need to consider asking additional questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e354	Whether this is for the Minister for Fisheries or the Minister for Environmental Protection, the Minister for the Environment will have to assess. I would like to follow up with another area, which is also very important for the government to clean up, and that is when accidents occur or arise where there is a risk of accidents. It must then be clear who is responsible here at all times and who will intervene, if necessary. We all remember the breakdown of "John R" two and a half years ago. Here it was really just happy with the weather that prevented an environmental disaster. And it was revealed that it was very unclear who was responsible for what. I get very worried when I get a lot of requests that this is not yet in place two and a half years later. We also heard what the County of Finnmark said in the «Fire Point» yesterday about that matter. [[President clubs]] He's a nice and quiet guy. Here you have to have clear rules so that you do not lose valuable time – which can have significant environmental consequences. Will the Minister for the Environment be involved in this? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e365	The President would point out that under the Rules of Procedure, the Council of State is free to answer or not to answer questions outside its competence. However, in addition, the individual wholesaler also has a separate responsibility to assess the address of the issue. That is why Stortinget is informed two days in advance of which state councils are going to put in the spontaneous Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e369	The size decided that oil protection preparedness and the question of scrapped ships should be moved to the Coastal Directorate from 1 January 2003 in order to achieve better coordination. It was a cohesive big deal that did it. That is the constitutional responsibility of the Minister for Fisheries, and I also think he has answered well the questions asked by the representative Pedersen here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e374	Heidi Sørensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e377	There is no doubt that we are pleased that the territorial zone has expanded from approx. 7 km to approx. 22 km. 22 km, however, is not very far off the coast. It is still the case that a super tanker is operating approx. 20 km outside the Norwegian coast is a major danger. In this respect, the Minister for the Environment has taken a commendable initiative. He has launched an investigation, according to a press release from the Ministry of the Environment, in which the aim is to make the Barents Sea a PSSA area, giving the status as a distinctly sensitive area. There are some such areas in the world today – Great Barrier Reef outside Australia is one – and it gives us the opportunity to apply much stronger restrictions for, among other things. maritime traffic. Can the Council of State explain how this work lies in the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e384	First, I would like to stress that the expansion of the territorial border, which I understand the Stortinget decided last week, is a very important step in getting better control of this shipping traffic. There may be some areas in the Barents Sea that are particularly vulnerable to shipping, and I am thinking not least of oil transport from Russia. If we want to give a single area that is particularly vulnerable, protection, and it's outside the territorial limit, the so-called PSSA status might be interesting. That is why I have asked the Maritime Directorate to review the possibilities and the need for this and come back with a matter for me after such a review.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e389	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e392	Unlike the previous questioners, I will ask the Minister for the Environment a question that has to do with his field of competence. The Minister for the Environment has had a high profile of State protection. State protection is, in most cases, essentially the seizure of private property without financial compensation. Just to mention a few examples: Trillomarka, Skibotn and Lyngsalpene, as well as extensive coniferous protection. There is a ban on the construction and dissociation of the hundred metres belt along the coast and similar cases. The common denominator for this is that there is overrun by private landowners. It's overrun by popular local democracy. Then I have the pleasure of reading a resolution from the Right National Meeting where it says: ‘Right will strengthen local self-determination in municipal planning and administration.’ Then the question is, what will the Council of State do to follow up the decision of the Right's own national meeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e406	As the representative is also aware: a hundred years ago it was approx. 50 pst. by South Norway villmark. Today it's down to 5 pst. What the Government does in this area is to follow up the National Park Plan adopted by the Storting. Of course, if you have limitations relating to your property, it's not like you're not getting compensation. Paragraph 105 of the Basic Law states that it is the ordinary basic claims that apply accordingly. For example: Trillomarka, which was mentioned here, and which is relevant to a coniferous protection, is such that if you get an area protected, with restrictions on mowing in your forest, it is defined as a nature reserve. A nature reserve means that you will then have the forest fully replaced, as if the area were expropriated. But still you're actually the homeowner of the area. You own it and can rent it out in hunting and fishing. But it is important to realize that the reason why we impose certain restrictions on our national parks and on the protection of the forests is that we have an international obligation to take care of biodiversity. We also have a national obligation, because the Nordics are actually concerned with outdoors. You're busy in the mountain. And then when 1 pst. By our forest is protected, it is for us to take care of it also for the coming generations. However, as there are doubts about these compensation rules, not least on the part of the Progress Party, I think it would be natural that we should also review the compensation legislation applicable to the establishment of national parks and landscape protection areas. Therefore, I have asked a separate sample to check whether it is right to change this to the benefit of the landowners who might be covered by a protection. If you make changes, it will have retroactive effect on these landowners from the time I notify this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e415	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Council of State did not mention that for approx. six months ago, the Party for Progress, together with the Centre Party, made a proposal to compensate those who are being seized of their property. It made the other parties here in the house vote down. So now you're going to have a sample to evaluate if you're going to substitute. I think at least it should have been automatic in that you get compensation when you get seized private property. The head of the Energy and Environment Committee, Brother Yngve Rahm of the Christian People's Party, said on Tuesday to the Daily Newspaper about the dirt holes in the Beach Zone Act, where exemptions are granted, that he believes that the practice must become even more stringent. He also said that we have to close the loopholes that exist, so that it will not be so easy to get an exemption to build on our own property or restore houses. Is the Government behind such a policy as the Christian People's Party is calling for?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e427	First, I have to say that I am a little surprised and a little disappointed when the representative, Korsberg, says that in many areas of protection where national parks and landscaping are established, there is no compensation, but that the Progress Party and the Centre have had a proposal for compensation. In that case, what the representative of Korsberg really says is that the government does not relate to the Constitution § 105, and that former governments have not done so. Of course that's not right. The basic law § 105 and the general basic principles for compensation apply. It is clear that if you have any limitations on your property that result in significant financial constraints for you, you will be compensated. It'll be replaced. You can't make it any different. What I said was that there would be a review of whether even greater care should be taken to the rights of the landowner in relation to that kind of protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e434	There will be follow-up questions – Øyvind Waksdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e437	The pressures in the coastal zone vary, of course, in terms of settlement and population density. This results in wide variations in the exemption from the construction ban. For example, 92 pst. of the applications for exemption granted by Troms in 1991, while only 21 pst. was granted in Oslo and Akershus. The building ban in the coastal zone is the seizure of private property. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether it would not be more sensible to lift the entire building ban and rather trust that local democracy is able to manage building applications in the usual way, because it is local politicians who know how the shoe prints?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e445	As early as 1965, the Storting decided that there should initially be a building ban in the hundred-meter belt. However, provision was made for a derogation for municipalities. Municipalities may also change this through a regulatory plan. We now have a continuous overview of developments in the coastal zone. It turns out that many of the new buildings that come into the beach zone are replacement buildings for former cabins or residential buildings, or there are smaller stalls and docks. It shows that the situation is under control. What I underlined was that the land disposal is initially the responsibility of the municipalities. But we also have state leaders in this law from 1965. Here you simply have to use your head in relation to where you are in the country and how this is managed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e454	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e457	Now this question is also going to deal with more issues. I want to go back to the question of compensation for protection. Of course, it is true, as the Minister for the Environment says, that compensation is provided when an area is linked to, for example, the environment. national park. The proposal of the Progress Party and the Central Party was that of temporary protection, and that is a completely different issue. The situation is that, pending an assessment of whether or not to protect an area, temporary protection is often introduced, which imposes strong restrictions on the landowner. This means that the area cannot be used for acquisition purposes and that income is excluded. That's exactly what the Central Party wanted to focus on, and what the Minister for the Environment is now saying is to investigate. My question to the Minister for the Protection of the Environment is: Does the Minister for the Environment not see that, pending financial coverage in order to make permanent protection – it often takes a long time, it can take decades from temporary protection to permanent protection – there should also be compensation for loss of income?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e468	I agree with Mr Enoxen that especially in the area of coniferous protection, there are areas that have been said to be interesting for coniferous protection, and then there are many, many years before any conclusion is reached. I intend to change this policy. I have also announced in the State of the State of the Environment Communication that Stortinget has received treatment that voluntary protection of biologically interesting areas should be based more on. The Norwegian Forestry Association has launched a very interesting initiative in which they actually make areas available on a voluntary basis, provided that there is a rapid replacement payment. With regard to the current legislation, it was also handled when the representative, Mr Enoxsen, was put in office. The centre party did nothing to change the replacement law for permanent protection. The last time it was changed, during the Willoch government in 1985, was to the benefit of the landowner. Now this government has launched an investigation, which the Central Party did not want when they themselves put into government, to see if we should further strengthen the claims of landowners affected by the creation of landscape and national parks.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e475	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e478	I want to ask a question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. There has been a report from the Riksrevision with incriminating criticism of child protection. We have just adopted a new Children's Protection Act, which I do not believe takes into account the developments we are now seeing in child protection. In St.meld. No 40 for 2001–02, Child and Youth Protection, as the Befring Committee, emphasises the need for early assistance and support, so as to minimise the need to place children and young people away from home. The Committee took note of a number of takeovers that have been stable since 1993. The evolution shows the opposite. In 1993, there were 5,700 care takeovers. In 2001, the figure was 7,400. The figures for 2002 are not clear, but I know that we will have a clear increase in the number of care takeovers. At the same time, the number of children in need of all types of child protection measures has increased by well over 5000 children. This shows that the number of caretakers has increased dramatically over a short period of time. We in the committee have just given the vote on St.meld. No 40, on the protection of children and young people, without having been made aware of this serious development. What will the Council of State do to respond to this negative development?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e489	In general, we said a part about the development of child protection in St. gemeld. No 40 for 2001–02, not only in terms of taking care, but in fact also in terms of the huge explosion — we can almost call it — in the area of child protection, not least in terms of expenditure for children in need of help. We have also seen developments in the form of an increased need for institutional settings and also more takeovers of care. What we are pleased about, however, is that the biggest increase has been in relation to what we can call home-based measures, i.e. measures taken at home, or placing children in foster homes. The criticism of the National Audit Office has come. We've given back our preliminary answer to this one. The National Audit Office's report was preliminary, and we hope and believe that some of what it says might change. Just as well, as the representative says, we've had a development. And the whole child protection message, to which the Stortinget fortunately joined, is in a way the answer to that representative May Hansen asks about. We're now adding that we're going to get in earlier on child protection, we're going to have a completely different focus. The State shall, as it is known, take over part of the protection of children from 1 January 2003. We also have a number of new approaches in the field of child protection based on community-based measures, MST/PMT, which the representative is well aware of, which actually work and which are preventative of this also by preventing more takeovers. But the general child protection message is kind of the answer, because everything the representative here says has also been a concern on our part when we wrote the child protection message.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e496	Thanks for the answer. It is not the case that there are more preventative measures. When 2,000 of the 5,000 new children who have taken action since 1993, are placed under care, we have not had the development that the Council of State says. The follow-up to the supervision of children receiving child protection measures is referred to in the same report of the Riksrevision as being inadequate and too poor. This has been pointed out by SV innumerable cases — in the processing of messages, in the Questionnaire, in the processing of the budget. There are too few resources in the municipalities and in the county to follow up our most vulnerable and vulnerable people in this country. So there's a gradual reduction in municipal child protection. There was an increase in the number of employees from 1995 to 2001 of 14.5 pst. Similarly, there was an increase of 22.5 pst in the number of children under child protection measures. There have also been increases in child protection messages, which are not included in the figures. Nor is it the case that very many people in this country are offered an MST. In 2001, there were 200 children. What will the Council of State do with this alarming report from the Riksrevision?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e507	It's actually so that more children get help earlier. We have a bunch of examples of that. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Riksrevision report is not based on today. The report applies mainly until 2001 — until the end of 2001. That means that there is nothing in this report from the National Audit Office of a negative nature that the department and I have not been familiar with, and that we have not grasped. The full answer to all the questions asked by the representative lies in the big message, which has been dealt with in Stortinget. In terms of municipalities: efforts have been increased, but there are additional needs. In the case of MST and PMT, all children and young people in need of it today should be assisted by MST. We're going to further increase efforts in this area. We are not familiar with queues and waiting lists to get MST measures today if we consider that the child needs them. If the representative knows, I'd like to know, because then we're going to start.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e516	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e519	I also want to ask a question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. For the single parent group, many cuts have been adopted, such as the reduction of support for childcare and the removal of the general infant supplement. In addition, in 2003 there will be strong cuts in child support and child screening, leading to an increase in child poverty in total. This worries me a lot. In addition, we have heard from Parliamentary leader Jon Lilletun on 7 May that needs-tested child welfare is now being assessed. My questions are: Does the Council of State support Lilletun's play? And: Do the councils work on this issue in the department?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e529	In the case of a need-tested child-responsiveness, the answer is in fact no. I'm not working on that issue in the department, and I have no plans to do it in the near future. I might add that at the Christian People's Party national meeting there was a small – not a big – debate on this issue. However, what has been done by the Christian People's Party is that a sample has been set up to look at all welfare systems in general to assess whether they are good enough. This work will probably take some time, but in the government we have no plans per. the date on which child-restraint needs test is carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e536	I was very happy to hear that. Because, in fact, child welfare is a measure of the child’s best interests, and it should go to the child. Therefore, for example, it is very difficult for the group of single parents not to have any predictability in their economy. Such signals only help to create unrest in the families. I hope we don't get to the point that we get a two-part system in the families, for economic reasons. I therefore hope that this has now been cancelled once and for all, and that the sole parents can breathe something easily out and know that nothing is done to change it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e541	As I said, we're not going to do anything about child welfare right now. Child protection is a universal system. It is a good system, and it is of great importance, not least to the poorest, those who need the most predictable income. There have also been discussions about this in the past, for example. in the Longva Committee. At that time it was also found that one did not want to propose this. I also know that it would be very difficult to choose, for example. to tax or to test the benefit of the child. It is nice that the representative is satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e550	There will be follow-up questions – Ågot Valle.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e553	The representative, Eirin Fallet, was concerned that changes to the rules on contributions have shown that very many people face major economic difficulties. I am very happy that the Workers' Party is also starting to see it later on. There are new tones from them, because this scheme we now have is based on the message from the labor party government. Among other things, a cost model was introduced as if children were an asset to be appreciated — and a very low price — among others. Because you're assuming the standard budget of SIFO. It turns out that this budget does not allow for leisure activities or books in secondary schools, etc., and does not take into account large variations in living standards, so that young people do not have the opportunity to participate in the standard of living of both parents. In addition, a conflict fee has been introduced. Does the Council see that these are elements of the basic rules on contributions that need to be changed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e562	I would first like to say that when the Stoltenberg government presented proposals for new rules on contributions in the Stortinget, this was adopted in Stortinget by a broad majority. What I now follow up as the State Council is completely identical to what the Stortinget decided. In fact, the legislation itself was presented to the Stortinget with different consequences. Of course, I can't stand here and say that I'm going to do about what the Storting has actually decided. Later today, however, we are going to have a meeting with my entire committee, where we are going to review the contributions legislation and the changes that have been made in relation to people who have applied for changes in contributions. The head of the works must also be present. The reality is that it's too early to know how this turns out. At the meeting later today, the President of the State Agency will state that we will need more thorough analysis of the changes that are coming, before we can actually say how this will turn out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e571	The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e576	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Sylvia Brustad to the Minister for Agriculture, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 4, from the representative of Carsten Dybevig to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Agriculture on behalf of the Minister of Justice, who has been removed. Question 8, from the representative of Ranveig Frøiland to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be taken up by the representative of Tore Nordtun. The question will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, who will address it. Question 9, from the representative of Rolf Terje Klungland to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 10, from the representative of Øyvind Vaksdal to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister for the Environment, this question is moved and answered before question 24, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 11, from the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Education and Research, who has been removed. Question 12, from the representative of Elsa Scarbøvik to the Minister for Education and Research, has been withdrawn. Question 13, from Rolf Rekvamm to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Education and Research, who has been away. Question 21, from the representative Signe Øye to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State to answer question 26, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 25, from the representative Berit Brørby to the Minister for the Environment, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e607	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: «In an interview in Stavanger Aftenblad 28 April d.o.b. The customs district manager of Rogaland states that new tasks have been given to her in connection with the reorganization of the establishment. It shall ‘work on the adaptation of Customs to any EU membership’. On what basis can the Government give priority to such a task, and has other government agencies also been given the same task for their activities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e616	The essay in Stavanger Aftenblad – and therefore the question from the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa – is based on a misunderstanding. The customs duty rate wants to focus more on Norway’s relationship with the EU, i.e. on EU-related work tasks. Existence of the EU and Norway pose important and difficult customs challenges in terms of competence, control and other means. The forthcoming enlargement of the EU will increase these challenges for Norway. Strengthening the country's relationship with the EU, including: Thus, through the EEA Agreement, customs is purely justified and has nothing to do with any future Norwegian EU membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e623	It is alarming, I think, that a central person in the customs department can express himself that way, whether this is a misunderstanding. So it says that the customs district manager ‘returns to the Customs and Charges Directorate of Oslo, where she was formerly the head of audit. Now she is to work on the adaptation of Customs to any Norwegian EU membership’. Then she is quoted directly: ‘It’s an exciting task. Norway becoming an EU member will have a major impact on Customs. I will look at how we can best prepare for it." She has already finished in Rogaland and has taken up her new duties. Then I believe that the Minister of Finance will agree with me that there is a need for clarification of the task, so that there will be no further misunderstandings in the customs office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e638	I think you'll have a bad life if you get shocked every time a representative of public businesses, politicians or others gets misinterpreted in an interview. I'm going to recommend a slightly relaxed attitude to it, because it happens, and it's happened to us all. This representative of the Customs Authority is also mistaken. There's no need to dramatize it. In the special task she has now received, it says: ‘The main tasks shall be the work of the Customs Service on Norway’s relationship with the EU’ – and it says, ‘Mv’. It doesn't mean a further connection in the direction of membership, but that means related problems. It is a fact that I believe the representative and I fully agree that the European Union exists and that Norway is outside. It creates certain work tasks and challenges that require special investigation, and we have chosen here a representative of one of our best customs offices to carry out this task.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e650	The President would point out that the ‘related problems’ are an unnecessary negative expression, it tends to be called adjacent glory.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e653	I share the finance minister's view of the fact that we can all be misunderstood, and I am pleased with his comforting answer. I thought it was close enough to have freshened in memory the commitment that was from many added to the customs tariff in 1994, and the warnings that they came with in relation to the changes that membership could entail. It is such that, after Schengen, and with the current border trade, there is a great deal of unrest in many areas – including mine – in relation to their customs framework and the Customs Authority’s ability to give priority to whether ports or airports are now free of customs duties at certain times. It also applies to the reorganisation that one in Egersund, in a special way, is exposed to these days. I assume that the Minister of Finance is pleased that the Storting will follow closely what is happening in the customs office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e664	I can confirm that I am pleased, and I also believe the representative of Meltveit Kleppa and I agree on one thing, namely to fight for each of our views on EU membership. But it does neither the Minister of Finance nor the Right Vice-Chairman through Tollvesenet, to say it like that – that fight can well be said to have been blown off, if it had ever been there. But the representative is in a very important area. We are in the process of reorganising Customs now – a process that started in the autumn of 2001 – with a view to organising, among other things. by customs offices, customs offices and dispatch points, i.e. a location of personnel that is more adapted to the challenges we face. Much has been done with regard to border trade and cross-border activities of a legal and illegal nature in recent years, and the Customs Authority will now update its organisational structure accordingly. I think the rogaland representative will be pleased with the resolution that will be published in the revised national budget tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e679	I have the following questions for the Minister of Culture and the Church: ‘The east folds are in fourth place in games per game. person. Of a total of 574 million. kr from county of Norwegian Typings game [[without extra]] Will the Ministry consider whether gambling revenue can become one of the criteria for award?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e688	The law on gambling, etc. of 28 August 1992 No 103 in Section 10 it is decided that the excess in Norwegian Typing should be distributed for the purposes of sport, culture and research. From 2005 on, sport and culture will still have half of the excess. This year, there were 1,050 million. kr left for sport and culture, and 600 million. kr for research. The funds for 2003 were distributed in accordance with the laws of the Council of State on 25 April. It was set at 525 million. kr to sports facilities in municipalities. Of these, 495 was million. kr broken down into frameworks for the counties. The distribution between municipalities is calculated on the basis of certain criteria to which the Stortinget has previously joined, most recently when managing St.meld. No 14 for 1999-2000, Sports life as amended. The system of gambling agents for facilities for sports and physical activity is based on application. This means that the most important criteria are related to the applications that have been submitted and that have been accepted. Local authorities have given priority to the applications, while the county decides on the distribution. There were approved applications this year for 1,275 million. kr. Applications are distributed among ordinary new plants, the rehabilitation of existing plants and community facilities. All counties receive a similar percentage of applications for rehabilitation and large community facilities. For smaller neighbourhoods, the number of people aged between 6 and 19 is calculated. For ordinary new plants, a three criterion applies: approved application amount, 50 pst., number of inhabitants, 25 pst. and construction coverage, 25 pst. The criterion is intended to contribute to the allocation of gambling funds for construction purposes in relation to local needs. The incentive scheme is application-based and there is no link between the amount of money being played in each state or municipality. This has been the case since the gaming media regimes were introduced in 1948. Such a system is now, the needs of sport are expressed through the applications that come, combined with the local authorities' priorities, which govern the distribution of funds, and the way in which the department it is still going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e709	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have now received a description of the legislation in force and a support post for it, and nevertheless there is little or no connection between the amount it is being played for in each state, and what is being returned to the individual state. Statistically, it is the central East, Uppland and South-Trendelag that get little back. These are areas with high population density and high plant density. It is logical, then, that where there is a higher population density, there is also a need for more facilities. If, for example: Eastfold had got the same thing back as North Tronde Team, they would have gotten 40 million. kr more. Does not the Council of State think that, on the basis of a principle of fairness, there should be greater consistency between the individual state and that which goes back to the individual state, and that new criteria for this should be considered? You have good projects in all the counties, and even if you have a complicated and detailed code, this results in sports that do not all seem to be as pleasant.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e718	I've never felt that there's been any connection between how much is being played in a state and how much sports activity there is in a state. Of course, we have to distribute the funds depending on where the need is greater, and it is the municipalities and the state that know best. They search, and they get funds for the agreed criteria that the Storting has agreed to. When it comes to the question in relation to the people's area, I am summed up in what the questioner said. It's one of the areas we've said we should give priority, no matter how much it's played for, but depending on what the need is. Folketing requires more paths because more ones are needed. The number of inhabitants aged between 16 and 19 is also one of the criteria for these areas. It's quite natural that we take in, but there's no connection between how much people play, and how eager they are on the sports track -- unfortunately, maybe, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e725	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I record that, at least in Eastfold, they work in sports to get a larger share back. You have a lot of good projects, and you want a fairer distribution through a redistribution. It would be a powerful stimulus to the environment if you got there. Does not the Council of State feel that this is a view that can also stimulate sport in individual states?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e732	I don't think there's any connection between the sports activity in each state and how much people play. On the contrary, I don't think the state should compete to play the most to get the most money, it would be a negative effect, I'll actually say. But to work to get a bigger part, states just have to do, but then it has to depend on the kind of project they have, and not how much people play. I actually thought it was a negative criterion the representative asked to be added. Positive criteria, such as population density, activities and priorities in the municipality, must be pursued. But I finally remind you that the criteria that we distribute the funds for are agreed by the Storting, and I stick to the rules that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e749	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e756	This question, from Carsten Dybevig to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Agriculture on behalf of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e759	I want to ask the Council of State the following questions: ‘In Karmsund District Court, a person was released from the police’s claim of money laundering, served after extensive drug sales. The person could present sufficient unregistered winning vouchers from the odds and Norsk Rikstototo to the district court. According to information provided by Haugesunds Avis and other sources, there is a market for the sale of unregistered winning vouchers in Norway. What will the Council of State do to prevent this kind of money laundering?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e768	Without going into the details of the judgment referred to in the question, I can inform you that the court's assessment of evidence takes into account the statements made by the actor that the receipts from the winnings that were charged did not originate from his own gambling business, but were obtained from other players. The Court finds that there is insufficient evidence to this effect. Therefore, the claim of withdrawal of money was not taken as a consequence. However, it is a fact that it can be played on, for example, today. the odds and horse games without the player in question being registered. This allows the winner to appear anonymous to the authorities. This means that today there is a situation in which gambling receipts can be traded illegally and serve as evidence of income that is actually the result of criminal offences. There is reason to look at this situation. First of all, there may be a need for better legislation and regulation to reduce the use of unregistered games, thereby killing the turnover of anonymous winning vouchers. Legislative responsibility falls within the scope of other departments, including the Ministry of Finance. In this context, I mention that the Government has just presented Ot.prp. No 72 for 2002-2003 with proposals for new anti-laundering legislation. The bill opens the door for the King to lay down rules for the new law to apply to gambling activities. If this provision is adopted by the Stortinget, it would be natural for the Government to start drafting regulations that address gambling activities such as those mentioned in the judgment. Registration of players and other measures may be relevant to prevent the movement of receipts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e781	I thank you for your answer. It was an answer that was actually very good. It's the way it's obvious today that there's a hole in the law that makes it actually possible, as the Council of State says, to do money laundering. In Norway we are very capable, I would say, in relation to Ot.prp. No 72, to try to detect and combat money laundering. Norway shall be one of the world’s leading countries in combating money laundering. And when we know that money laundering represents approx. 5 pst. of the world economy, this is a major problem. I would like to thank the Council once again for wanting to draw up regulations and register players in Norwegian Typing. That, I think, will be a clear advantage in the future when it comes to combating money laundering of unregistered tips.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e790	I share the views expressed by the representative here. I think it's important that we in the future increase the effort where we think there may be opportunities for money laundering. There are not so many areas where you can suddenly stand on the street with a large portion of money without there being a fairly good overview of where they came from. One of those areas is just being able to win big horse games. That's why there's also reason to follow this closely. Let me say, since we are in the situation that it is the Minister of Agriculture who is the Council of State for the Minister of Justice and who also has a special responsibility for this area, that in the case of games on horses, trade on horses – we have recently had notices on the introduction of horses, where we operate with completely different numbers in connection with receipts and the basis for value added tax than that for which the horse was purchased abroad, etc. – this is an area that we need to go into more. We're working on a plan of measures to look at these things. We have to get clear lines for when a horse is nourished, operate with open receipts with name and all this going on, and a boundary line for what's hobby, which we know many are hiding under in this area. I'm going to be careful to make claims that it's worse than it is, but at least there's a basis for suspecting that there's some things going on here that we need to create a tighter code for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e799	The President understands that the Minister of Agriculture, as the Council of State for Justice, chooses to bet on that horse.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e802	I just want to say that with today's electronic development, the systems already facilitate registered gambling. The only way to overcome the phenomenon of money laundering is to ban unregistered gambling. There is already a requirement in the tax return that a person is obliged to report losses of gambling. The disadvantage for the individual player will be minimal if you come up with a prescription from the Government, and that will solve the problem that we've seen about a case in Karmsund District Court. Here we can hit two flies in one taste.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e807	I share these points of view. This is well worth taking into account the work the Government is going to do in this field, and I will ensure that the Minister of Justice also gets these points of view into his work together with the Minister of Finance and the Government for other matters related to the legislation in this area. I think the government, like the representative, shares the belief that we need to invest a lot of resources to get money laundering alive, and we're going to promise to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e815	I will be allowed to ask the Minister of Health the following questions: ‘In the press release of the Social and Health Directorate dated 6 May this year, it appears that as many as 1000 Norwegian patients may be infected with hepatitis C virus by transfusion before 1993. What measures, besides requiring patients to report for control, will the Council of State take?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e824	I am serious about the report from the Social and Health Directorate that up to 1 000 Norwegian patients may be infected with hepatitis C virus by transfusion before 1993. After discussions with the directorate, I have found it right to initiate an independent review of the whole matter. As an immediate measure, the Public Health Institute has recommended that those who have had blood before 1994 go to their doctor for a test. The Social and Health Directorate has been asked to send letters to all blood establishments to identify what has been done to detect possible infected people, and to help us find a procedure to track those who have not been identified before. I would like to highlight a little bit of the background because I want an independent review. The number of cases of hepatitis C in Norway has been estimated to be about 0.7 pst. by the population. The disease can be via blood, from mother to child, and by sexual intercourse. The disease usually passes without symptoms, and most become chronic vectors. The most serious sequelae are cirrhosis of the liver and, in a few cases, liver cancer. In 1989 a separate hepatitis C test was developed. It became available in Norway from the beginning of 1990. This test was very little specific and had a false-positive rate of up to 75 pst. three out of four tested with positive findings are not infected, however. From November 1991, the so-called 2nd generation test was launched. This could detect hepatitis C for the first time with a high level of safety. Treatment for liver disease due to hepatitis C was limited in the 1990s to a strict diet regimen and common precautions for hygiene. A slightly more effective treatment with drugs was introduced only in the mid- and late 1990s in Norway. Drug treatment is even today long-term, from six up to 12 months, with a not insignificant risk of side effects. Although testing early in the 1990s was very little specific and produced many false-positive results, the Health Directorate nevertheless required testing for hepatitis C antibodies in a circular from May 1990. The testing requirement included all new donors and was subsequently extended to annual testing. From the beginning of 1993, all losses were controlled for hepatitis C. In a circular dated 7 May 1999, the requirement for testing was further strengthened as a result of improved laboratory techniques. In the same circular from May 1990 from the Health Directorate, it was recommended that the hospitals’ blood banks visited all donors who had received blood from donors who were subsequently tested for hepatitis C positive. The reason why this came as a request and not as a requirement may have been that the available tests were not specific and that the treatment offer was not developed. The only systematic follow-up we have found so far was that all the bleeders who had received blood were offered follow-up. Recommendations were made on testing and exclusion criteria for hepatitis C and blood donation. At some point, however, the detection of possible recipients of the virus should have been delayed, so that one could have made sure that all the patients concerned had received adequate treatment as soon as treatment was introduced. That such detection was not initiated is critical. This is the background that I want an independent review of the case. The report will provide a basis for assessing different types of follow-up by public authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e848	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As usual, the Minister of Health is quick to respond to things to be checked out, and I am satisfied with that. My first supplementary question, of several, is as follows: Why is this case coming up today, ten years after 1993? I don't think it was satisfactory, what was said on the part of the Minister of Health when it came to following these patients. Do you know with any certainty that as much as 1000 patients can be infected, and who is responsible for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e855	As my answer showed, there has been a call to report to get a test for those who have had blood before 1994. In addition, detection measures are in place to identify those concerned. How many it could be, you just have an estimate. The question of why this comes up now, I can only answer so far – before this review has been carried out – that I became aware of this in connection with the creation of this TV program «Fire Point». That's the basis of my knowledge, and I haven't had any knowledge of this before. I believe that the review to be carried out should further answer and clarify that question, so that the necessary follow-up can be done in relation to those responsible. Something more than that I don't want to say at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e864	I thank you again for the answer. I think it is legally late to initiate investigations ten years later as to whether someone is infected or not. And that the starting point for the health minister's knowledge of this is going to be a TV program, testifying to the low credibility of the system at the highest level. Hepatitis is not a banal childhood disease. The disease can cause serious liver damage, resulting in death, after a relatively long and painful development of disease. I want to assure myself here and now from the Minister of Health that the patients who had to be found and have been diagnosed with a serious disease of this virus are getting a better settlement than the patients who were exposed to the Dent-O-Sept brush were given. I would like an answer from the Minister of Health to that, and that he assures me that this will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e873	I fully agree with the representative Alvheim that it is clearly critical that these conditions became known now, and that they became known through the media in this way. I have to deal with that that's how I've been told. I acted immediately – and I mean in an adequate way – when I was told. Then the representative asked Alvheim for compensation in relation to those who had to be charged with this through the public health service. What I can say in general about it is that, as far as it has happened, the usual compensation scheme will apply to these patients, and it will be assessed in the usual way by Norwegian Patient Injury Compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e883	I also have a question for the Minister of Health, and it concerns the maternity wards: «The budget is at the end of the budget. S. No 11 for 2002–03, the Government was required to submit to the Stortinget a financing mechanism for its birthplaces. This applies, inter alia, to: birthplace of the Rjukan in Telemark. When will the Council of State present this matter to the Stortinge?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e892	The Social Committee has asked the Ministry to clarify the responsibilities of the feeding rooms in Innst. S. No 300 for 2000-2001. The Storting has also asked the Government to review the funding of the maternity wards and come back to Stortinget with this, in the Budget-Inst. S. No 11 for 2002-2003, Decision XII. That Decision stated that the operation of the approved official food establishments shall be the responsibility, professional and financial responsibility of the undertakings. The government will in the next St.prp. No 1 for 2003-2004 a comprehensive proposal on the responsibilities and operation of feeding centres. The reason for this is that there has been an overall process in relation to the financing of the specialist healthcare service. The Hagen Committee has been at the hearing this winter, and it is natural for me to present the follow-up to the financial instruments taken together in the context of the 2004 State budget. This also includes the review of the funding of the maternity wards. However, I will now insist that I add up to a further decentralised food supply, in line with the leaders of the Storting. In this context, I refer to the inter-pelling debate on 8 May, where a central theme was the decentralisation of the service provision and the interaction between the primary health service and the specialist health service. The debate showed a broad political consensus on developing decentralised actions, such as: birthplaces. As far as funding is concerned, I refer to the presentation of next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e903	I thank the Council of State for an answer that I really think was positive. I am glad that the Council of State makes it clear that he still wants to work for us to have a decentralised food supply. When I address this question, of course, it's because those who are responsible for the operation of the feeding-rooms are worried about their future and their economic base. The majority in Stortinget have said that they consider the maternity wards to be part of the specialist health service, and thus placed under the responsibility of the enterprises. We see that the municipalities can no longer have anything to do with this operation of the feeding rooms. They may be impatient, but when the Council of State now says so clearly that he will come back to the Storting in the autumn budget, I hope it can be reassuring for those who run the feeding rooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e910	I hope so, too. In the extension of this, let me add that I have stressed to the regional health companies in the 2003 directorial letter that the operation of feeding places is part of the specialist health service, and so part of the responsibility of regional health companies. For the smaller maternity wards, I have assumed that regional health establishments will find appropriate cooperation solutions with primary health services, primarily related to the municipal tasks of midwives in health centres and in maternity control.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e915	I just want to thank you for the answer. As I said, I am pleased that the Minister and I agree that we are still going to have feeding rooms, and that it must be a responsibility for regional health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e925	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In the municipality of Asker, an activity building was started in 1995 for people with psychiatric disorders, in cooperation with the 1st and 2nd line services. Blakstad Hospital has had two trades at the house that have worked very well against the users and as a supervisor for other employees. Health East has decided to withdraw these posts from the Activity House. bad finances. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to downgrade such well-functioning cooperation between the specialist health service and the primary municipality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e934	In the governance papers of regional health enterprises, the Health Ministry’s assumptions and expectations about specialist health services in general, and mental health in particular, are clearly explained. The provision to people with mental health disorders shall be strengthened in its entirety, and the funds allocated to regional health businesses through the Roadmap for mental health shall be used for the purpose for which they have been granted. I would like to make it clear that this does not just mean that regional health businesses need to realise an increase in activity in order to achieve the objectives of the Road Safety Plan. There is also a central premise in the plan and in the governance documents to strengthen cooperation between health companies and municipalities. A good interaction between first- and second-line services is a fundamental prerequisite for patients to experience an overall offer and good continuity of treatment. Interaction must bear the character of equivalent professional cooperation where both parties contribute valuable and equivalent knowledge. I would also like to point out that the specialist healthcare service has a statutory responsibility to provide advice and guidance to the primary health service, and I assume that health care companies are responsible for it. Although the legislation defines limits on the responsibilities of municipalities and enterprises, it will in practice always be grey areas. I have asked all healthcare companies to contribute to this zone becoming a cooperation zone, not a conflict zone. Of course, this can be done in different ways. In the Roadmap for Mental Health, a significant effort has been made to strengthen the decentralised specialist healthcare system through the establishment of several district psychiatric centres. This so-called DPS model is intended to serve as a specialist healthcare service, but is intended to overcome the grey areas through extensive cooperation with the primary health service. This work is ongoing throughout the country, also in the Asker region. The cooperation that has been established through the Aktivshuset in Asker Municipality is a model that, according to the representative, Höglund seems to have worked well, and I therefore asked Health East to explain the starting point of this case. According to Health East, the Aktivshuset in Asker, known by the representative Højlund, was established in 1995 in cooperation between Blakstad Hospital and Asker Municipality. The aim was to stimulate the municipality to establish a daily service. Later, the municipality has also incorporated a day centre for the physically disabled in this activity house. The house is a municipal responsibility, while the health company is responsible for guidance and treatment. I assume that the borderline between the responsibility of the specialist health service and the primary health service in such cases is not always as simple. However, the health undertaking must continue to ensure that the Activity House receives good support from the specialist health service, and both the municipality and the health undertaking must contribute to good cooperation relations. I also assume that the health company and the municipality will also find appropriate cooperation models for the future. As I am briefed on the matter, it is so absolutely not taken into account to deprioritise the cooperation between the health company and the municipality. For my part, I will follow up this in my governance dialogue with Health East.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e951	I thank the Council of State for the answer and I appreciate the fact that we will try to work together here. The decision, which was announced to the municipality, came forward without a dialogue in advance, and was probably disappointing in relation to the Council of State here sketching. Governments also outlined a strengthening of psychiatry provision in general. The municipalities have taken over much of this in recent years, and there is, of course, some uncertainty in the municipalities. The cooperation between the specialist health service and the municipalities is, as I see it, very necessary and provides security in the offer. Psychiatric patients have a life situation that can fluctuate, so users can experience many different situations in a year. The security provided by such qualifications in an activity building should be of interest to the specialist health service, not least in preventing and ensuring the avoidance of, for example: unnecessary insertions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e960	Let me fully agree with the representative of Høglund that a good dialogue between the specialist health service and the primary health service, between the health company on the one hand and the municipality on the other hand, is important, and I strongly stress to health companies that it is also desirable and necessary in the development of a comprehensive service provision for users/patients. The stability that can be achieved in these services is also important, not least for this patient group. I trust that forms of cooperation and support can be found professionally at the Aktivshuset as a municipal offer in the future. And as I said in my first answer, I'll follow up on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e967	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I hope that you will do so and find a solution for these positions. There may be a lot to say for the heaviest users of the Activity House, for whom the professional organisation is important. As far as I can see, the Health East decision also applies to more municipalities than Askers, so there is a fundamental issue to how much specialist health service should be directly involved in the activities of municipalities. But here I appreciate the wish of the Council of State that it is the concern of the users who are the important thing, and that appropriate forms of cooperation are found without much maintaining what is basically the responsibility of the municipality, and what is the responsibility of the specialist health service. It must be the offer given, which must be the decisive one.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e974	I share these intentions. Of course, I don't want to go into and discuss individual positions, but basically and legally, health companies have a clear responsibility to cooperate with, guide and support primary health services. To a large extent, I think that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e982	This question, from the representative of Ranveig Frøiland to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be raised by the representative of Tore Nordtun. The question will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, who will address it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e985	I have the following questions for the Minister: ‘State power is required to sell ownership parts resulting from acquisitions made by the company. Sals are imposed on the basis of size and competition, although Statekraft is the third largest in the Nordic market. Both Vattenfall and Fortum are bigger. They also have a greater share of Swedish and Finnish production capacity than is the property of Statekraft in Norway. How do you think the Council of State we can get a power company in Norway that can compete with the Nordics, when the authority prevents State power from expanding?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e994	First of all, I would like to stress that the competitiveness of Statkraft will depend on many factors. A fundamental prerequisite is the company's ability to operate economically. This is not only affected by the size of the company and its potential for further purchases. The acquisition of power plants by the State in recent years has been treated in accordance with the distribution of competences established by the Competition Act and provided for in the treatment of St.prp. No 51 for 2000-2001, in the position of the Energy and Environment Committee on the injection of deposit capital and increased loan and guarantee frameworks for Statkraft SF. In a competitive context, it is a fundamental principle that private and public actors should be treated equally by applying the same standards. Competition supervision shall deal with the individual cases dealt with under the law. The Ministry of Labour and Administration is an appeal body. These are fundamental principles — especially in the implementation of the distinction between the regulatory role and the ownership role. State power is therefore not discriminated against in comparison with other actors subject to Norwegian competition law. And Statkraft is therefore subject to Norwegian competition law. As the owner of Statkraft, I will always be concerned that the company can operate economically and that it can be competitive. But I must of course also, in my own practice, assume that the company will operate within the framework of, among other things. the Competition Act. The answer to the original representative Frøiland's question is therefore that Statkraft has the same opportunities, and I would say exactly the same opportunities, as any other company to develop within the framework of Norwegian rules and laws adopted by this assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1007	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The answer was as much as expected. But I also expected to see this in a slightly larger perspective now, when the Nordic power market has expanded and we have a Nordic power exchange and, in part, a European power exchange. State power competes with the other state and semi-state companies also in the Nordic region. If we are to follow up State power with what has also been said in the Stortinget, and from the point of view of which the Stortinget has given State power, that it is going to be a large, heavy, tonal energy company based on hydropower production not only in the Nordic countries but also in Europe, does the Council not see that the competition law we now have narrowed within Norway's borders with regard to this industry will prevent State power from being a large international energy company?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1014	There is no doubt that there is a conflict of interest between the size of a market and competition law. It is clear that if you allowed Statkraft to buy all Norwegian hydropower, it would maximize the potential goal for Nordtun to achieve the highest possible State power. But we know what would happen to the prices of Norwegian consumers and Norwegian industry. Already, there are significant signals from Norwegian industry related to the fact that we have an actor that is already as large as it is. Nor is it true, as Nordtun says, that the Storting has used formulations on ‘large’ and ‘heavy’ or actors in Europe. What Stortinget has said is that Statkraft must be given the opportunity to develop in a Nordic perspective. They have done so, and they have made large purchases of power plants both in terms of hydropower and, in fact, nuclear power stations, in Sweden, for example, as we have large holdings in Southern power. There is no doubt that the industrial freedom State power has had will continue, and we have no intention of anything else. But to weaken competition law to further increase State power in Norway, I don't think on behalf of consumers is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1023	Thank you. I see, the Council of State so that the Council of State and the Government are pleased that we have a forest of companies in the power sector in Norway, and that this will maintain competition. Then I just want to remind the council of state, which is really looking for efficiency and good economy in the individual companies, that I think they'll be significantly weakened if we're going to run that line. But is it so to understand that the Government will now support Statkraft by providing greater loan opportunities for Statkraft, i.e. loan capital? And is it that the Government will also pursue a different ownership policy towards Statkraft in the future in terms of its return and its withdrawal? We were up to over 90 p.m., I saw, in the autumn budget. Does that mean, then, that a normal dividend policy will be pursued in State power in the future, namely that State power can make bigger muscles go out in the Nordic countries and in Europe, and that it is not only seen in a narrow national perspective with state ownership in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1030	The representative Nordtun, in my opinion, mixes two issues. One is that when he ends with ‘out in the Nordic countries and in Europe’, I have no difficulty in participating in such a strategy. What is problematic is that if we accept that State power would grow further in Norway on the purchase of power plants, then Stortinget will have to change competition law. I have not heard that signal from Stortinget – much less in the form of decisions. In terms of returns, it is free in each budget to determine it — and so does the Storting. As far as I remember, the size has set it – also with the Workers' Party's membership in the last year's state budget – at approx. 90 pst. of the surplus. What will lie in next year's budget, remains to be seen. With regard to the extended loan frameworks in Statkraft, they're on, as far as I remember, NOK 52.5 billion, and you've drawn almost NOK 50 billion in loan capital. If it makes commercial sense, based on the values in the company, to further expand that loan framework, I will not be able to answer here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1052	This question has been raised. Question 10 will be answered later, before question 24.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1061	This question, from the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Education and Research, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1064	I have the following questions for the Minister of Education and Research: ‘In Sámi University of Kautokeino, management has notified that they will resign if the school’s economy is not improved as soon as possible. Based on a look-up in Finnmark Dagblad on 25 April d.o.b. is about 3.1 million. in additional appropriations which the school considers necessary in order to be able to continue operations in line with management's intentions. What action will the Council of State take as part of ensuring the school’s continued operation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1073	The Board of Sámi College announced at a time that it would withdraw from office, as was the case with the questioner, if the university was not awarded approx. Three million. kr extra in 2003. The Ministry of Education and Research wishes to find a solution to the further development of higher education and, in the view of the Ministry, as a basis for an assessment, there is a need for a review of the budgetary situation at the Sami College. The Ministry has therefore, following dialogue with the Sami College, set up a process in which the economic situation of the university is analysed jointly and with external assistance. The aim is to obtain a material that provides the basis for assessing any action taken in 2003 and to see it further in relation to the professional development of higher education, cf. St.meld. No 34 for 2001-2002 on higher Sami education and research. The Ministry emphasises that further work is carried out in dialogue with the Sami College and that work is carried out quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1082	The Storting has been presented with the Finnish Law, which outlines, at an overall level, a piece of legislation linked to what should be special rights for indigenous peoples. It's a big deal in itself. I will not get into the details of that matter now. What we see here is – I don't know if we should say less – examples of the concrete everyday life in relation to the struggle that we like to face in terms of Sami culture, Sami language and the observance of Sami education, which also applies to Sami journalist education. There appears to be a need for a different kind of understanding that extra resources are needed in environments that are particularly vulnerable. The Council of State sees that universities and colleges in general and in Sami higher education environments cannot be considered equally, given the vulnerability of small environments, where more resources are often needed to build up and care for the professional environments, more resources to build, for example, the local government. a Sami journalism training and other professional environments, and avoiding situations where environments are being pushed, the professional environment is being disbanded and professionals resigning?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1089	It is, of course, the ministry's belief that there needs to be a different understanding of Sami higher education, which has led to dialogue. It is a concession – if you can say so – by the department, because you want to go behind the figures and have a good dialogue, so that you have a common understanding of the needs that are clearly linked to the special challenges of Sami culture, language and education. This is why a dialogue has now been launched to clarify how and why additional appropriations have been needed. Following a series of rounds between the Ministry and the administration of higher education, the parties agreed on a mandate for the review of the economic situation of higher education. It has prevented the threats that have been posed from withdrawing the posts. And so is it that it has been agreed that this should be carried out quickly for the purposes of further planning of higher education. I showed that the Sami University has also been appointed to become a scientific college. External environments have been included, and this will provide a good basis for assessing the need in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1096	Given that it is the Minister for Fisheries who answers here today, I would like to ask a follow-up question which is, to a large extent, linked to the special situation in Finnmark, with the dependence on fisheries resources in relation to education. What we see is that often, even in the coastal environments of Finnmark, there is a lack of competence in fishing. Basics, primary industries, but not necessarily in such a way as to build up skills and have people with high levels of education in the fisheries sector. Does the State Council have any idea of the Sami college and higher education community in general in Finnmark of using this type of competence in typical coastal Sami areas, where it may not be reindeer management, but precisely the fisheries that have been the traditional way of life, and where it is seen that there is a need for measures to continue the type of culture and to ensure the settlement and viability of local communities in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1103	Now I am uncertain whether the questioner asks about the thoughts of the Minister of Fisheries or the thoughts of the Minister of Education! It is clear that fjord fishing and fishing related to the Sami environment are a challenge in the field of fisheries policy. It is clear that the University of Kautokeino, which in many ways manages essential parts of the educational culture, can have something to do with this. Here I do not overlook the fact that we in the Ministry of Fisheries – and if I can say we in the Ministry of Education – actually have some points of contact that we should look at in the future, not least when, hopefully, the university is about to develop into a scientific college.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1110	The President must say that it was an elegant transfer from one to another!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1123	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1129	This question, from the representative of Rolf Rekovam to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Education and Research:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1132	I would like to ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions, which will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries: ‘On written questions from the undersigned on 6 December 2002 concerning the copy fee at the University of Oslo, the State Council replied that ‘The principle that students are only required to pay for real benefits remains valid. Since the copying needs of the different student groups of an institution may vary, the copy fee must be adjusted accordingly.’» However, on 25 March of this year, the College of the University adopted a flat compulsory copy fee of DKK 400 per year. student. Is this not in conflict with both the Council's response and the Department's own guidelines?'
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1141	The reply to the representative of Reikvam shows that the Stortinget has authorised the Ministry to organise the collection of the Kopinor fee and the expenditure on paper/copy for students at the underlying institutions, cf. Budget-in-one. S. No 12 for 2002-2003. By 1998 at the latest, the Ministry presented the guidelines to which the institutions had to deal with the collection of copy and paper money. According to the Guidelines, such a charge may be levied only in so far as it relates to payments for real benefits. There must be consistency between the performance and the counter-performance. The so-called copy money shall cover the costs of institutions, including costs of copying the protected material. As the copying needs of the different student groups at an institution may vary, the copy money must be adapted accordingly. This has also been reported by the Ministry in a letter to the Student Parliament in Oslo on 3 December 2002. The principle that students only have to pay for real benefits remains valid. A student group shall not pay for more than what is provided and a student group shall not subsidise the study material of other student groups. This is to ensure that there is no hidden charge for the studies on the part of the institutions. The Ministry has been informed that the Management Board of the University of Oslo has decided that funding will be required from the students from the autumn semester 2003 onwards to cover the costs of the Kopinor fee, copying and paper. The coupons shall be DKK 200 per month. semester for all programme students, except for students in practical and pedagogical education. For these students, the payment is fixed at NOK 125 per person. holiday. Part-time students are required to pay NOK 100 per month. holiday, and private individuals are exempted from the scheme. The University of Oslo has also stated that they have calculated copying costs, etc. for different student groups – broken down by factorial — at the institution, and then at an amount lower than the copying costs, etc. for the student group with the lowest expenditure item for copying, etc. By placing the copy money at a level lower than the minimum level of the institution's units, the university claims that no student group is subsidized by another student group. In the view of the Department, the solution is therefore not contrary to the guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1156	I thank you for your answer. Firstly, I am aware of what the Storting has decided, that the institutions have the right to charge a levy if they think it appropriate. I'm still surprised at the answer, because here they operate with a flat fee, a fee that is equal to for all students. Although the university and the management say that the fee is so low that there are no subsidies between the different groups, I am still surprised that they operate with a flat fee. My supplementary question to the minister is: Wouldn't it be basically right that one went in and showed what kind of expenses the different groups have, and then, according to it, made a system of payment? As a result, a flat-performance system was released, which most people would clearly see as a general study fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1165	The Ministry has examined the material submitted by the University. They don't object to the practice, precisely because you have lower than the average at the minimum price, and then because you've differentiated. As I said, the copy fee is $200 per month. semester for programme students, while those who are in practical-pedagogical education must pay DKK 125 per year. vacation and part-time students 100 SEK. Privatists are exempted from the scheme. It's a differentiation already. The real costs have been taken into account, and in this way a system has been put in place that is practical and does not allow anyone to subsidize another group.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1172	I want to try to take a principle approach: one introduces a flat fee, and then one covers itself behind that this is a fee that will cover some costs. Nevertheless, it's flat in that way that it's equal to every student, with the little modification that the Council of State has explained. Will the Council not take this as a general study fee? Will this not have the character of a general study fee when a person enters and establishes a flat scheme rather than going in and saying that the copy cost is such and so for the different faculties, institutes or whatever it may be, and then charge a fee based on it? As he charges a flat fee, this is the nature of a tuition fee. Does not the Council of State have any fundamental concerns about imposing such a general charge as is perceived by the vast majority of students as a tuition fee? Is this the first step on a path towards introducing a general tuition fee at our educational institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1179	There are two aspects that I would like to point out in this context: Firstly, I understand that the institutions want to find a practical solution to the collection of these charges. It has been done in a way that, in the view of the Department, is in line with the views we have. Secondly, institutions do not have the option of refusing students access to the examination in case of non-payment of the copy money. However, students may be refused copies unless they pay. The principle of this must be reconciled, not least from the point of view of practicality. As I have said in my two previous answers, the fees are lower than the real costs, and then the ministry does not object to – in this case – the Oslo University, practicing the scheme in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1192	Here is a question to the Minister for Fisheries, who is within the responsibility of the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The Ministry has, as I know, agreed to the proposal to move the existing oil warehousing pot from Fedje in Hordaland to Florø. Annually it is approx. 2 500 calls to the oil refinery in Mongstad, Europe's second largest port of oil. The transfer is against unanimous advice from the municipalities concerned and from the County Committee in Hordaland. In view of the huge tanker traffic and the enormous environmental impact on the Hordaland Archipelago of any accident, will the Council of State make a new assessment in order to maintain the oil defence pool in Fedje?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1201	The decision to move the existing oil defence pot from Fedje to Florø has been taken on the basis of a comprehensive analysis of the equipment and personnel needs of the State oil defence tool along the entire Norwegian coast. State preparedness is dimensioned in order to deal with major emissions in the event of ship accidents. In the light of that analysis and a comprehensive consultation round, changes were proposed to the depository structure in the West. The proposal included the closure of the Fedje deposit. At the same time – and I stress at the same time – it was proposed to strengthen the depot, which is currently located in Bergen, and to move it northwards in the section where there are several sites with satisfactory infrastructure. Furthermore, it was proposed to establish a new depot in Florø in order to achieve a shorter response time northwards towards City, where the preparedness coverage is not satisfactory according to this analysis. During the consultation round, there were objections to the move of the oil warehousing pot on Fedje from local and regional levels, as pointed out. On this basis, the Ministry of the Environment asked the SFT to re-assess the transfer of the oil-protection pot from Fedje to Florø. In line with this, a specific emergency analysis for the external part of Fensfjorden/Nord-Hordaland has been carried out by the Coast Guard Agency, which took over the responsibility of the SFT for the State Oil Protection Preparedness from 1 January this year. Even without using the State Emergency Reserve in Fedje and without all the other response time resources being fully used within the given response time requirements, the analysis shows that sufficient resources are available to achieve the oil protection preparedness objectives in the area. It is related to the fact that both Sture and Mongstad have built up a significant private preparedness. This can quickly be mobilised by a state action also outside the enterprise’s primary geographical area of responsibility. The coastal works have established agreements to this effect in concrete terms. Furthermore, annual exercises are conducted based on interaction between state, private and municipal resources under government direction in the area, so it is known that this works. In total, there are approx. 16,000 meters of running water with lenses and 43 recorders within the area we're talking about. Thus, material resources do not restrict preparedness in the area. The decision to move the depot in Fedje must also be seen in the context of the strengthening and extension of the state oil defence pool in Bergen in the Hjeltefjord. These two measures will be coordinated in time. It is therefore proper and proper to make the change that we have notified.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1216	From different levels, concerns have just been expressed that the additional analysis for the Fensfjord and Mongstad/Sture regions carried out is not good enough. It does not provide a proper traffic view and a correct description of the situation which may actually arise on the basis of the extent of the calls, the size of the ships and the type of cargo. In fact, the last additional analysis was also excluded from disclosure for a period of time. Does the Council of State consider that he is satisfied that the risk analyses provide a proper basis for decision? And does the Council of State believe that the matter is informed under the provisions of the Administrative Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1223	I'm a little surprised that to those degrees you draw this supplementary analysis into doubt. There is, of course, considerable consistency between what was originally analysed and what was reinforced by this last one. So, as I have explained, and which will be well known in the other context, the material amount that exists in the region is such, when we look at the private, municipal and state equipment, that the situation is judged to be satisfactory and sound within this region. There is reason to stress that the Ministry of Fisheries, which has overall responsibility for adequate oil protection, has gone deep into this. And we think it's justifiable. The consequences of a large acute oil spill could, of course, be extensive if and when a possible incident occurs. Therefore, preparedness must be at an acceptable level along the whole coast. And looking at the significant security measures that are established in connection with the entrance at Sture and Mongstad, and the significant private and public preparedness that is also built up in the area, I find it absolutely sound that the oil defence pot at Fedje is being moved to Florø.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1230	After all, if you conclude that the risk is safe covered, it depends on how you describe the risk situation itself. Among the 2,500 approaches, there are 50 calls of ships of more than 300000 deadweight tons. It is known that some of these ships that have been on Mongstad have subsequently failed in machinery and power elsewhere. The events could as well have occurred on the way into or on the way out of the area, and it underlines the high risk in the area. I have listened to the answers, but will still have the following as a last additional question: Can the Council of State imagine a both- and-solution, in which the oil defence pot on Fedje is maintained, since it is located in the middle of a high-risk zone and thus can reach a current and difficult event for a minimum of time?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1237	I think it is important that, in the assessments that are now being made, we insist that it is the overall preparedness that needs to be looked at in this context. I get the feeling that now in the description of the risk you connect it one-sidedly to whether you have a presence on Fedje or not. It's kind of going to be a mistake. I underline what I said earlier, that you can't look at the transfer of the depot from Fedje to Florø unilaterally, because we're doing something else at the same time: we're moving the depot located in the Bergen center, further into the ship's joint. This is how you compensate for the reduced amount of equipment in Fedje, and the total is getting better. The sum of the private, the state and the local government makes it very satisfactory, especially when you move from Fedje. But I underline that we need to see the move out of Bergen in connection with the move from Fedje to Florø.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1247	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Five years ago, 60 fillet facilities were located in North Norway. Today there are 10 plants left. Until last year, 33 fishing industrial plants were registered in Finnland, now 14 of them have stopped operation. This dramatic dehulling in the fishing industry is particularly severe for small communities along the coast. What strategy does the Council of State have, in the short and long term, to reverse this negative trend?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1256	Let me first say that I'm not going very well with the numbers that the questioner refers to. The data available to the Ministry show that between 1998 and 2002 19 whitefish cases were opened in the three northernmost counties. But in any case, dehulling is significant, and I recognize, of course, that development is a major challenge, both for the fishing industry and for settlement and other activity along the coast. What is the main challenge is that the industry is struggling with a lack of profitability, and it is essential that we improve profitability in order to have viable coastal communities. As politicians, we need to facilitate a profitable business, i.e.: in this case, the fishing industry — over time — is able to operate economically. It has been neglected by previous governments, which have focused more on using fisheries policy as a regional policy instrument instead of realizing that it is a regional industry. The Norwegian fishing industry has a major cost challenge in relation to most competing countries. It meets the Government with a policy that has dropped interest rates and that has brought down the krone price, so that competitiveness is strengthened. Secondly, in order to improve the framework conditions in both the short and long term, the Government has implemented policy measures in the form of lower taxes and taxes, and we have announced that we will continue the system of differentiated employer charges, which will be important for the fishing industry in Northern Norway and in much of the country elsewhere. We have also introduced measures in the form of regulations on fishing, so that we will supply the fishing industry, not least in North Norway, more year-round. For it is a major challenge that seasonal fisheries are currently a barrier to profitable jobs and full-time jobs that attract young people. We see a failure in the recruitment of both industry and the coastal fleet, with which we have to do something. We have taken into account the delivery conditions of the trawls, and we recognise that the historical obligations relating to individual processing plants in North Norway must be continued. But at the same time, we recognise that in those cases where the industry is not interested in buying, we need to ensure that the region benefits from the raw material and that in this way we secure industry in a region. The worst thing that can happen now is that you only get a liquidation that makes large regions have no industry. That was why I opposed the pressure from various parties in this house to take all the cod in the lovot fishing, which would have made the fishing industry in Finnmark less raw material over the fall. So that's part of the measures. We have also taken action to increase the level of technology in the fishing industry. We need to recognise that it is difficult to achieve profitability with high labour costs – as it is now – there needs to be more technology in the fishing industry. I have taken the initiative in June to have a meeting between research institutions, industry and politicians, i.e. the ministry, in order to see if we should channel research resources and other means into improving technology and increasing technology levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1271	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I fully support what he says that profitability must be priority no. 1st@item: inlistbox That's also the starting point for my follow-up question. In Finnmark we have per. Today — the last report came yesterday — seven to eight plants in operation, one of them having a profit. Liquidity is the dramatic thing about the situation right now. The working party proposed a guarantee scheme for the fishing industry a few months ago of 200 million. kr. FHL was then skeptical of such a system, today giving the other signals. They are positive about it, and it comes both from the large national companies and from the small local companies. The government has been against such a scheme all along. My question to the Minister for Fisheries is: What kind of alternative solution does the Government have to help lift the fishing industry out of the difficult liquidity situation it is in right now?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1282	That's what I tried to answer, because the keyword in this is profitability. We're not saving the industry by securing liquidity when lack of profitability is the main problem. I recall that the proposal that came from the Workers' Party clearly stated that it should not be anti-competitive. It is a misunderstanding to believe that profitability increases by providing liquidity. It is true that in the fillet industry, relatively few installations remain along the coast, not just in Finnmark. Norway Seafoods is an example of success. It has ensured full-time operation by disposing of the trawls. It has been ensured by using more technology and thus reducing costs. We have contributed significantly from the Government by bringing the interest rate and the exchange rate down. In addition, believing that we can solve the problems by injecting state capital is not correct. I'll give an example to illustrate it: In Tromsø, Alfon Krämer said in his time, and he was quite right: if we now allow my competitors to refinance several times and get free liquidity loans, I also go bankrupt. It is this distortion of competition that will be the consequence of the Workers' Party's proposal, and then there would be even fewer installations in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1291	It is not about injecting capital into filet facilities today, it is about lifting them over a knee. When the Council of State mentions Norway Seafoods, it's interesting, because the Norwegian Seafoods also attended the big fisheries conference in Båtsfjord and said the same thing as I say: you need a little liquidity boost right now. And it is disappointing that the Fisheries Councils will not listen to either the big companies or the small companies, and that he has no alternative to contribute to this situation. It is not about injecting money in the long term, it is not about distortion of competition, but it is about paying its current costs until you can get over it, because it is profitable in the long term in the fishing industry. The state council knows that, I know that, and it also says the industry itself. The problem is that at present liquidity is so low that plants are at risk of shutting down, because for a short time there are major problems. I did not get an answer to my question about what are the alternatives, and I regret that on behalf of the coastal fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1300	The last thing is that you don't want to hear. You don't want to hear the answers, because I've given the answers here, and I've given the answers in other contexts. You might just want to hear the answers you've decided on in advance, which are one-sided about subsidising some companies, which in turn will have the effect of weakening the others. So you can explain as much as you want, that liquidity improves profitability, but it doesn't. It is necessary to take some basic steps to ensure profitability. I'm going to give an example that this with the liquidity was not a problem in winter. When the proposal was here, the Workers' Party threatened that the purchase would collapse. No, the problem in winter was that there was a bargain of fish that made the quality go down, which in turn led more fish out of the country unprocessed. And that's how we have to be willing to take, and not unilaterally think about 1970's solutions to inject more public capital into the industry, because profitability and liquidity are not the same. But there will be poor liquidity of poor profitability, and I invite the Workers' Party to take fundamental action in the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1310	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘The Marine Research Institute PINRO in Murmansk determines in new reports that large values equal to 2 pst. of confiscated quantum discarded overboard by Russian fishermen. It is concluded that Norwegian fishermen also cast large values. The challenges in the fishing industry are high, with bankruptcy and increasing unemployment. A greater degree of exploitation of the total quota would contribute positively. For example, Iceland has a cod utilisation rate of 95 pst. What will the Council of State do with this problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1319	The problem of exploitation of fish resources in general, and cod in particular, is essentially two issues — not just one. The first issue relates to the draft fish, while the second concerns the extent to which the raw material is used after the fish has landed. Draft fish represent a serious form of resource dissipation. Drafts are no longer ethically sound and are of course something that must and must be avoided as far as possible. Therefore, 15 years ago, we introduced draft bans on cod and hay in the Norwegian economic zone in Norway, and within five years, all the main commercial species we fish were subject to a similar ban. In addition, we have gradually developed quite comprehensive measures to prevent fishermen, as far as possible, from picking up fish that they do not see fit to keep. These instruments consist, inter alia, of: in minimum size and mesh size provisions for the gear, as well as the closure of fishing grounds with excessive incorporation of fish below minimum dimensions. In addition, considerable efforts have been made for a number of years to develop tooling technologies, including: with the aim of ensuring a better selection. In these areas, Norway is, in fact, one of the world's top players, and we are using considerable resources to inspire other countries to take advantage of the same technological solutions and take the same positions. Last but not least, we are trying to prevent discards through Coast Guard inspections on the fishing grounds. I can therefore assure you that we take the relationship that is being addressed here in a very serious way, and that all forms of illegal discarding of fish that are being exposed are being severely reduced, because it is a form of environmental crime that is not acceptable. In the case of Russia, they have had a similar draft ban on cod and other important commercial species in their economic zone for about as long as we have had it in Norway. And just as Norwegian control authorities enforce the law in the Norwegian fisheries jurisdiction, so Russian control authorities enforce the law in the Russian economic zone. Therefore, Norway has no direct influence on the level of drafts in the Russian economic zone, apart from the fact that there is a problem under discussion in the Permanent Committee on Management and Control under the Joint Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission. This is a subject that has been mentioned on every occasion. President, if I can just get time to touch the other issue that I traveled, I would say that the exploitation of the raw material after the fish has landed is something that we are also very concerned about. I have inherited from a former government that is not foreign to the questioner, the department’s vision ‘Values from the sea – the future of Norway’. It's just within the area that you're asked for, making full use of resources, and it's not to waste resources in the form of drafts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1334	I would like to thank the Council of State for its thorough response. The previous questions also showed that the challenges along our coast are very big. There are bankruptcies and closures that come into focus. I want to hear very clearly from the Council of State whether he can confirm the information that comes from my question, that there is an actual dumping taking place. Although we have clear regulations and bans today – we have legal regulations on this – if this is happening on a large scale, we need to address the issues in a new way and look at other types of instruments to stop them. I think it's going to be wrong if we rest on the current law and are not willing to go in and look at these major challenges in a new way. We see that there are a number of other countries that think new about being able to take advantage of a larger part of the fish. I also want to ask the Council of State in terms of mesh size, whether it is such that the Council of State will also be able to change some of the provisions that now exist, so that we can actually apply smaller fish as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1345	The questioner says that there is a focus on bankruptcy. It is a fact that the industry has problems. But I should hope that we could also be in this room to bring forward the opportunities that are offered by the Norwegian fishing industry. For every time everyone in this room is occupied with just misery descriptions, we reinforce it. That's why I think it's very positive that a problem area like this is being traveled. With regard to Russia's handling of this, our influence is limited to the dialogue we have in the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission, where drafts are a matter from time to time. We cannot go in and check in the Russian zone, just as Norwegian fishermen would appreciate the fact that the Russians controlled this type in the Norwegian zone. As regards the mesh size, it is of course up to us to change it on the Norwegian side. But it is not a current issue, because what is described here is not a Norwegian issue. At my discretion, we have a check on this from the Norwegian side that is satisfactory. The big challenges are using 100 pst. of the fish. Today we are throwing large parts or not taking full advantage of the so-called by-products. There's an enormous potential for development here. And with the approach the questioner has, I see that we have a lot to do in common.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1354	For once, I believe that the Minister for Fisheries and I very much agree on the possibilities for the whole of Norway. But at the same time, we also have to focus on what's negative, in a constructive way, and when we get that kind of knowledge, I think one has to go into it in a serious way, when one sees what's happening all along the coast. I think the Council of States is a little defensive of what goes on with Russia, even if we have a sample to deal with it. Political pressure, the fact that one is a driving force and has a strong commitment, can also lead across borders. I would encourage the Council of State as much as I can to address these issues by virtue of its position and not delegate this downwards in the system. When it comes to the question of mesh size, this is about how we can exploit a larger part of our catch than we can actually do today. When there are other countries that have done this in a good way, our attitude and approach must be that we should do the same. [[President clubs]] Then the question – I will end – is to the Council of State: What is his ambition, or how does he intend to address this challenge in the time to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1361	I hope that's understanding that if I'm going to explain my ambitions in this area over the one minute I have, I get a short time, because I have more ambition than that. I do not agree with the description that we should almost be a retard both in terms of tool technology and in terms of the use of the by-products. We're way out there. On the part of the Government, we have invested considerable resources in research, just as industry does, to exploit by-catch and so-called waste products. But it must not be mixed with the draft. The issue of discards is related to fishing for sub-target fish, illegal fish, or fish that are not being exploited. There are two issues that we have to keep separate. At the same time, however, we must recognise that from the Norwegian side it is through dialogue and exchange of views and knowledge that we can influence the Russians. Norwegian fishermen and Norwegian authorities would probably not appreciate the fact that Russian authorities would carry out this verification, which is entrusted to national authorities. But we have an offensive attitude. I will meet the new Russian fisheries minister in Canada if the Stortinget allows it in relation to some debates that are going to take place, and I hope that we will have a good dialogue at political level in the future, as my predecessors have had with the predecessors of Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1368	Then the Minister for Fisheries will have a well-deserved redemption!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1374	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The road authorities of the Member States have identified the implications for the extension of today’s E6 from two to four fields on the Gardermoen-Moelv route. Will the Council of State contribute to the conduct of a similar investigation for E6 from two to four fields on the Moelv-Trondheim route?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1383	The new tribal road standards assume that four fields are needed when annual traffic is more than 10000 vehicles. As part of the work of the National Transport Plan for the period 2006-2015, the Road Directorate has analysed which parts of the Tribal Road Network, based on these criteria, need to be extended to four or more blocks in a 30-year perspective. E6 between Oslo and Trondheim is an important and heavily trafficked part of our tribal road network. Based on current traffic forecasts, the sections Oslo-Moelv-Øyer and Melhus-Trondheim on the E6 will need four or more fields over these 30 years. On the intermediate route Øyer-Melhus the traffic base is lower. The Swedish Road Administration will start work on an impact assessment for the conversion of E6 from two to four fields from Melhus to Trondheim. In addition, the Vegvesen will carry out necessary investigations on the further development of E6 between Moelv and Melhus. I can also mention that the first demonstration project in Norway for the zero vision of fatal and serious road traffic damage is now being launched on the E6 between Lillehammer and Øyer. Here, as part of the project, different types of safety measures will be tested on existing roads, which could help reduce the accident rates on this route. The development of E6 as a whole will be further assessed as part of the work of the National Transport Plan 2006-2015. In the context of the national transport plan, I am committed to placing greater emphasis on the development of the main road network, both in order to reduce accident rates and to improve the transport capacity of business.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1401	I am pleased that the Council of State will at least focus on expanding the tribal road network. Nevertheless, there was not so much durability in what came. I'm aware of the new 10 000 norm, that you have to have it to build a four-field road, but when we look at the analyses of traffic growth that have been made in the last 30 years, they've gone completely wrong, and the statistics that are made further have probably the same durability as what has been. But then I'll show you two analyses. One of 30 roadside accidents on E6 on the Jessheim-Treet route. ‘Ways with physical middle parts will eliminate the serious meeting accidents’, states the report of the Jessheim-Treet analysis group. Another analysis is from SINTEF in Trondheim, which has carried out an in-depth analysis of accidents at meetings and outbound traffic, which we often call the ‘unexplained’ accidents. The conclusion is that 75 pst. the accidents could have been avoided if the road had had centre parts or rails. Will the Council not then look a little at the ways in which we have major, serious accidents at the meeting and at the roadside – that is two-thirds of all accidents – and will she not take the costs of these accidents into account as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1410	There have been many rounds in this room about traffic safety, also related to the area we are talking about here, and I would also say today that I am still very concerned about traffic safety related to traffic here. It is quite right that on roads with a lot of traffic, middle parts could be an important contribution to reducing this type of serious accident. That's why we from the government choose to speed up the construction of four-field roads with middle parts elsewhere in the country and start projects with middle parts, because we are aware that they have an important significance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1415	Now, in the impact study of the State Road Administration on E6 from Gardermoen to Moelv, it is said that the development of it from two to four-field roads with middle parts is a socio-economical project. Does not the Council of State think that it will also be a profitable project socio-economic to do this through the Gudbrand valley?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1420	A little bit of the purpose that we have an office that is a professional expert is to get the department to do such calculations. I trust the calculations made in relation to the analyses of different parts of the road network. I also know that it's very important for the social economy that we reduce traffic accidents, because it costs society a lot that these happen. There has been an important factor in the analyses that have been carried out, and will be in those carried out in preparation for the national transport plan. It's important that we do something about the roads that are of great importance both for business and for transport in general, and that are very accident-related. It is quite right that there are areas of E6 between Oslo and Trondheim that are heavily damaged. Yesterday I was on tour in Hedmark and Uppland and was very well informed about the challenges you see locally in relation to the situation there. It's an important task for us all to help us get on with this, also on the E6 between Oslo and Trondheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1430	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘Trafikkmängda at Stavanger Airport, Sola, is once again increasing and is now far exceeding the terminal capacity at the aerodrome. Could the Council of States do any good for the aerodrome development plans, including the plans for progress in these developments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1439	As regards the Solar Development Plans, the Board of Directors of Avinor AS has recently decided that conversion should take place in order to remedy some of the conditions perceived as bottlenecks for passengers and terminal users. This is mainly about adjustments within existing building mass in order to increase capacity in the areas of destination hall abroad, departure hall abroad, check-in area, control area for traffic to countries outside the Schengen area and baggage sorting. In addition, some technical upgrades will be considered. In the 1990s, there was a steady increase in traffic across the Sun until 1998. Then the number of passengers was close to 3 million. As of 1999, total traffic has declined annually to below 2,5 million passengers in 2002. The whole lack of traffic occurs domestically. Foreign traffic has constantly increased. Avinor will therefore remedy the situation in which traffic growth occurs, i.e. in international traffic. It is stated that detailed planning is currently under way and that investment decisions are expected in the autumn of 2003. Avinor has discussed these actions with the SAS Group, which broadly supports the priorities. Furthermore, Avinor has met with the region's politicians and representatives of the Sola Terminalbygg AS. I would also like to underline the importance of the Government's proposal for significantly increased allocations for the purchase of airport services in the regional airport network in the current year, for which the Stortinget supported. This has strengthened Avinor’s financial capacity for necessary development also at the base aerodromes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1448	I thank you for your answer, which was not entirely negative. The extent of this worries me. So here we have five complete plans for the conversion of Sola Airport. Does it mean that a now create a sixth? Can the Council of State assure me that there is no patchwork to be started now? It is not that only domestic traffic has fallen. The decline has stopped, and foreign traffic is increasing strongly and is now on the rise in peak years 1998 and 1999. There's something to follow in an hour, because it's happening pretty fast here. What I'm asking now is: can the Council of State explain why to create a sixth plan, and can the Council of State assure me that if there is to be a sixth plan, he must build primarily on what has been done before, and it must be done in close dialogue with active forces in Rogaland who want this airport well – not the aerodrome in and of itself, but the region around?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1455	As I mentioned in my previous post, there has been a development in relation to the number of passengers, and an analysis of the need has been carried out all along. It is true that there have been several plans related to the solutions at the aerodrome. I would like to stress that close cooperation has been established with local forces about the airport to make sure that Avinor gets the recordings that they should have in this round. I would also like to remind you that we have a responsibility for the whole of a joint aviation policy in Norway. That's why we have to take into account that there are several places we need to take up a roof, and we need to take up a roof at the Sola airport. Of course, I get input from Avinor in terms of the analyses they make, and I trust the cooperation they have with both local forces and not least with airlines operating at the airport. There are very important insights into what solutions are needed and should be implemented on the Sun.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1462	I thank you again for your answer. It's probably not the experience of close cooperation in the Sun among the forces that are working for the development of the Sun Airport, just like what the Council of State says. They know they're sometimes quite rejected when they're making constructive recordings. So I hope she'll deal and make sure there's real cooperation where Avinor doesn't dictate what's reasonable to do, but they're entering into a clear dialogue. The other thing I would like to ask is whether the Council can assure me that one of the assessments does not think about the business economy of Avinor. In fact, fog lights at the Sun could prevent many connected days at the airport. There were just five days closed, and the ringing effects of the closure one day are much greater than the cost of investing in fog lights. It shows how inadequately pure business economic thinking is in this context, and there is once again business economy Randi Flesland, Avinor Director, has shown when she has been in Stavanger. If it were to be the rental, I was not as quiet as I would have liked to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1469	I would like to remind you of why the State chooses to spend as much money as we do on the purchase of airport services. This is because we need to ensure that we have a solid and good airport network in Norway. It gives Avinor economic space to do things we didn't do before. The transformation to AS, together with the fact that we're now spending more money on aviation, enables us to carry out the things that we've never been able to do before. We have now come closer to the Sun than we have been before, for example. thanks to the conversion to AS. It is also open to cooperation with local forces, which I have said I would like to welcome. With regard to the analyses currently carried out, the technical upgrades needed are assessed. Fog light is one of the things that should then naturally be included, and will be included and to be included. These assessments are made. As far as this is a business economic analysis, I would say that such analyses are also carried out, but they are seen in a socio-economic and holistic perspective. It's part of this government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1481	I allow myself to ask a question to the Minister for Transport: ‘The road is threatened by closure despite the fact that more people live along the track than ever before, and we risk replacing the track with a bus solution that would offer a worse offer to passengers. Despite the fact that no one wants such a development, the situation seems to be stuck. Will the Council of State do anything to help save the Kolsåsbanen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1490	It is the county councils that prioritise grants for the operation of local public transport, inter alia. free of funds from the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. For Kolsåsbanen, Oslo and Akershus, as I am familiar with, are in dialogue on current operational options. Therefore, I do not think it appropriate to intervene with local authorities in relation to operating on this particular section of the track. This kind of state-level detailed management of local populace is not in line with this government's attitude to local folklore. However, the government is now contributing more strongly from the state to improving the quality of local collective provision in the capital area than any previous government. This does not happen by providing detailed guidance to local authorities, but by participating in split layers, including: Oslo Municipality to upgrade the Oslo T-Bahn system for billions. This includes, inter alia: development of the T-banging, upgrading of railways and purchasing of new T-cars. Furthermore, the appropriations for local train operations in Oslo/Akershus this year have increased significantly to finance the deployment of new, modern local trains in Oslo/Akershus. The government has required the development of a new double track between Asker and Sandvika, which is allocated billions up to 2005. The state’s direct contribution to public transport in Oslo and Akershus has until now been focused primarily on infrastructure investment. I also propose from 2004 to introduce an incentive scheme where funds can be used freely also for the operation of public transport, if the metropolitan areas undertake to slow down the growth of transport needs and increase the share of collective travel at the expense of passenger car travel. In addition, I have taken the initiative to set up a regional coordinating body to coordinate measures for the development of public transport in the enlarged capital area. The establishment of such a body will help to improve the context of the operation of public transport in the enlarged metropolitan area. I aim to ensure that the new coordinating body is established at the turn of the year. It will be an important step to ensure a more comprehensive planning and disposal of the significant funds already used in the provision of collective services in the capital region.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1501	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I fully agree with the Council of State that when two county councils are in dialogue, which is now, the role of the Council of State is not to go in and be a judge, but as the Council of State also sketches, it is precisely to contribute to the proper functioning of regional coordination. My follow-up question to the Council of State will be – as the Council of State announces that the regional coordinating body will be in place on 1 January 2004, while the Colza Railway will probably need some assistance for coordination before that time – if the Council of State sees that it will have a role in contributing to regional coordination of the Colza Railway even before 1 January 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1510	We aim to ensure that the coordinating body enters into force from 1 January 2004. I would have liked to have seen that we could have had it in service earlier, but mainly for practical reasons, we have set ourselves the goal that it will come into force from 1 January 2004. As I said, it's not natural for me to intervene in local democracy that way now, because we don't have per. the current date of any institution to do so. Of course, I want us to have a good public transport solution in this area too, but – as I said – there is a dialogue going on, and I choose to wait for it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1517	I thank you again for your answer and note that the Council of State wants to await this dialogue. But can I also interpret the answer as saying that the Council of State will follow closely what is happening in this dialogue, as it has not been given the state contribution to regional coordination in place before the fate of the Kolsåsbanen is determined?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1522	Of course, I'm concerned about the development of the Colza Railway, so I'm going to follow it, while at the same time it's in the responsibility of the local authorities. It is important that we have a good public transport in and around the capital, and then the Kolsåsbanen is improperly part of it. Therefore, it is of great interest to me to follow up on how it develops.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1530	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘1. In January of this year parts of the operation and maintenance of roads were offered. Contracts run over a period of 4 years and may have a cost framework of 35-90 million. kr. In order to enable private companies to participate in this competition, a capital charge of 10 pst has been set. of the total contract sum. This capital requirement comes in addition to bank guarantees, which means that most small and medium-sized enterprises are excluded from participating in this competition. Will the Council of State reconsider this requirement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1539	Road-side operational and maintenance tasks will be put at a competitive disadvantage over a period of four years until 2006. In 2003, the Road Directorate will publish 24 contracts out of a total of 107 contracts. On average, the contract amount will be approximately 25 million. kr per. years, but the contracts have a large distribution in size, so that several contracts will be less than 10 million. kr per. years. After the end of the tendering period in 2003, the Directorate-General for Road Transport will carry out an evaluation of the process, including an evaluation of the size of the contracts and whether there is real competition for the contracts. Based on the results of the evaluation, it will be assessed whether the size of the contracts should be changed at the next call for functional contracts. Also issues of equity and bank guarantee would then be natural to look again in the light of the experience gained in 2003. I have for a long time had contact and dialogue with the Association of Machine Entrepreneurs, MEF, on this matter, and received useful input from them in relation to the wishes and needs of small businesses in connection with the competitive outsourcing. The Directorate-General for Roads has also opened up the possibility for SMEs to provide services through the community of work. In the case of a working community, the requirement for equity is somewhat reduced. The sum of the equity of the members of the working community shall be at least 10 pst. of the offer sum, each clearing member shall have an equity of at least 10 pst. of the average annual turnover of the contract. I assume that the Road Directorate is designing the functional contracts with the aim of achieving efficiency gains through real competition for the missions, and that this must be a very important part of reviewing the experience of the first year. I will actively monitor the development of the market, including real competition for the missions, and the possibility for both small, medium-sized and large entrepreneurs to participate. I am concerned that we in Norway will develop effective competition in this area and have invited the Association of Machine Entrepreneurs to further dialogue on these issues. I can also inform you that the tendering procedure for this year's contracts has now been completed. According to the Directorate of Roads, the expectations of more money for the outsourcing of operations and maintenance appear to be being met. The road service has estimated a cost saving of between 10 and 20 pst. However, these are preliminary assessments and it is too early to draw a final conclusion, but there is an interesting development.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1552	I want to thank you for your answer. I agree with what the Council of State says that competition will give more way to the money. I have also seen that the survey of supply received at the bidding round this year shows this. The point is that one could possibly get even more money if it had also been open to small and medium-sized enterprises. I hear the Council of State say that she is busy with competition and that these companies are going to participate in the bidding round. At the same time, I look at the supply that has come in, that they are dominated by the big ones — Most, Road Cover, Selmer, NCC — and that small and medium-sized enterprises are absent. Then my supplementary question to the Council of State: doesn't the Council see a capital requirement as high as 10 pst. does it mean that SMEs are excluded from this competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1561	First of all, I want to say that I have received useful input from MEF in this area. I record that I have even received input from members of the MEF who believe that the equity requirement may not be unnatural. So it's not 100 pst. agreement on that. I still want to follow up to see if the competition is real and whether it works. That was the purpose of doing this. That is why I am concerned that there should be competition that is also open to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. You have more possibilities. Contracts can either be awarded directly, or you can join a work community. I also record that many are involved as subcontractors to other major entrepreneurs. I am concerned that this possibility is still going to be there, because I think it is a very important contribution to this work in the road sector. That's why I'm concerned about this further. There is a balance between ensuring that we have the right size of bureaucracy, that it should not be too large, while at the same time getting enough players in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1568	I just want to repeat what I said instead. I find that the offers that have been received are from the big ones. The actual numbers show that it is mostly only the large ones that have provided. This suggests that one has not got the good competition that one could get, and would perhaps also give even more way for the money. Unfortunately, I have not received any good argument for why this capital requirement exists. If it is the security one wants to take care of, it would have to be enough that one had a bank guarantee. I also have to remind you that an equity can be used up on a job, that one has several jobs, and that it is the same capital requirement that is imposed everywhere. So a bank guarantee must be best if you're going to have security. I would like to ask the Council of State if it would not have been anything to consider sticking to just a bank guarantee for the individual assignment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1577	The most important thing in this context is that we get more money back. So we have to look at how we're going to do it. Are we on the right path, or are we not on the right path? The signals we've been given so far are that we're on the right track. It is important that we have room for both small, medium-sized and large players in the market. That's what I'm going to do. I think we're doing ourselves a bear service if we don't give this room also to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. It's important. The questions raised here related to equity and bank guarantee are issues that it would be natural to evaluate after the first phase, and see if there is any reason to change this or not. Now we're on our way. What we see from indications suggests that we are on the right track in relation to the goal. It will always have to be a balance of how big bureaucracy we need to deal with a lot of entrepreneurs in terms of having a fit number. But we must also have room for small and medium-sized players.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1584	Question 21 will be answered at the end of the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1590	I want to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘The Invalidity Home of Berea on Kongsvinger is struggling financially, and thus has a somewhat uncertain future. Does the Council of State see that she alone, possibly together with other departments, can contribute to the future of this important place of our war invalids, and thus ensure that those who need such a place after an effort by the country of origin can be there according to their wishes and needs?»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1599	The Foundation War Invalidity Home Bäreia is an independent foundation established by the War Invalidity Association and has for a number of years given the convalescent summit for war invalids and their partners. Residence for this group is covered by the budgets of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Social Affairs is also represented in the Board of the Foundation. As an independent foundation, the Board of Directors of Bæria has the formal responsibility to ensure that the operation of the home is adapted to the number of users. As war invalids fall away, home operations must be assessed in the light of it. The Ministry of Defence is not involved in the operation of the home and as such is not responsible for the home. As Minister of Defense, I still feel a moral responsibility to help our war invalids get an offer of recreation as long as they need it. The United Nations Federation of veterans has expressed the desire to take over Bæria for recreational stays for soldiers who have been in international service and their families. It will be positive if connected through comrade meetings and other events can contribute to the operation of Bæria. With current operating costs and a rapidly decreasing number of war pensioners, the activities of the United Nations Federation will hardly provide an adequate income base for Bærea. The Foundation for the Invalidity of War therefore needs to show creativity and action in order to use the possibilities of earnings available for the home. I am aware that measures have been taken to find good economic solutions, including opening up the Bæria to new user groups. The need for public budget allocations is intended to increase to approx. Twenty million. kr in 2008. The defence budget cannot be supported by Bæria in this order of magnitude. The increase granted in the current budget, in line with the Government's leadership, 6 million. D to the United Nations Federation of veterans. As far as I remember, the Progress Party, as the only party, proposed to cut the allocation to the voluntary defence organizations by five million. kr in the budget position of the autumn. If this were to be distributed proportionately among the organisations, it would mean a reduction of approximately. 600 000 kr to the United Nations Federation of veterans, and thus probably also a reduction to Bæria. What support will be given to the voluntary defence organisations — including the Federation of the Nations of the Veterans — from the Ministry of Defence next year will be clarified in the context of the next year’s budget proposal. It is then up to the United Nations Federation if they wish to use Bæria in connection with its activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1620	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was a summary – some of the history and some of the realities. It is clear that such a place as Bæria, which is so nice and has opportunities to provide recreation to those who have rendered a great service to their country of origin, both domestically and abroad, is needed – there is no doubt. When you know that there may be 50,000 German vets and nearly 60,000 who have been in international service, for example. in Korea, Congo, Lebanon, Sinai, Namibia, the Balkans, etc., it is clear that the need should be there. And the need is probably greater than the money that has been allocated should be said. I know there was a meeting at Kongsvinger yesterday on this matter. Maybe no money was promised there, but at least it has become a dialogue, so you can see brighter in the future. I hope that the Council of State can take part in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1629	That's exactly what the questioner says. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence was at Bäreia yesterday, and there is close and good dialogue between the Ministry of Defence and the stakeholders around Bäreia. Nevertheless, there is reason to stress that both the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health are the right address for health measures and recreation, while the Ministry of Defence – precisely because we think this is such an important group – has so far contributed to the operation of Bæria through the support associations established. Over the defence budget, the United Nations Federation of veterans has totaled 4.3 million. kr to activities related to Bæria for 2003. Of these, 1.7 million went. kr directly for operating aid, in addition they received SEK 1.7 million. kr for the operation of the organisation. This is a support of 6 million. kr – a support that just goes to the important group that the queryor is occupied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1636	I thank you once again for your answer. The amounts the council mentions are correct, but unfortunately the amount is not large enough. Bearia is struggling with a somewhat uncertain future because they lack some money. As far as the budget is concerned, the Progress Party has always been positive about granting money to non-profit-making teams and organisations, especially in the defence sector, so what the Council of State referred to, I'm going to check. At least the progress party shall be the party that wants and wants to contribute money to this. I leave the staff stick to the Council of State so that we can jointly – both the Advance Party, other parties, the Ministry of Defence and other departments – raise enough money for the further operation of Bæria, because the operation is important for those who have done a great service for their country, both at home and outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1645	I fully agree with the questioner that it is important to look here at the wide scope for obtaining income for Bæria. Here, different public budgets may be a source, but it is also important to get new user groups to Bærea, and that the Foundation assesses creative measures to raise income. Some of the recordings I have received are about the sale of parts of the property, sale with the acquisition clause after the war disability no longer needs the home, etc. But I expect these questions to come back to us in connection with the government budget of the autumn. And appropriations for the United Nations Federation of veterans are to be shared by us in adopting in November-December this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1653	I will ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: ‘A part of those who have participated in foreign operations have a history of psychological damage and experience that they are largely left to themselves. They feel that they are being subjected to very unfair treatment by society, for example, by: no compensation is awarded as a result of the damage suffered in the course of their duties. The Council of State has an overview of the number of people who are currently unemployed due to their lack of work. mental problems after foreign service, and what will the Government do to improve their situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1662	I'm very pleased with this question, because it's an important issue. The defence has put in place a number of measures to prevent mental damage to personnel involved in international service. Before departure, staff are thoroughly tested physically and mentally, and only those who are found fit are offered international service. During the course of the service, personnel are continuously offered medical services, including support from stress response teams. After completion of the service, staff undergo a thorough medical assessment and are informed of all available support services. Where necessary, personnel shall be referred to the civil health service. There are no exact figures on the number of unemployed due to mental health problems after international service. However, the defence has carried out extensive investigations that give us some indication of the extent of the problem. For the period 1990–2001, data from the Rikstrøgdeverket have been used in a major survey on soldier health. The study is pleased to show that fewer people were sick because of mental health problems among staff who had participated in international service than was the case for a comparable control group who had not participated in international service. The number of disabled persons was less than half — in the group that had participated in international service — compared to findings in the control group. This suggests that the measures taken by the Defense to ensure the mental health of the soldiers work well. It is the civil health service, and not the defence, that has the statutory responsibility to provide health services to former military personnel. However, the defence is dedicated to providing personnel who have been in international service with the necessary follow-up. That is why today in the Ministry of Defence we are working on a proposal for a regulation on compensation for mental sensitivities caused by the operation of international peace operations. The draft will be sent to the hearing during this month. The purpose is precisely what the queryer is addressing, to provide financial compensation to people who have suffered mental illness and who are not eligible for compensation on another basis. The health of the defence shall also assess during the year an extended offer of mental health protection, including: in the case of a closer and longer-term follow-up after termination of service. The focus is on rapid treatment after events to avoid chronic plagues. In addition, the health of the defence is in the process of planning a medical centre at Ullevål University Hospital. The Centre shall include, inter alia: providing experience data from international operations to ensure optimal selection, guidance and any treatment of personnel. The aim is to provide the most integrated solution to the civil health system. Just in a situation where the Defense has a high international commitment to peacemaking work, the work that is now under way in the Ministry of Defence is important, and I am therefore glad that I was given the opportunity to say that something is happening in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1679	The last thing is incredibly important, that one at the same time, while one sends people abroad, really follows up at home. So it's incredibly important that both the defense and the state council recognize the responsibility they have towards them, so that the great injustice that was done against the war ropes is not re-established. In order to take some of the government's answers, I think one has to do even more research than the Rikstrøgdeverket has done. Because there are just a lot of these -- at least those I've been talking to -- that the entrance to be recognised in the Reichstrygdewerk is very narrow. That's why I think you need a much larger research base. Then, too, the problem is that the stress assessment team per. Today is not a good enough follow-up. But the main question is: does the Council of State recognize that the Ministry of Defence, and the Council of State, have a responsibility for these even when they come out into civil life, a good deal out into civil life?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1686	Of course, both myself and the Ministry of Defence acknowledge that when we send personnel to international services, we have both a moral and a formal obligation to ensure that there is a minimum burden on them for the rest of our lives. They do an incredibly important job on behalf of the country, and they have been sent out with a clear political mandate in their backs. At the same time, it is important to find solutions where the Ministry of Defence and other departments are able to provide them with an optimal offer when they return home. It's e.g. not desirable with a separate health offer alongside the ordinary health service. That's also why we've been in dialogue with Ullevål Hospital on a follow-up cooperation, working together to determine what needs there are, and working together on experience data. I'm the first to admit that we need experience data from those who've been out, and measures are in progress to bring the people who've been out for good.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1691	I thank you for your answer. I take that answer for a yes – that yes, we will take a greater responsibility than what we are doing today – from the Council of State. I would like the Council of State to confirm that. So I would like her to elaborate on the regulations that it is now working on to provide financial help, because that's also part of the problem, that the case is very large. Dignity falls quickly when you've been a soldier and then comes home to very big economic problems, as many of them have. I have received a message about a scheme that I would like the Council of State to comment on, namely that the defence comes in with an economic start-up package before insurance schemes have been put in place – because we know that this will take a very long time. I also want to challenge the Council of State that she is setting up a group that can look at this from a multidisciplinary point of view, and that the public can have the opportunity to discuss this problem later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1702	The President understands that the 1 minute Council of State does not have the answer to all these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1705	I'll do my best. First, it is right that compensation and insurance schemes we have today are based on the principle of full compensation, i.e. that the victim should be placed in the same economic situation as he would be in without the damage. That's the principle. But then the questioner points to something important, namely the problem, for example. in the period after returning home, before the claim is paid – for the payment may take time. In addition, the questioner has pointed to the problem for people who may have mental sensitivities and who do not meet normal substitution criteria. This last group we mean to catch up with the new regulations that are being consulted. In terms of practical measures that can relieve the individual while waiting for compensation – whether he is in line with the social security system or in other types of queues in other types of public services – I am willing to look at the ways in which the defence here can help, either by seeking to proceed with the proceedings or by other means to minimise the impact on the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1716	So we go back to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1723	This question, from the representative of Øyvind Vaksdal to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1726	I want to ask you the following questions: ‘According to KraftNytt 7. May this year, the Norwegian and Swedish warehouse fillings were 18.7 TWh less than normal in week 19. Although a slight improvement has been seen in recent weeks, the situation is anything but satisfactory. Without large amounts of rainfall in the coming months, one will be able to experience a winter with even greater problems than the ones we had last winter, with an explosive development in the electricity price and the risk of disconnection and rationalization. What measures will the Government take to control the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1735	Vulnerability of weather variations is a fundamental condition of Norwegian power supply. After many years of heavy rainfall and hydropower production, we were reminded in winter of the consequences of a period of low rainfall for a nation that is highly dependent on hydropower. The situation in winter was long worrying. However, developments beyond spring — with relatively mild weather, increased confidence and high imports — have significantly improved the situation. The drop in the number of magazines was reduced, and Norwegian production in March and April became the lowest recorded since 1980. The snow smelting is now in progress, and the magazine filling is increasing. The prices of the Nordic power exchange have also stabilised in relation to winter. The fact that power prices are still higher than usual at this time of the year reflects the fact that there is still scarcer availability of water in the power plants than normal. At the entrance to week 18, the magazine filling was 19.2 pst., 18 percentage points lower than the average level for this week. So the starting point for the season we're going into is weaker than in previous years. However, future developments in magazine filling will depend on weather conditions for the rest of the spring, summer and autumn. However, based on experience in winter, it is important to start work rapidly on safer power supplies. The government has already undertaken to assess measures that may reduce vulnerability to similar situations. An important objective is to have an energy supply that ensures that there is enough energy in the market at acceptable prices – for both households, industry and government. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to consider both short-term measures to address an emerging dry-year situation and longer-term measures to reduce the basic vulnerability of dry-years in power supplies. Extensive measures across a broad range will be needed to improve Norwegian security of supply. In addition to strengthening the transmission capacity in order to avoid unnecessary bottlenecks, both domestically and abroad, I will, on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, bring forward key elements which the Government prioritises: 1st@item: inlistbox The availability of different new renewable energy sources offers many opportunities to convert energy production and consumption. The government will give high priority to the investment in this area.2. We need to save energy. Among other things, new technologies will give us improved opportunities to use energy in a more sensible way than before. Work on energy saving is a main field of action for Enova.3. We need to make the best possible use of the hydropower we've already built up. It is therefore important to facilitate the modernisation and upgrading of our hydropower plants.4. We need to make reasonable use of our natural gas resources, and the Government will now follow up the gas notification in accordance with the Storting decision. The government will draw up the policy for a secure and environmentally friendly energy supply in a key communication on security of supply, which will be submitted before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1763	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The main cause of the problems we had in the last winter was, of course, the policy-driven offer that was in the market, since in recent years there has been an active political obstacle to the development of power in Norway. The result of this we in the Progress Party have warned against for many years – unfortunately not to be heard. The measures — or rather, lack of action — mentioned here by the Council of State will in no way save us through a similar winter if we are to have an equally low-precipitated harvest. What does it take for the Government to understand the seriousness of the situation, to throw away the paralysis of action, and to do something active?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1772	What makes us very vulnerable in winter is that 90 pst. electricity in Norway comes from hydropower. When it's dry, we'll actually have a challenge – regardless of whether we have more hydropower. The government is now working on this issue, and the Energy and Environment Committee is dealing with a matter related to increased availability of hydropower. We are trailers of an upgrade of the hydropower plants that are already at their disposal. If you want to become less vulnerable to dry-years and get new power into the Nordic power market, you need to invest more in renewable energy. Here you have a goal of 4 TWh from the water-borne heat and 3 TWh from the wind. In addition, Stortinget has opened the way for the construction of three conventional gas power stations. Consent has been granted, and it is up to those who have been granted a concession to assess on an ongoing basis whether it is cost-effective in today's power market to initiate these projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1779	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Nor in the long term will the situation improve through the government’s energy policy — or rather a lack of energy policy. The government’s training of gas-based power generation is an example of this. Another example is the Government's attitude towards hydropower generation, which we saw when the Government said no to 0,5 TWh – clean and new hydropower – from the Saudafjelles just before Easter. Is it not soon that the government sees the light – literally – and makes sure that the Norwegian people and the Norwegian industry get enough power at reasonable prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1788	I find it difficult to recognize myself in the picture that the representative, Mr. Waksdal, is now drawing. In fact, I thought we agreed that if you put all the eggs in one basket – which is hydropower – you would not be less vulnerable to a dry year situation. Nevertheless, the government has promoted a case for the Storting now about Sauda. An upgrade of the existing installations has also been announced. In addition, I mentioned 7 TWh related to renewable energy and the investment we have on Enova. That the government is supposed to be the action lamb relative to the use of gas, I can't believe. Three conventional gas power plants have been granted a concession. You can put the spade in the ground tomorrow. But I believe that this should happen without the use of State structural measures or Structural Funds. It must be possible to implement it simply because it is economically and economically viable in the market and not through State subsidies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1795	We're going to go to question 24.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1802	«According to Danish Environment Minister Hans Chr. Schmidt and Finance Minister Thor Pedersen get Danish taxpayers the most environment for the money by investing in climate action abroad rather than in Denmark. The Danish Government is therefore proposing to meet the Kyoto requirements, among others. by purchasing unused CO2 allowances abroad and by investing in non-resident environmental projects. The same assumptions apply to Norway to a large extent. What analyses of food-benefit effects have the Council of State carried out for the Norwegian Government’s climate action?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1809	Cost-effectiveness is a key consideration of climate policy, as in other environmental policies. It is important to choose solutions that give the greatest environmental benefit in terms of costs. The Government therefore places great emphasis on national and international trading of allowances as an instrument. Quota trading will contribute to ensuring cost-effectiveness in climate policy, because businesses themselves will be able to determine the emission reduction measures to be implemented when they are to be implemented and the extent to which they will buy or sell allowances. It would be in the enterprise's own interest to put in place the most reasonable measures first and reduce emissions from their own activities if they have measures that are cheaper than the expected quota price. Norway has committed itself to an average annual greenhouse gas emissions over the period 2008 to 2012 of no more than 1 pst. higher than in 1990. Last year, greenhouse gas emissions in Norway went down by 2.5 pst, so now we are 5 pst. above the level laid down in the Kyoto Protocol. Norway has worked in the climate negotiations to ensure that emission limitations can be implemented in a flexible manner, while at the same time ensuring that environmental credibility is not impaired. Norway has largely benefited from this in the negotiations. The Kyoto Protocol opens up the use of flexible mechanisms: international quota trading, the green development mechanism and joint implementation between developed countries. At the same time, the Kyoto Protocol states that the use of the mechanisms should be additional to the use of national instruments. This is also the basis of the Danish climate strategy – which I have studied thoroughly – which states that Denmark intends to live up to its international commitments and that it will continue to be committed to national instruments in addition to the use of the mechanisms. The Government proposes that Norway comply with its emission obligations through national measures, supplemented by an active use of the flexibility mechanisms under the Kyoto Protocol. Through its agreement to the main features of the Climate Communication and the Additional Communication, as well as the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol, the Storting has agreed to this. This flexibility is very important. I agree with the representative, although we disagree on the ratification of the Kyoto Agreement and an international climate regime. Both estimates for the Norwegian economy and estimates for the OECD region as a whole show that the cost of implementing the Kyoto Protocol is much higher if flexible mechanisms are not used. By providing Norwegian enterprises with the opportunity to participate in international trading of allowances, a large proportion of them will be able to rely on the market to determine whether it is most profitable to engage in actions at home or abroad. The socio-economic costs of action against greenhouse gas emissions are well documented in different climate notifications from changing governments. I would also like to highlight the analysis of action costs incurred by the industry itself and presented in the White Paper on greenhouse gas emissions from the Norwegian land-based process industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1824	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This is a very important question. I'm going to let the climate lie down now, but the political, and especially with regard to the danger of increased unemployment, I'm going to come up with, because at an energy conference that's been held earlier this week, it turned out that 90 pst. investments that will be made in the process industry will be made in countries that have not ratified the Kyoto Agreement. Then you face a huge challenge. We state councils ensure that Norwegian environmental requirements for businesses – and climate action – do not become more stringent than those in the countries with which we compete, so that we do not lose some industrial jobs to countries that have not ratified the Kyoto Agreement and that have much lower environmental requirements in other areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1833	I agree with the representative that this is a very important issue. In connection with last summer's floods in Europe, we saw that not taking the climate challenges seriously can lead to very high economic costs. This was an illustration of the consequences of failing to address the climate challenges. In the case of the Norwegian process industry, the situation is such that the industry today does not pay an electricity tax — it is exempt from it. It is also exempt from CO2 tax. The process industry in Norway accounts for 30 pst. the greenhouse gas emissions, while in the EU it accounts for 5 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions. I now have a good dialogue with the process industry in relation to what it can deliver from Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions in the future. Of course, we will also implement national measures. But, as I said, we also need to have an opening for the use of flexible mechanisms. Where these greenhouse gas reductions come from is not crucial. The fact that they happen is important for the global climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1840	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Linking a flood in Europe to greenhouse gas emissions is, of course, largely just politicians who dare to take the chance. At least there are no serious climate scientists who have connected it directly. I am glad that the Council of State has a good dialogue with the PIL, and so do the political parties in this House. I fully agree that we must be allowed to use the flexible mechanisms in full and where they have the most effect. The Danish government will have a climate review of how much CO2 reduction the Danish climate policy has actually given and how much it has cost in the 1990s. Will the Norwegian government also make the food-benefit effect visible at home to industry and individual companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1849	As I said in my first response to the representative Korsberg, the socio-economic costs of climate action are well documented in the two climate announcements from changing governments. There are also two major annexes in the two communications that review the cost of action and the socio-economic aspects. As for last summer's floods in Europe, I said it was an illustration of what could happen if we didn't do anything about the climate challenges. I've never said – and there's actually no evidence – that these floods were due to climate change, but that's the kind of weather you want to see more of – and much more of – if you don't do a real job here. However, we agree that it should not be produced in such a way that buying allowances or investing in developing countries in relation to greenhouse gas reductions should be seen as worse measures than others. The situation is that it is more expensive to implement such measures in Norway than in these other countries, but it is also important for us to show that we are going ahead here in order to get others to participate, so that negative developments can be prevented.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1869	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1877	My question to the Minister for the Environment is as follows: ‘On 11 April the Minister for the Environment approved the establishment of a golf course in one of the country’s best food grain areas, at Atlungstad in the municipality of Stange. It is apparent from the dossiers that the area of the plan is part of a large coherent agricultural area which is very well suited for growing food grain and which represents some of the most nutritious soils in the country. Why did the Council of State choose to ignore the clear recommendation of the agricultural authorities to reject the reallocation of these areas?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1886	In land policy, it is necessary to assess sectoral interests against what provides the best solution based on a broad societal assessment. Municipalities have an important and difficult task in order to achieve the sustainable development of the community through the work of local authorities, which takes account of both ecological, economic and social considerations. I welcome the fact that the municipality has been able to conduct an intercommunal investigation into the alternative location of the golf course in the Hamar region. The opinions of the agricultural authorities show that the establishment of a golf course in Atlungstad must be balanced against soil protection considerations. At the same time, I agree with the municipality's assessment that in the Hamar region it is difficult to find track alternatives that meet both the requirements of a good golf course location and that do not conflict with other land use interests. In this case, I have placed the decisive emphasis on the assessments made by the local government, i.e. the local government, and that the county council of Hedmark according to an overall assessment has not opposed the establishment of the golf course at Atlungstad. I have also assumed that the establishment of a high-quality golf resort will have positive ring-effects and become a catalyst for housing, economic development, recreation and tourism in the Hamar region. Therefore, after an overall assessment, I found that there was a basis for approving the area of the golf course at Atlungstad. I assume that the agricultural authorities will be involved in the regulatory planning process in order to ensure detailed solutions that take into account that the areas can be returned to agriculture in the event that the wave activity would cease. I will also add the following: On the same day that I decided the case at Atlungstad, I decided two other golf courses. The other golf course case was in Aurskog-Høland municipality, Finstadbru. This golf course was approved. The third golf course case, in the municipality of Granavolden, I said no. We need to be aware that golf is becoming a sport for everyone in Norway. The Norwegian Gulf Federation has passed 100,000 in membership, and more than 10,000 new ones start playing golf every year. The establishment of good golf facilities has a positive impact on public health. Golf courses are sport and recreation facilities for modern outdoors. Although the golf courses are located on cultivated land, they will capture only a very small proportion of the land area on a land-based basis. You have to be aware of that, too. But the issues I get to assess, I consider concretely on the basis of the different information that comes on my table, and there must be an overall assessment, how obviously also the sectoral authorities and the agricultural authorities will be given a great deal of weight.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1907	After what the Council of State now says, I feel the need to stress that I am very positive about golf. I think it's a great kind of sport, and there are many, in all ages, who can enjoy it. I also understand that there are a lot of farmers who choose to spend the land on golf courses, because the industry's earnings are so bad. But my concern is not to take the golf, it's not to take the farmers that lay out the land for golf courses. My concern is that it must be possible to add golf courses to areas that do not represent the very best food soil. In the case of Atlungstad, there is no doubt that the Minister for the Environment has chosen to break his own guidelines for land planning and golf courses – where it is clear that soil suitable for food grain production is to be protected. My further question is: does the Atlungstad case mean that soil protection policy has been changed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1920	I explained that we decided three things the same day – one golf course got no, and two got yes – based on a concrete assessment of the situation. With regard to the golf course at Atlungstad, there was no doubt an overall political environment throughout Hedmark that was strong supporters of this golf course. You didn't have a lot of good alternatives in the Hamar region. I think it is very strong when Stange Municipality says in a convincing and good way that they need this in relation to local value creation and to keep tourists. There is also a need for development of this inland region, which has been a little bit behind, and I came to, after an overall assessment, that I could not say no to this. It is also necessary to be aware that a golf course usually covers between 500 and 1000 deches, but that there is a small proportion of this which, in the future, should not be changed, can be returned to food grain production.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1927	Now there's enough doubt about whether it's the case that there were no good alternatives in reasonably close proximity to Hamar. You don't agree with that. Let me also follow up by saying that when the Council of State has now given approval to the golf course at Atlungstad, I would think that this will lead to some other builders thinking again – it has been thought that soil protection interests would weigh very heavily in these processes. But now I think some people will think about it, because you see that this, at least in Atlungstad, has not meant enough. Then my question becomes: can the Council of State guarantee that the case of Atlungstad, that is, building a golf course on one of the very best food fields we have, is to consider a one-off case, and that this case will not create a precedent?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1936	First I have to say I'm positive that Haga's representative is also positive to golf. First, if you want to build new golf facilities, you actually have to have the area – and then you can have a continuous discussion about what area is at your disposal. I'm just confirming that golf has come to stay. I have also received documentation on the table saying that a full 18-hole golf course usually occupies 500-1000 decks. Of these, the playing area is usually 250 dekars. It is mainly the green and the sand bunkers that cause heavy interference in the soil. In total, these areas constitute 20 deches. Thus, for a golf course site of 500 to 1000 dekars, heavy soil interventions of only 20 dekars will have to be taken into account, where return to agriculture is expensive. I think it's worth taking into account the assessments that are being made, i.e. that out of 1,000 deaks, there are 20 deaks that cannot be returned to the food grain area if you were to make other assessments later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1945	We go back to question 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1951	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The municipality of Stjørdal has a registered housing need for lone, lone dependants and young children’s families and has cooperated with the housing team to build 12 apartments with sober standard at a reasonable price. Of 18 applicants, the housing team is left with only 3 contacts. The remaining applicants have to say no because they do not get a loan from either the House Bank, because they do not. changed rules, or loans in the private market. What will the Council of State do to help these groups to obtain housing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1960	The matter raised here by the representative Signe Øye concerns the planned project Arnstadåsen Boretslag at Skatval in Stjørdal. The builder and borrower on behalf of the law-enforcement team is Trondheim and Omgn residential construction team – TOBB. The team has applied to the regional branch of the House Bank in Trondheim for a loan for the entry, and the House Bank has no objections to granting the requested loan amount, which equals 47 pst. of the total costs of approx. NOK 16 000 per year. m2. A problem here may be that deposits will be relatively high, but the House Bank can provide significantly higher loan measurement — up to 80 pst. – and, in exceptional cases, even more so, so that the requirement of equity can be lowered if the TOBB so wishes. Alternatively, the municipality may grant the new Start-up loan. The problem, therefore, is not, as the representative of Øyes asks, that the applicants concerned do not receive a loan from the House Bank. The problem is that TOBB has not been able to sell a sufficient number of apartments to start, and one of the reasons for this is that several of the applicants concerned did not have a financial basis for serving interest expenses, etc. TOBB is not paid out the mortgage until the apartments are sold, nor does it obtain an insurance guarantee. The TOBB cannot start construction. The representative Eye asks what the Council of State will do to help these groups to obtain housing. As you know, this year the Government has established a new loan scheme – Start-up loans – which municipalities can provide to groups of low incomes and low equity. Usually these loans are used for the purchase of more reasonable, used dwellings, and this could provide a good solution both in residential and financial terms. In special cases where the household belongs to disadvantaged groups, such as the homeless, refugees and others, the municipality will be able to grant housing grants, which are, in other words, a form of subsidy, in order for the boutes to come down to such a level as they can. This may be the priority of grant funds to which the representative Eye aims when mentioning ‘amended rules’. But there's something different than the rules for loans in the House Bank. That priority therefore means that for individual groups applying for it if the municipality of Stjørdal within the housing grant they provide, it is considered that this is the main group to provide support for – it will be possible to receive that kind of support.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1971	I thank the Council of State for the answer. But there was really no solution for those who don't have equity, don't get loans or don't get grants to buy these dwellings. It is clear that the municipality of Stjørdal has a certain size of housing allowances, but the problem must be that the housing allowance is so low – and it has been indicated by the government – that this should only be shared by the homeless, immigrants or the very poorest. That's why there's a group that falls between two chairs here. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: Does the Council of State think that it is Stjørdal's municipality that prioritises error, is the pot too small, or what makes it impossible for us to help these?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1980	As my answer clears, I believe Signe Eye today asks a question that is not correct, which is not an indication of what is actually the situation. The main starting point is that if TOBB had chosen to use full house finance here, it would not have been 47 pst, but up to 80 pst. loan measurement. It would have made the prop of those who were going to live there, i.e. what they had to finance under other borrowing arrangements would have been significantly less. Then it would only have been based on TOBB's own assessments whether those who came could serve these loans, and whether they could pay their rent. The house bank has the possibility to grant more loans in exceptional cases. Therefore, it is not the case that there is initially a need to create new schemes. One alternative to this is that the 9 million. kr in the loan framework for Start-up loans, which should go to this group – those that are slightly above the weakest, and which will thus support the municipality of Stjørdal – could be used to pay and finance housing. Self-financing requirements would be lower in this area. That's why we have a public order. I think first of all that you have to look at how the project is designed and designed, to find the source that people do not demand this project or do not want to live in these apartments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e1989	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is such that there is a defined need for dwellings for these groups. There is no reason to believe that they do not want this, or that it is not a documented need – as the Council of State is now trying to refute. What can Stjørdal municipality do? They could have helped to increase the number of non-commercial rental dwellings. But also here, the Council of State has tightened up so that it is not possible for this group to receive loans or grants under this scheme. The only thing left is that the social aid budget needs to be increased because you have to go into the private market. We know that if fewer dwellings are built, the rents will also increase. Does the Council of State think that this is the solution – to build fewer dwellings and thus increase rent for this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e2000	I believe that the representative Signe Eye has found a bad example of highlighting the Workers' Party's general policy in this area through this question-time issue. The starting point is that the loan arrangements could have been designed and used significantly better than what has been done so far in relation to this project. These are loan schemes that do not depend on the income of a person, there are loan schemes that could have resulted in a lower proportion of the balance and the need for additional funding, and the costs would have been lower for the individual. So you could have used a combination of starting loans for the individual who applied for or could have designed the project with a larger share of mortgage loans. The bank's office has not said no to any loan requests in this connection. As for the question of how to distribute the housing allowance, we have a priority for this grant. In the case of the disadvantaged group, funds are allocated to the municipal housing social action programme. If the social budgets of the municipalities are seriously disadvantaged, the municipalities have instruments. Half of the funds we spend on housing grants today go to the municipal housing social action programme. It is the municipalities that make a priority – they assess whether this is the group that needs it the most, or whether there are other groups that need it more.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e2009	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-14.ana.ud917e2020	There is no record.
