ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e48	Honourable co-representatives! Former PAC and State Council Håkon Kyllingmark resigned on 11 August of this year, 88 years old. Håkon Kyllingmark was born in Honningsvåg on 19 January 1915. In addition to the mid-secondary school exam in 1931 and the commercial school exam in 1935, he conducted the Army's artillery command school in 1933-1934 and in 1937 the Army's Air Force Scout School. Until the fall of 1939, Chickenland combined its civil duties as a merchant and agent with periodical service as a compulsory officer. After the outbreak of World War II, he served at the Hålogaland Air Department, first as a neutral guard in Finnmark and then in active war participation, until the battles in North Norway ended in June 1940. From the turn of the year 1940/41, Kyllingmark was already engaged in the construction of an organized resistance movement in North Norway. In 1943 he had to flee to Sweden and was then part of the organization and management of the military home forces in the North and Troms. He played an active role in May 1945 to ensure the most orderly transition from occupation to peace. After his release, he resumed his agency business in Svolvær, while from 1947 to 1953 he was head of the Heimevertet district. Kyllingmark's political career began in 1945, when he was elected as a member of the Svolvær City Council on a bourgeois common list. He quickly entered the Right and quickly obtained a number of trusts in the Young Right, in the Svolvær Right and in the Northland Right. At the 1953 election, Håkon Kyllingmark was elected to Stortinget from the Nordic states, which was the beginning of a career in big business and government that lasted until the 1981 election when he withdrew from active politics. The name of Håkon Kyllingmark is primarily linked to the transport policy. With the exception of a few years in the Maritime and Fisheries Committee, he was a member of the Transport Committee at Stortinget throughout his time. Nevertheless, it may have been, as Minister of Transport in the government, Away from 1965 to 1971, that Håkon Kyllingmark was seriously recognized as a highly active transport politician. He was most well known for the development of the short-haul network, which was going to revolutionize Norwegian aviation. But also telecommunications and road development lay close to his heart. In these areas, too, there was rapid growth and development in these years. Already in 1958, Håkon Kyllingmark was elected 2nd Vice President in Right, a position he held until 1970. Then he was a member of the Right Central Government for many years. In 1958 he was also elected a member of the Right Group Board. From 1973 to 1981 he was Vice President of the Storing Group. As one of Right's most central politicians, it was not surprising that John Lyng appointed Kyllingmark as one of Right's government councils in 1963, nor was it surprising that with his war experience and military background, Kyllingmark was given responsibility for the Ministry of Defence. Håkon Kyllingmark was engaged in a number of fields, and it is impossible to list up his many trusts in the trade, sports and the Red Cross. It is also not possible to give a comprehensive overview of his many public duties, but it should be mentioned that for a number of years he was Chairman of the Municipal Bank, that he was a member of the Norwegian Bank and an alternate of the Nobel Committee, and that for a number of years he had a central position in the Norwegian airline and in SAS. Håkon Kyllingmark was highly decorated for his war effort. He had, among other things, The St. Olav Medal with oak twice, the Delta Medal with rosette, as well as British, French and American distinctions. In 1985 he was appointed Commander of the Order of Social Action of St. Olav. Håkon Kyllingmark belonged to a generation where the term «For King and Fatherland» was a deep reality and a clear commitment to action. Chicken fields lived up to this commitment both in war and in peace. He was a real socialist, not just for his own part of the country, but for all of Norway. In Stortinget, Kyllingmark is also remembered as a lukewarm and wise conversation partner and as a solid team player across the party boundaries. Former Petter Thomassen Major and Councillor has passed away, only 62 years old. Petter Thomassen was born on 17 April 1941 in Salangen, Troms. In the first few years, the small family farm was a home for German soldiers, while the dirt was used as a camp for Russian prisoners of war. Petter Thomassen has himself given a vivid account of this time in the award-winning 1986 book 'Children in War'. After graduation artium in 1960 he studied at the School of Business in Copenhagen and became a civil economist in 1963. After the studies he engaged in the emerging data industry and from 1965 was disponsible in A/S Nordic data in Bodø, an enterprise he built from the ground up. In 1967, Petter Thomassen was elected a member of Bodø City Council, which he held until 1975. He also engaged in county politics, was a member of the county council in Northern Ireland from 1971 to 1979. He was a member of the County Committee and was also a member of the County Council from 1976 to 1977. After being an alternate in the period 1969-1973, Petter Thomassen was elected as a deposit representative from Nordland at the 1977 elections. His great career was to extend until the autumn of 1997, only interrupted by the periods of Minister of Industry of the Willoch Government in 1985–86, and as Minister of Industry of the Syse Government in 1989–1990. Over his 20 years at Stortinget, Thomassen had a varied portfolio of committee positions. He started in the Municipal and Environmental Protection Committee and then joined the Financial Committee, where he was also chairman for two years. After the industrial ministerial period, he had a brief interplay on the Consumer and Administrative Committee and then returned to the Financial Committee. After the resignation of the Syse government, Petter Thomassen became a member of the Church and Education Committee. Between 1993 and 1997, he was the first head of the newly established Control and Constitutional Committee and made a great effort to mark the new committee as the central control body of the Grand Duchy. The guidelines and procedures adopted under Thomassen's management of the Committee have become the guide for further work up to today. Petter Thomassen held a number of positions in the Right. He was, among other things, the head of the Right District Policy Selection, the Right Data Policy Selection and the Right Traffic Selection. He was the second Vice-Chairman of the party from 1988 to 1990 and for several years a member of the Right Group Board. In the years 1981-1985 he was Vice President of the Storing Group. He was also deeply involved in business, and the list of his many positions in the Nordic business world is impressively long. In addition, he was an industrious writer and wrote a wide range of books, also here with an impressive variety of subject choices. In addition to the already mentioned book on child years in war, books from the trade in goods from a regional policy perspective span among others. freedom of expression, computer development and opportunities for the aquaculture industry up to the last book, a government case, from 1991. Petter Thomassen became a prominent national politician, but he never forgot where he came from. North Norway was always close to his heart, and he was always living engaged in all matters that had to do with the development of the northernmost part of the country. It is tempting to mention his work to establish the civil economy education in Bodø as an example of the type of project that was perceived as utopian before Petter Thomassen seized them. Petter Thomassen had clear opinions about most, and he seldom failed to express them. He could have a rough way to be and was sometimes enough perceived as sharp in the edge. But at the same time, he greatly appreciated people who took again, and always showed great generosity to co-representatives and employees both inside and outside their own party. Kåre Willoch said in his speech in the funeral that the mixture of constructive boldness and loyalty was Petter Thomassen's strongest side. There's a characteristic that's easy to agree with. We remember Petter Thomassen and Håkon Kyllingmark for their work in the Storting and brighten peace over their memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e100	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the state of Buskerud: John-Ragnar Aarset For the state of Hedmark: Johnny Hult For Uppland County: Tove Lehre For Vestfold County: Vidar Andersen The representative, Karin S. Woldseth, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e121	I would like to propose, on behalf of the representatives of the elderly Ulf Erik Knudsen, Arne Sortevik and myself, the introduction of the right of students to free schooling in high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e126	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e140	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 358]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e156	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e163	It is a contented, unanimous and unanimous committee that is behind the setting. St. pp. No 85 for 2003-2004 has been the subject of a previous decision in the Stortinget, where the Government has been empowered to take the necessary measures to assist the pioneers with advice and assistance in economic conditions pending the Government’s proposal for the Storting on the basis of NOU 2003:5 The Pioneer Divers in the North Sea. That matter is now before the committee, so the big debate is not taking place today. But there is a good reason to say that what has happened since the case appeared in 1999, and until today, is very good – all parties are behind the necessary measures that need to be taken to ensure that the pioneer divers are given the honor and compensation as a result of the job that has been done. I will not go any closer to St.meld. No 47 for 2002–2003. I just want to be brief enough to show that the National Research Ethics Committee for Medicine, NEM, has been working on test dives in the North Sea as a matter for a long time, and that a seminar on diving and research will be held as early as February. In that context, I would also like to refer to a program at the NRK not long ago, where you really got insight into the damage these divers have done as a result of the dives, and that pressure they really felt to get these dives completed. I also point out that Knut Ruyter, who is the secretary of the NEM, said the following: ‘On the basis of the documentation submitted to the research ethics committees at the time, and what we now know about the damage caused by diving, it can then be said that your numbers 2 and 3 would not have been implemented.’ With this I may have foreshadowed some of the things that are involved in the treatment of St.meld. No 47. What this matter concerns is that we quickly got on the track to remedy the situation of these pioneer divers at an early stage, and then we get to hope that when you treat St.meld. No 47 also put in place what these pioneers deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e179	This case concerns an immediate allocation of 10 million. kr to help the pioneers, who have made a phenomenal effort for our value creation, in an acute and precarious economic situation. I want to commend the Council of State for the action that the Council of State has shown in this matter by lifting this out of a treatment. I want to wait with the political treatment to St.meld. No 47 will be treated in Stortinget. I just want to say that it is very important for the pioneer divers that we get this case to be dealt with in Stortinget, and a unanimous committee is pleased to note it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e184	We are pleased that the Storting will now decide to grant this money to the divers – the immediate measure that will allow you to pay up to NOK 200,000 to each pioneer diver. We think that's very good. I do not want to join in exactly what Peter Skovholt Gitmark from the Right just said in relation to the treatment of the whole matter. Now we're going to have a proper and thorough review of the processing of the message. I can show that the Stortinget will have hearings on Monday, where a lot of competent professionals will come in and talk – in addition to all stakeholders. For us, it is very important to have a thorough and thorough review of the whole matter, but we do think that it is set up on the part of the Government for a little special time when they have not manned up to make a clear position on the Storting relative to the whole of the compensation scheme. But it makes extra demands on us as big-time representatives, and we need to hear everyone, be in dialogue with both the government parties and all the other stakeholders, so that we can get a happy outcome on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e193	The North Sea divers who are going to get up to $200,000 in this case are probably out of every penny. They have, like a few others, made an effort for modern Norway. They have unfortunately paid with their own health and labour, and that is sad. What's happy is that they're now getting parched and chafing also from the Storting. But health can never be replaced. A life can never live again. Damage can only be partially compensated for financially, even if it helps to get serious and helps to clear up economic problems. The purpose of this case is to speed up a replacement that the Government has set up in order to come later. There's no reason to believe that the Storting will train this. And it's good that big business and government have the ability to act when they realize that it's urgent. It's not often that a 10 million prize. kr will be treated as quickly as possible. But it was just supposed to be missing. I hope that immediate action and debt advice will make our pioneers in the North Sea understand that the country's top governmental powers are now taking their case seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e204	St. pp. No 85 for 2002-2003 is about immediate action for pioneer divers. Over the past four years, it has been demonstrated that the state should take greater responsibility for the first divers from the North Sea Pioneer Times. The Centre Party, like the other Committee, will come back to the various aspects of this responsibility when considering St.meld. No 47. Let me just underline the following: we knew, when in the government in 1999, we took the initiative to review the refusal of disability to those who asked for it, to refer to Haukeland for late injuries and to pay compensation, that we took on a case that could lead to new insights and thus further assessment of upliftment and financial compensation. We are pleased that the Government has taken immediate action for the pioneers who are in a precarious and acutely difficult economic situation. We are also pleased that the contact telephone for pioneer divers is set up and well under way. It has been shown to have a very important function. The Committee shall have a hearing in relation to the notification of St.meld on Monday, 10 November. No 47. It is my hope that she will provide a good basis for a thorough follow-up of a difficult but very important case complex, and that through cooperation across the parties the Stortinge will be able to set a worthy point in relation to the pioneer divers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e217	I am very pleased that there is a general response to the proposal on funds for immediate action, and I only want to inform you that 5,9 million have been used so far. kr to those who are in the most precarious situation. We have the impression that at least it helps a little bit in a very difficult phase. I'm also glad that the committee joins the Government's proposal that we can use up to $ 1⁄2 million. the funds for indebtedness advice under the auspices of the Foundation. This is very important to help the people. I shall not, like the representatives, go into the reality of the larger matter. But I want to ask that, as the Storting enters into the larger case, also in the hearings, we try to try to stand together as closely as possible. There may be differences of opinion, but trying to come up with an overall solution is the main reason why the government has chosen not to make a concrete proposal. We believe that there is a need for broad cooperation in the interests of the people involved. We are faced with a group that has made an effort for society far beyond what can be expected to be done, which has been subjected to pressures that are so great that – I would almost say fortunately – in the present time no one knew how much pressure it was about. We're talking about a group that has suffered very serious sensitivities and that individuals are exceptionally vulnerable. I'm glad that there's a general uprising in the Storting that we have to treat this group in a dignified way, that whatever you might think of it, there is also a consensus that we have a clear political and moral responsibility towards the group. And then I hope that the whole process in Stortinget will take place in a way that does not add further stones to the burden on the group.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e228	The Labour Party, like the other parties, is pleased that we can now take a decision on an immediate payment to those pioneers who have come into a difficult economic situation. But this is a big deal. When the Committee now takes up St.Bericht. No 47 and goes into all the difficult cases, it requires that you need to spend some more time. Here one has to show thoroughness, so that we get a good and transparent picture of this difficult matter, where finally the Storting must also take responsibility for the job these pioneer divers have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e233	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 358]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e249	Inner. S. No 10 for 2003-2004: ILO’s 90th International Labour Conference in Geneva 3-20. ==References== The message gives a brief overview of the most important issues dealt with at the conference and the decisions taken. The message also contains a recommendation on how Norway should address the issue of ratification of the Protocol on Social Security and Health, as well as information on Recommendation No. 193 on the promotion of cooperative enterprises and Recommendation No. 194 on accidents and diseases related to professional practice. There is a group of committees behind the setting, so I just want to make a few brief comments from my side. The one question relates to Convention No. 155 on safety, health and the working environment, approved by Norway as early as 1982. This time the protocol is concerned with the harmonisation of recording and reporting systems and statistics on diseases and accidents related to working life. The protocol is not in accordance with Norwegian law. Hearing evidence clarifies that there is a difference of opinion as to whether accidents during travel to or from work are to be considered as the employer’s responsibility. No currently holds Professor Asbjørn Kjønstad a selection that looks at the future occupational injury regime in Norway, and the committee shares the department's opinion that the occupational injury selection takes the protocol into account. The Committee believes that both the issue of ratification of Convention No. 161 on occupational health services and Convention No 121 on occupational injury should be assessed in that context, and the same applies to the question of compliance with the Recommendation. But let me stress that from the committee's point of view, we have not seen the point of getting into a closer discussion. So that means we don't have a position on these questions. This is what we will do when the evaluations from the Gender Selection are made. Recommendation No 193 liabilities of cooperative enterprises. The Ministry of Justice stated in its hearing that the draft did not create any problems with regard to Norwegian co-operation law or with regard to its 2002 proposal. But the ministry also says that it can look as if Norwegian banking legislation does not comply with the draft, because it contains a ban on cooperative banks. The Committee notes that the same department believes that if the Banking Law Commission adopts its proposal for a ban on the establishment of credit associations, it may raise questions in relation to the recommendation. The Committee agrees with the Ministry that the recommendations contained in the Recommendation will be taken into account in the further work on the Act on Co-operation. In addition, I would like to say that one final member of the Department of Justice also points to the chapter of the Recommendation that relates to the participation of women in the lease. While the interoperability committee has not submitted proposals for gender representation in cooperatives, it is stated that in 2002 a working group of representatives from several departments and the cooperative sector working on measures to strengthen gender representation in the main interoperability organisations was set up. It is also a work that is important to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e264	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 359]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e280	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e287	This is a matter inherited by the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administration from the Committee on Justice. Some of the annual exercises that Stortinget does may not be full of opinions and purposes. This matter is not such a matter. It is a very good review of a very important activity in the field of education and supervision. In this room there is no disagreement about the importance of data protection. In a modern democratic legal state, individual privacy and personal data must be protected. These are under considerable pressure, in particular through an information technology and technological development that opens up many opportunities for monitoring, recording and monitoring. If no one is vigilant against this development, we will quickly end up with unwanted results. In this area, supervision and mentioning do a very important job. There is a significant consensus within the Committee on the views on these annual reports. However, there are some minority comments from SV. We in the majority have not seen it right to go into the comments from SV, on the basis that these are details of matters relating to other committees, and issues that are very complex. We feel that it is not right to go into such a context in connection with an annual report. An annual report should, in the view of the majority, have a more general and overall perspective. Having said that, I would like to say that in one area a joint committee sends a very clear signal, and that is that you want the Data Protection Agency to be a direct consultative body in as many public investigations and cases as possible, in order to be able to take care of their work as a watchman.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e302	It is not common to give signals in connection with an annual report, but SV believes this is such an important matter in our society that we will do it anyway. Privacy must be safeguarded and a natural part of the drafting of laws and regulations, social development, market power and new technologies. In this context, it is essential that we have a central body that monitors and informs the public about privacy. The main task of data protection is to protect the privacy of individuals from being infringed, while at the same time the Data Protection Authority shall be a supervisory authority in relation to the Data Protection Act and the Health Register Act. The subject of data protection shall decide on complaints about decisions of the Data Protection Authority under the Data Protection Act and the Health Register Act, thereby exempting individual cases from the Ministry's commanding authority. SV refers to the new organisation of the Data Protection Authority, with the establishment of the Data Protection Board as an independent professional body to ensure the rights of the individual. I would like to point out that many of the complaints dealt with in the Privacy Policy are of a principle nature, and there are difficult issues that matter to many. This means that the issues dealt with by the Privacy Department need a broader investigation procedure. SV sees that this can mean longer processing and is more resource-intensive than previously assumed. The data subject has eight meetings per year, but there may be a need to see whether the meeting frequency should be increased by one meeting per month in order to shorten the processing time. Important seminars are also held to strengthen the information service of departments, ministries and other interested parties on privacy and other issues. SV will invite the Government to look at the necessary measures to strengthen resource access to the Subject in order to maintain a high level of procedure and a short period of time. The Socialist Left Party believes that privacy means the right to control personal data. SV agrees with the Data Protection Authority that it is essential that such assessments are addressed as early as possible during the process of dealing with new issues. At the same time, SV notes that the supervision of several public investigations and legislative proposals is not listed as a direct consultation body. We consider this to be very unfortunate and will ask the Government to make the administration aware of the importance of this. In addition, the departments should make greater reference to the discussion on the basis of which a case is not considered to be a breach of privacy. There must be serious reasons, such as: suspicion of serious criminal offences, for reasons of using information obtained in one context in a completely different situation. As regards money laundering, SV has noted that the Data Protection Authority in the comments made by the processors of the Money Laundering Act points out that central privacy considerations have not been discussed. We assume that this is corrected in the final law. When the Government’s legislative proposal includes an extension of the obligation to investigate and report to more groups than at present, and the specific professional secrecy of Ecokrim in money laundering is proposed, it is likely that these changes will result in more and more money laundering cases being dealt with by the police. SV stated in comments to the Raising Act that it is important that Ecocrim complies with its obligation to delete data. The work of the Monitoring Committee on Anti-money Laundering needs to be taken into account, and SV assumes that the Department is closely monitoring developments in this area. It is precisely in such cases that the need for control must be discussed and privacy considerations taken into account. SV shares the concerns of the Data Protection Authority in relation to the processing of personal data by the healthcare system. Such information is among the most sensitive we have, and SV is pleased that this area is also a priority in the current year. There are complaints that many social services routinely require detailed account statements of clients as part of the documentation on the payment of social assistance. However, such payment transactions may contain sensitive personal data. SV would stress that there is a requirement in the Data Protection Act that all processing of personal data should be factually justified and relevant. This is important in order to limit the collection of surplus information and the use of such information. SV takes up its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e323	The representative of May Hansen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e326	I am pleased that the Committee emphasises both the importance of the Data Protection Authority and the subject of privacy, and points to the importance of strengthening the position they have in relation to, among others. public hearings. Privacy is important. It is about fundamental legal certainty, and it may even be more about the individual’s security that personal data does not go astray. And at a time when we're naturally very concerned with social security and crime, it's all the more important that we have a highly independent body that can ensure that these considerations do not conflict with the individual's natural right to the protection of his person and his personality. I am very pleased that the Committee asks us to ensure that the Data Protection Authority is consulted on all matters that have privacy aspects, and we will follow up that request. At the same time, I would like to say that the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Officer are a model of how the Government believes that supervisory activities should be organised more generally, and it is good to note that the Storting believes that this model works well in this area. I also want to take this opportunity to give the Data Protection Authority, and the head of the Data Protection Authority, a tribute for the work they do, not only with individual matters, but with putting privacy on the public agenda. It is important when we have independent public oversight, that these not only work well in relation to individual matters, but that they contribute to putting the issues they are set to manage on the public agenda. There is no one other than the Data Protection Agency who can undertake the task of being a continuous watchman for the individual's personal interests, the more important it is that they do the job and that they do the job in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e337	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 359]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e345	The store is ready to go to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e426	During the debate May Hansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop without delay clear guidelines on the cases in which social services can obtain bank statements.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-06.ana.ud1905e459	There is no record.
