ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e45	They called for alternates, for Hordaland County of Erlend Nornes and for Troms County of Leif Christian Johansen, have taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: From November 4 to November 11. From the delegation of the Grand Duchy to the 49th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Orlando, Florida, an application has been submitted to the representatives of Kjetil Bjørklund, Per Roar Bredvold, Trond Helleland and Per Ove Width from November 7 to November 13 for permission from the representative of Ranveig Frøiland. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For East-Agder County: Liv Marit Moland For Busherud County: John-Ragnar Aarset For Hedmark County: Johnny Hult For Hordaland County: Rita Tveiten For Uppland County: Tove Lehre For Sogn and Fjordane County: Liv Signe NavarseteFor Vestfold County: Vidar Andersen3. Johnny Hult, Tove Lehre and Vidar Andersen are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives Per Roar Bredvold, Kjetil Bjørklund and Per Ove Width respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e118	Liv Signe Navarsete is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e124	On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme for the current week be amended in such a way that, on Thursday 6 November following the end of the Annual General Meeting, the minutes of the Odelstinget meeting are held. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e132	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e137	I suggest Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e142	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e162	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e169	For examination there is Document No. 8:103 for 2002-2003, where representatives from SV ask the Government to present a report on student assessment in primary and secondary education with a view to renewing the current examination scheme. An overall committee believes that today’s examination schemes should be considered and an overall committee agrees that this should be done when the quality committee’s cancellation notification is addressed. The question of assessment forms and examination schemes in primary and secondary education is important because it determines decisively how to teach. The working party believes that today's external censorship examination system in primary school is cost-intensive and not suitable. We therefore believe that consideration should be given to further developing the characterisation systems and to different ways of assessing students’ learning in order to provide students with more comprehensive feedback and guidance at school. One of the biggest challenges in primary school today, and especially in high school, is that many students are struggling with lack of motivation. Alternative forms of evaluation and characterisation must therefore have the overall intention of stimulating the individual student’s desire for greater learning outcomes and personal growth rather than to act as stigmatisers. Today’s student evaluation and characterisation system does not necessarily adequately support students’ learning and development. The Labour Party therefore agrees that there is a need to assess today’s system in order to have a system that is more capable of assessing students’ overall efforts throughout education than now. It is important that the students also participate actively in their own evaluation, and we therefore believe that the Government should consider whether additional funding should be given to the student organisation to take care of and ensure the information and activation of pupils with student assessment. In line with the fact that the purpose of student assessments of a different character should always be to promote learning and development, the Labour Party believes that the ongoing evaluation should be strengthened. On the other hand, a proper review is the most natural to take in connection with the processing of the quality selection settings. We therefore agree with the majority of the Committee, which is in favour of suspending the examination of the proposal for the examination of the Government's notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e186	The debate on what are the best learning strategies in schools is extensive and has many different approaches. In-flight evaluation and examination are some of the learning strategies used in the Norwegian school, but these strategies have gradually changed with the development of the school system. The debate on the topic in the document we are dealing with is interesting, but it comes at the wrong time. The quality committee has delivered its report and the consultation round has just ended. The report also addresses proposals for new learning strategies and the Quality Committee proposes other approaches in the field of en route and final evaluation. The Government has notified a Quality Assurance Communication in the initial training, where this theme is likely to be affected. With this in mind, the Right does not want to conclude from Stortinget at this point in time. The size should show respect for the work carried out by the Quality Committee and for all those who have given their opinion on the sample’s proposal. The Ministry will treat all recordings in a good manner and present a conclusion to the Stortinget. For that reason, the right-hand side has also not received comments from the minority in the Committee. Not because you disagree with everything that is said, but you want to wait to take the lead from the Storting. Let's hope that's what the minority is taking for information. When presenting the quality report of initial training to the Stortinget, a good and broad debate on education in Norway has emerged. The right is looking forward to this, and then the debate on evaluation and examination schemes will also be seen in a broader perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e197	The Contracting Party agrees with the conclusion that the document is annexed to the Protocol. I have two points of view on the way. One is to clarify on behalf of the Progress Party that we are happy with the grades, and we are dedicated to using the grades and will be doing so in the future, so that when the quality committee's report is also being discussed, we will focus on continuing to use the grades in the school. We even want the grades back in from the fifth grade. The second point of view concerns NOU 2003:16 ‘First row’. It contains a number of important issues, ranging from funding to measurement and evaluation, which are addressed in this document. In the case of exams, we have chosen to await the processing of the sample report at that point. At the same time, we would stress that this NOU and the report should not become a bag post that will capture almost all the political debate and a number of the themes affected by the sample. Then, in the Progress Party, we think specifically about funding, the structure, the laws and regulations, which we will consider taking a stand on and looking into in the period before we have completed the Quality Committee's report.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e206	Sv has put forward a proposal to renew today's examination system and assessment methods in school. The choice of methods of assessment and examination is of major importance for forms of education and for the content of schools. The requirements of pupils in the final assessment affect the choice of educational material and work forms throughout the school year. It is therefore important that there is consistency between the objectives of the training and the in-flight assessment and at the end of the school cycle. The development of school assessment methods can, in the SV's view, contribute to quality raising and renewal of learning processes. SV is concerned with quality and contents of primary school. Our proposal is that we want to see the thirteen-year-old race more fully. We know that about 97 pst. By the students continue from primary to secondary education, we know that over 90 pst. of the students enter their first choice. SV believes that today’s primary school leaving exams are both unnecessary and resource-intensive. The funds currently used in the initial training examination should be channelled into in-flight evaluation. SV wants to put the student in the center. SV believes that today’s examination scheme makes this difficult. Students do not receive the adapted and organised education they need, it shows both the evaluation of Reform 97 and the PISA report referred to many times by the Council of State. The curricula for both primary and secondary education focus on individual training. Per. Today, we know that there are at least 65 trials of alternative forms of examination and assessment in primary and secondary education. I would like to refer to a good example from the municipality of Namso, where one has a pilot project at Otterøy School, Høkensjugskole and Olav Dunn secondary school, where one cooperates on a thirteen-year comprehensive school run, and where one has removed the exam at primary school. I would also like to point out that the Quality Committee in its setting proposes to remove exams in primary school. The Education Centre’s 2001 report states that the resources for the pupil assessment could be better used by replacing the take-off tests with character and learning support tests. As I said, SV is concerned with the content of the school, and we are concerned that both the evaluation of the Reform 97 and the PISA report, as I mentioned earlier, show that the Norwegian school today is unable to follow up on each student. It's the weakest who loses. I would like to present a challenge to the Council of State Kristin Klemet that, in the context of the work of the Quality Committee which is currently in progress, the student assessment and the coherence of the thirteen-year school cycle are one of the important issues in this work. Finally, I would like to clarify that SV does not take up its proposal for voting, but will see this in context when we go through the Government's message in the light of the quality selection setting. We want to change today's evaluation system and examination system in both primary and secondary education where you put the student in the center, where you get the best out of the student and get a school based on the needs of each student.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e223	The Christian People's Party is also concerned with the content of the school and will put the student in the center, where I agree with the previous speakers. But the Christian People's Party also believes it is important for the students to be evaluated at school. This applies both to guidance during the learning process itself and to feedback on work done. At the same time, we need to be willing to look at the assessment methods we have today, so that the guidance can be as useful as possible to the students. It is therefore very important that we always try to improve both assessment forms and examination schemes in primary and secondary education. This is to make sure that we have systems that make it possible for the students to show what they can, and to be evaluated on the basis of it. The characterisation must be fair. The Christian People's Party will hold on to the fact that the students will receive uncharacteristically up to high school. Today, at a youth level, they are assessed with character in addition to informal and more complementary comments in the course of learning. In order to gain alternative experience, it is positive that local and demarcated trials are being tested without the use of grades in high school. I would like to stress that there is a difference between the need for secondary and secondary assessment. The characteristics of secondary education form the basis for admission to higher education, while the characteristics of secondary education form the basis for admission to many different forms of higher education or working life. The different objectives of the grades at the two levels must be taken into account in the assessment of the most appropriate assessment and examination methods. The introduction of national tests for 10th grade in Norwegian, mathematical and English gives reason to discuss whether there will still be a need for today's 10th grade examination in these subjects. Perhaps students and teachers will be better served with other forms of assessment in addition to national tests? The examination gives an indication of the competence of the individual subjects. As such, the examination may provide corrections to the content and working conditions of the training. For example, in the spring of 2004, it is announced that PCs will be used for the math exam. I'll come back to this in the Question Time tomorrow. A number of schools are currently testing new trials with different assessment methods. The student organisation has also worked on student assessment and has given input into a new assessment form. They will remove today's exam and introduce a map evaluation system, in which all students develop their individual presentation folder for each subject. Folder assessment is also in line with what the Quality Committee has proposed. They see directory evaluation as both a method of operation and an assessment form of training. The sample also shows that map evaluation is now being used in many countries and that good results have been obtained from using this form of evaluation. The positive thing about directory assessment is that it can provide a somewhat clearer response to individual students in relation to professional development. This applies both in areas where progress is shown in work and in areas where the student should continue to work. At the same time, it is important to stress that in-flight assessment is not entirely new. Teachers also use this today and have done it for a long time, as an important form of feedback to students. However, it may not have been used as systematically as proposed by the Quality Committee and the Student Organisation. The Christian People's Party takes a positive view of different attempts, and we should be able to take advantage of the experience they have in the further work. However, we do not want to draw any conclusions from the fact that we are already taking the lead in the future, because this should be assessed not only individually but also as part of a wider context. To spring, when the Government submits a roll-out message in the light of the quality committee's suspension, initial training shall be assessed in its entirety. Different elements are related – both the type of education, the different forms of education and the subject is associated with determining which type of examination and assessment can be the best. I look forward to having a thorough debate on this too.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e244	The Committee agrees on two points regarding current examination and evaluation methods, namely that they should be assessed and that this assessment should be carried out when the notified notification based on the decision of the Quality Committee is dealt with in the Spring Storting. It is a reality that forms of examination and assessment in Norwegian school today are governing education. Selection of evaluation methods and examinations affects both educational and work forms at school. It is therefore necessary to align the training objectives with the in-flight evaluation and the final evaluation. The centre party believes that the main purpose of the student evaluation must be to promote learning and help the student develop and thus achieve realistic goals. Adapted training requires a continuous en-route evaluation. In the proposal we are dealing with, the representatives Rikvam, Jensen and Holmås refer to trials where alternative forms of examination and assessment are used. I share the opinion of the proposers that the results of these trials should be systematised and evaluated so that they can be used when developing new evaluation and examination schemes for the whole of School Norway. The Parties share the view of the rest of the Committee that evaluation and examination forms should be considered when the notified notification based on the setting of the Quality Committee is to be widely addressed to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e255	First, a little comment on Raymond Robertsen's posts. He believes that this is an important matter we are dealing with, but that it comes at the wrong time. We dealt with this matter already in April, and it was quite many months before we got the Quality Committee's suspension, so when we took up the matter, it was the right time. We now accept that it is seen in the context of the quality committee's setting, and that we do not take a comprehensive reality treatment here and now. Still, there's something that surprises me a few of the speeches, that one doesn't take in the knowledge you have, because one has quite a lot of knowledge about exams, evaluations and grades. A few years ago, we received a research-based evaluation of Reform 94. It was clear and clear. We did not succeed in the content reform, but we have put the structures in place. The evaluation identified a few areas of concern. One was the strong emphasis on exams and grades, because it seemed so dominant in teaching. That's why you couldn't get to these new learning venues. So, the exam is very controlling for the activity. Now we have an evaluation of L97. We will talk more about this later today, but there is also a fairly clear conclusion. We failed with the content changes. We're not going to get to this with individual customization. We're not getting what we want in relation to new forms of learning and new pedagogics, which are important. It also points out that the strong emphasis on exams and grades seems very controlling, and that one maintains a traditional pedagogy. So we know a lot about this. The question is to take this inward, so that we can change the frameworks around that prevent us from succeeding in the content reforms that we have asked for in both Reform 94 and L97. It is important to grasp the framework and perhaps the most important framework for this examination and evaluation system. So a little comment to the end of Elsa Scarbøvik: It's clear that we also want evaluation and evaluation, but it's going to happen along the way, in the learning process. For us, it becomes absolutely essential that all evaluation, all assessment, have one goal, not segregation, not a system that distributes students further into the system, but it should be learning-supporting, it should build on the learning work, and then we have to choose evaluation forms, exam forms, which do just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e266	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 306]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e282	Isaac Newton must have said that people build too many walls and too few bridges. The setting here must represent the bridges. This is a good and balanced attitude in which the Committee stands together on all points. We clearly underline the need for a review aimed at strengthening the counselling service in initial training, and we believe that most of the reasons given in the proposed document are relevant when assessing how. We have not taken a specific position on issues relating to instruments or resources, but will await the follow-up to the Quality Committee's spring setting, because the Quality Committee is dealing with this issue in a separate chapter. On one point, however, we have noticed some preliminary positive experiences, and this is a shared advisory service, which started as a test project at the request of Stortinget. The conclusion is that we ask the Ministry to consider the different reasons and proposals in this draft document when they come back with the follow-up to the Quality Committee's recommendation in spring 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e291	The background to the proposal from Åslaug Haga, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and myself is that the counselling service in primary and secondary schools is not good enough. For several years, there has been criticism of the functioning of counselling services in today’s school. Many students and parents experience that the counsellor has too little time for each student, and that the adviser does not have sufficient overview and knowledge of the choices and admission requirements that students face. Similarly, many advisers feel that there is insufficient time for each individual student or the ability to stay up to date within the different areas of responsibility. There are more issues that make the vocational and educational guidance in schools more central and demanding today than before. The introduction of Reform 94 includes, inter alia: have led students to make choices about future studies and occupations earlier than before, because the right to re-election is limited. At the same time, the choice of the number of basic courses in higher education is so great that it may be difficult for individuals to assess the different offers and the skills they provide. Not least, most students need guidance to become aware of how their own abilities and interests should best be channelled into a course of education. The requirements for efficiency in the course of studies, as is the intention of the Quality Reform, also lead to pressure on students to make the choice of higher education after completion of basic education. In most schools, there is only one teacher in the position of adviser, who is responsible for both education and vocational guidance and social pedagogical guidance. Often this work must be combined with ordinary teaching and professional responsibility. The need for social education guidance in schools is also heightened with an increasingly complex student group in secondary school and a stronger pressure on grades and through-flow requirements. Consequently, consultants have a broad scope of work, where peaks actually tend to coincide in time. In total, therefore, the school’s advisory service is under strong pressure. There is little room for individual guidance and help for personal reflection for the individual student. Some of the reasons are that there is too little time available to the counselling service and that social education often consumes a large part of the time. Therefore, in order to strengthen both the vocational and educational guidance and the social educational guidance, these functions should be shared and the advisory services should be strengthened. I believe that the rapporteur, Mr Bjørnstad, has explained well the Committee's position, which concludes by asking the Ministry to consider the proposals contained in Document No. 8:113 for 2002-2003, with a view to strengthening the advisory service when, in the light of the suspension of the Quality Committee, the Government sends a communication to the Stortinget in spring 2004. As proposers, we are pleased that an overall committee states that the advisory service should be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e302	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 306]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e318	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e329	Inner. S. No 15 for 2003-2004 concerns the development of two important road sections. There is E18 Kopstad-Gulli in Westfold, with partial toll financing, and amended arrangements for the development of parts of Rv 4 in Uppland. The Ministry of Transport, in its proposal, proposes the development of the project E18 Kopstad-Gulli in Westfold with State resources and partial toll financing. The extension of E18 in Westfold to four-field road is mentioned for Stortinget on several occasions, at the latest in St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002. E18 between Oslo and Kristiansand is one of the main road sections in Norway. The importance of the route is great for both the population and the business community. The E18 is a continuous four-field road from Eik in Buskerud to Kopstad in Vestfold. The E18 further south in Westfold is high-traffic and the standard is not adapted to traffic volumes. There are capacity problems during periods of the route between Kopstad and Larvik, and many serious accidents occur on the route. Furthermore, the peripheral settlement along the E18 is subject to significant environmental disadvantages. New four-field sections through the county will bring considerable benefits to road users in terms of accessibility and road safety. By replacing today's two-field road by four-field road, 70-90 pst is expected. a reduction in the number of personal injury accidents, with the greatest reduction in the number of serious accidents. The Kopstad-Gulli project comprises the construction of a 12 km quadruple road between Kopstad on the exit to Horten and Gulli on the exit to Tønsberg. The financial plan proposes a base of 680 million. SEK in State resources and SEK 820 million. kr in tolls through an extended toll collection plant in existing toll stations in Sande. Tolls are based on increases in tolls at E18 and extended toll collection periods at both E18 and Rv 313, from about 11 years to nearly 15 years. Installation start is set for the autumn of 2004 with completion in 2007. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, support the Government's proposal to extend the Kopstad-Gulli section as presented. On the other hand, the Progress Party will refer to its observations in the National Transport Plan 2002-2011. The Progress Party points to the state’s revenue on car and car use today to over DKK 44 billion, while national highway appropriations on the state budget for road, maintenance and investment are only DKK 12 billion. In the case referred to above, the party to the proceedings shall then submit the following proposals: «E18 in Westfold on the Kopstad-Gulli routes is being expanded in accordance with the Government's proposal in St.prp. [[Horten-Tønsberg]] [[2002-2003]] No 78 The second case in Innst. S. No 15 refers to a modified scheme for the development of parts of Rv4 in Uppland. Through the treatment of St.prp. No 74 for 2000-2001 the Stortinget approved a partial toll-financed extension of Phase 1 of Rv 4 in Oppland, which includes the sections Reinsvoll-Hunndalen and Lygna N-Einavold and the construction of toll stations. It was assumed that the build-up would take place in parallel with toll collection. In this proposal, the Ministry of Transport proposes a revised approach to the financing of Phase 1 of the planned development of Rv 4 in Oppland. The background to the proposed changes is reduced toll revenue and increased costs. The proposal is to amend the tolling system from parallel expansion and collection to extension with borrowing and toll recovery. When the Reinsvoll-Hunndalen project is opened up for traffic during 2006, toll collection in the toll stations of old Rv 4 at the Breiskellen and new Rv 4 at the Groendalen. The recovery period after this arrangement is provided for to increase to a total of nine years. Furthermore, the Ministry of Transport stresses that there is local support for the amended toll scheme proposal and that the project is still socially viable. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, supports the Government’s proposal for amendments to the Toll Scheme. An overall committee assumes that phase 2 of the development of Rv 4 is realised as outlined in St.prp. No 74 for 2000–2001 and to which the Stortinget has joined. The Committee thus refers to the following reference in St.prp. No 74 for 2000-2001: ‘The Ministry stresses the importance of seeing the two phases in the context. In this context, it is noted that this has been an important prerequisite for the local examination of the case. The Ministry of Transport aims to return to Stortinget with a final proposal to collect tolls in order to finance the development of phase 2 as a matter of its own. An overall assessment of the investments in the corridor is assumed here.’» The progress party refers to St.prp. No 74 for 2000-2001, see Innst. S. No 296 for 2000-2001 on the development of Rv 4 and more St.prp. No 67 for 2002-2003, see Innst. S. No 272 for 2002-2003, where Rv 4 obtained the status of herd road from Bjørvika in Oslo to Mjøsbrua, crossed E6 and Rv 4. The progressing party would point out that the road has a significant traffic with an ADT of up to 43 000 vehicles and that the road has an unconnected road standard from four-field in Oslo to two-field with a plane crossing. Phase 1 between Gjøvik and Reinsvoll has a poor standard in relation to traffic density, which is about 10 000 ÅDT. The construction of phase 1 will lead to a significant reduction in traffic accidents, noise and pollution, as the new road will be bypassed by the centre of Raufoss. These members will propose that Rv 4 be expanded according to St.prp. No 78 for 2002-2003, but with toll collection on Rv 4. The Progress Party shall then submit the following proposals: ‘The toll company shall be entitled to collect tolls for the implementation of Stage 1 of Highway 4 in Uppland and toll collection on Rv 4. In addition, the tolling company shall be responsible for raising and managing the intended loans. The conditions for the revised toll arrangement are set out by St.prp. [[2002-2003]] No 78 and Inn. [[2003-2004]] S. No 15
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e383	The representative of Thore A. Nistad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e386	In St. prp. No 78 and Innst. S. No 15 is a little dynamite. The Transport Committee has as far as I can think, not said no to a single toll project. That's the way it is today. The working party is in the majority when it applies to both of the projects contained in the proposition. The profit people will get into this fissure layer, exceeding far increased price as well as prolonged collection time. So even with these 12 km of new four-field motorways in Westfold, it is still a long way to go before one has reached the Telemark border, and traffic figures are so high that further action must be taken in the rolling of the national transport plan. I regret that the Westfold package, where the whole E18 in the county was mentioned, was only as a word on paper. We are well aware of the action groups and the noise that the location of the bombs in the southern state has created. We also understand Telemark's frustration. In the border country towards Westfold, the road is of poor standard. Some claim that in Westfold they get a good way without paying – or paying little – while those who run through take the heaviest burden. And then I also need to comment on the cost-benefit calculations that are mentioned. This is hard to calculate, because this is a partial parsel. The cost-benefit is estimated to be 0.5. ‘The Ministry of Transport will assess how this can be handled in a better way in future cases of this nature’, says the Proposition. In these efficiencies, with the annual figures we have here, and with the road standard that we're building up to four-field highways, I'm wondering if one needs to use resources on this. In the case of ‘Amended arrangements for the development of parts of Rv 4 in Uppland’, there is a refusal of traffic, the basis for toll collection and an increase in costs on the basis of which this matter will be resolved. The same applies to any extension in time for toll collection. It also says that the borrowing rate is 7 pst. It seems like I'm high at these times, as we're being tuned in full by the historically low interest rate level. But this I expect the department to take care of when Stortinget now gives its authority to negotiate with the toll company. St. pp. No 74 for 2000-2001 also mentioned a phase 2. The working party assumes that there is an accident at work that one has nothing to do with it in St. prp. No 78, and asks the Government to note the Committee's plural comment in the setting, where we repeat what was agreed. In both cases, road safety will increase when the projects are completed. People who live along the roads get environmental benefits and better roads. The challenge we're facing is that we're building a new road just piece by piece and division, while the overall need is enormous everywhere. That's the way it is, and that's what it's going to be. It's just that the people who are now sitting in the government chairs had turned their expectations up. The reality is that the gap between the framework of the national transport plan and the annual budgets is growing, and we in the Labour Party are asking questions about reorganization to Mesta and more competition will actually bring some benefits. We wonder whether supervision, calculation of supply documents and follow-up will result in even more toll projects – something that time will show.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e405	St. pp. No 78 contains two cases of partial toll-financed development of Kopstad-Gulli at E18 in Westfold and Rv4 in Uppland. One of the most important tribal road sections in Norway is in fact the distance between Oslo and Kristiansand. This route is of great importance both to the population and to the business community. I am therefore very pleased to state today that another important route will now be extended to four-field roads. To date, we have a continuous four-way route from Eik in Buskerud to Kopstad in Vestfold, the work is under way with a new motorway bridge in Drammen, and the Kleivene tunnel is under construction. The stretch we are dealing with today is heavily damaged. By expanding the road to a four-field road with midpoints, 70-90 pst. a reduction in personal injury accidents, with the greatest reduction for the most serious accidents. Environmental conditions will also improve significantly for the local population by laying the new road away from the rural environment. Construction start of the route will be in the autumn of 2004, with completion in 2007. Local authorities support the project and external quality assurance has been implemented. The President of the Advance Party belongs to the minority, and there is nothing new in such cases. The Progress Party has a seemingly inexhaustible jar of state resources that they can distribute for all good purposes. But the jar is not exhaustive. The widespread use of oil money provided by the Progress Party will reduce the possibilities of meeting future pension obligations. Such use of money will also lead to an increase in prices, an increase in interest rates and a rise in the price of crowns, with all the consequences it would have for jobs, the local economy and the family economy. Right wants a better road network, but we don't want to rage the Norwegian economy. In the case of the Socialist Left Party, they surprise me in this matter. They want, among other things: an investigation of a partial wood-field road with its centre parts on the route. In response to the Committee, the Ministry said that there would be a very poor solution, including: because this would result in poorer traffic management, it would not lead to any improvement on the environmental side, there would be a high risk of accidents in the transition from three-field to four-field roads, and too many transitions from one standard to another would be very unfortunate on the same route. I also think that the Socialist Left Party could then say directly that they would rather not build the road network, that they would rather stick to the railway. It's an honest and fair priority that there is a railway SV going in for. But what they add up to here is something that I would say is neither – nor. Right, I'm glad this project is now on its way. The remaining route to the Telemark border we want to get back to in connection with the national transport plan. In the case of Rv4 in Uppland, the Storting adopted in the treatment of St.prp. No 74 for 2000-2001 toll-funded development. It concerns the sections Reinsvoll-Hunndalen and Lygna N-Einavell. The advance recovery started on 1 July 2002. It was added to base 15 pst. traffic rejection. The first five months were the 50 pst rejections. The project itself has also become somewhat more expensive. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State intervened so quickly and stopped the collection on 1 July 2003 and that we are now to adopt an adjusted toll scheme. The result is an increase of 32 million. SEK in tolls and SEK 69 million. kr in government funds. The recovery will now be made in arrears on old and new Rv4 when the new road is completed in 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e428	When this case was dealt with in connection with the national transport plan many years ago, during the last major period, the present government parties the Left and Christian People's Party wrote in their comments about the challenges facing them in Westfold, that this was an area where the railway had its competitive advantage, and that it was very important the order of development projects in Westfold. If the railway was to become the modern, efficient means of transport that was preferred at the distance, the investments on the rail side had to come before the investments in the construction of a four-field motorway. There were comments that SV was also behind at the time. What we've seen since is the expansion of a four-field motorway through Westfold. I hear that someone thinks it's been a success, because the road traffic on the track the first year it was ready increased by 7 pst. There is no target defined in any plan document, e.g. National transport plan, which states that it is a target with the highest possible traffic growth. No, this is a stretch where it's a goal to limit traffic growth and get more transport onto the railway. But so far, we have moved the money in such a way that we have gained significantly less traffic on the Vestfold track, while road traffic in Vestfold has increased by 7 pst. At least for lots that are concerned with the environment and are also concerned with a modern transport system to address the needs of the future, there is a negative development. And I'm sure the Left Party in its heart agrees that what we've seen in Westfold is not a happy development. The Vestfold railway has investment projects that were ready for the first autumn of this big business. It was investments that were socially very profitable, namely the expansion of Barkåker-Tønsberg and the section Holm-Nykirke. This was investment that a total increase said no to, we wouldn't make these socio-economic very profitable investments, because we didn't have money for it then. Then you come back and invest in a four-field highway instead, to dramatically reduce traffic on the Westfold Railway. I think it is important that we dare to see the transport modes in the context. Because if we don't meet the goal of the first national transport plan to think the corridor, we won't be able to solve the overall transport policy issues we're facing. Corridor thinking in Westfold should be quite obvious. This is an area where the railway has its absolute competitive advantage, and we should have had a completely different development there than the one we've been given. There's one aspect I think there's reason to go deeper into when it comes to the traffic situation in Westfold, and that's the number of traffic accidents. No one can live with such a high death rate on the roads as what we have in Westfold. When I say that, at the same time, I think that we should always clarify and draw attention to the fact that Norway, alongside Sweden, is the country in the world where it is safest to drive. We're pretty good, but we can't accept the death rates we have. Now we see from the Dagblad Barometer that there are fewer deaths this year than at the same time last year, and we are pleased about that. But we have to find solutions that make us come down further. That is why SV has also supported the zero vision, which I have recorded that the Minister of Transport is also very concerned that we are going to be able to reach. Therefore, there is one argument for a four-field motorway through Westfold, and that is that it gets a middle part that avoids the worst meeting accidents. That argument, I think, is heavy, and I think that's reason to go into it more closely. We've done it. We've seen Sweden and seen how they've solved some traffic problems on similar routes. You have ended up wanting to separate the roadways, so you can avoid the collisions, and then you have built the middle parts and partly three-field roads, so that you can get past when you need to. It's not possible to drive so fast on those roads, it's quite right. And if the goal is to run for the first time possible, if that's what we're going to invest the money in, we're building the four-field road. However, many sections of Norway that are now being discussed for a four-field road should be investigated for a three-field road with middle parts. It's a resource question. It's also a socio-economic issue, because it's actually up to us to manage the limited resources we have in the best possible way. In a large-scale expansion of four-field motorways, we hardly do it. We have to compare the social economy in investing in routes where the railway has its absolute advantage, by building four-field motorways, and assess whether we can in many cases cope with a three-field road with middle parts. I think it's going to push itself forward anyway. I realize that it's not going to happen in this case, but I think we're going to have to figure out more and more of that kind of solutions in the future. It will make traffic safer, it will be a better environmental solution, and it could be what makes the railway competitive in the areas where the railway has its absolute advantage. Vestfold is such an area. I'm not going to bother the assembly with numbers. However, I think there is a reason to remember that if we look at all the social sectors in Norway and pick out the sector that is most difficult to meet the international objectives we have set ourselves in relation to reducing climate change, the transport sector is the sector where emissions are growing fastest, and where we have the fewest measures that seem to fit, in order to reduce emissions. That's because of the basic traffic growth. 7 pst. Increases in traffic of one year in Westfold are definitely contributing to this. We also have international obligations that we have to take with us when we discuss transportation projects. What is crucial for passenger development on the Vestfold track versus how many people choose to drive a car into Oslo, is not the only one and only how good this offer is, it is of course also how good the alternative offer on the road is. The sum of what we've spent so far has made road traffic win in Westfold. Rail traffic has lost. I don't want to say that I have given up the fight for further expansion on the Vestfold track – in no way. But the way we've handled the order here, makes the job that I think we have to do on the Westfold course in any case, will be much heavier than if we'd followed the sensible government party left and Christian People's Party gave in the National Transport Plan, in a different order. If we had followed that advice, it would have been a much simpler job. I want to record the SV's suggestion, included on page 4 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e456	The representative, Heidi Sørensen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e459	E18 between Kristiansand and Oslo is one of our most important tribal road sections, not least for value creation and jobs in Rogaland, Agder, Telemark and Vestfold. It is therefore gratifying that the Government is now proposing the development of the Kopstad-Gulli project in Vestfold. This is a stretch that currently has major capacity problems and is highly vulnerable to accidents. Thus, development will both promote accessibility and enhance road safety along one of Norway’s most significant traffic trails. This is the Christian People's Party very pleased. It says something about the importance of the expansion and the value of investments on this route when a decrease in personal injury accidents is expected of between 70 and 90 pst. after the new parcel has been completed. At the same time, it is assumed that there will be the greatest reduction for the most serious accidents. This shows that transport policy is not just about making everyday life easier for people and businesses. Transport policy is also about reducing fatal accidents and reducing traffic damage. This is also the case with transport policy. I'm glad that the Workers' Party and the Center Party are involved in creating a majority of the Government's arrangements for this expansion, yes, I want to commend these two parties for being constructive and solution-oriented in most of the roadways. However, the aim must be to continue progressing through Westfold as soon as possible, which has to be reflected in the national transport plan. In the notes, the Progress Party points out that the state’s revenue on car and car use today is well worth NOK 44 billion, and uses this as a justification to say no to the development of Kopstad-Gulli with toll financing. This is strange reasoning. Firstly, the Progress Party does not count on all the costs of car use to society every year. Secondly, it would be chaos if all taxes and taxes were to be earmarked for a purpose that rhymed with the tax item. In this case it had to mean that the alcohol charges should be used for drug-prevention work, etc. I doubt this that the Progress Party will be included as a fixed rule. The Socialist Left Party has a somewhat more idealistic reason to say no to the Government's proposal. Like SV, the Christian People's Party is committed to reducing the use of private cars for the benefit of public transport. But unlike SV, the Christian People's Party does not want to promote public transport by saying no to improvements to bottlenecks and road-hazardous routes. We have to acknowledge that the car has come to stay, and safer roads therefore have to be arranged. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that a majority subscribes to the Government's amended arrangement for the development of parts of Rv4 in Uppland. The government's proposals are now also in line with the proposal of a working group with representatives from the State Road Administration, Oppland County Council and Gjøvik and Vestre Toten municipalities – and it should be in Stortinget's interest to play with the local authorities in such matters. It is very positive that local authorities themselves have been involved in launching alternative solutions, when it appears that reduced toll revenue and increased costs will lead to rational construction, higher costs and socio-economic losses as a result of delayed opening of the facility if the Storting treatment of St. pp.. No 74 for 2000–2001 is used as a basis. It is also gratifying to record that the project is still considered to be socially viable.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e480	The E18 between Oslo and Kristiansand is one of the most important tribal road sections in our country, and the road is of great importance both to the population and to business. Parts of today's E18 have very low standards in relation to traffic volume. This leads to many accidents, queues and delays for road users and noise and pollution for those living along the road. This is the background for the construction of a new four-field motorway on the E18 from Eik in Buskerud to Kopstad in Vestfold. Construction of new motorway bridge over Drammenselva is under way, and further extension of the E18 to the four-field motorway through the Kleivene tunnel is under planning – a project that will otherwise be detailed in the national transport plan for the period 2006-2015, presented in the spring. The E18 from Kopstad southwards in Westfold is high-traffic, and during periods there are capacity problems on the route between Kopstad and Larvik. There are also many serious accidents and the peripherality of the E18 is caused by various environmental handicaps. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees with the Government's assessments of the need for the extension of the Kopstad-Gulli route, thus supporting the proposal. The extension of the Kopstad-Gulli route includes the construction of 12 kilometres of quadruple road and is planned to be financed by both State resources and tolls. Toll collection will take place through an extended collection facility in the existing toll stations in Sande. It is planned to start works in the autumn of 2004 with the opening of traffic during 2007. The project will improve the accessibility, road safety and environmental conditions of the route. A reduction in the number of fatalities is expected and damaged between 70 and 90 pst., with the greatest reduction for the serious accidents. With this expansion, and what else is going on and under planning, there will be continuous four-field road from Oslo to Tønsberg. There will also be a need to extend the route between Langåker and Bommestad. I will return to the implementation of this project in the context of the national transport plan for the period 2006-2015. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee will also assess the progress and prioritisation of the remaining E18 parcels between exit to Tønsberg and Telemark border in the context of the forthcoming national transport plan. In the case of Rv4 in Oppland, the Government proposes a modified arrangement for the financing of Phase 1 of the planned development. If the scheme adopted by the Stortinget through the treatment of St. Prop. No 74 for 2000-2001, had been taken into account, this would result in reduced toll revenue. In addition, costs have also increased. This would in turn lead to rational plant operation, higher costs and socio-economic losses as a result of delayed plant opening. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee has joined the Government's proposal to amend the toll regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e497	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e501	Int. S. No 15 it says: ‘By replacing today’s two-field road with four-field road, 70-90 pst are expected. reduction in personal injury accidents, with the greatest reduction in serious accidents.» This was also mentioned by the Council of State. All previous experience shows that new, modern roads are being built, accident statistics are falling sharply. Then I have the question: why doesn't the Council want to put more effort into road construction to bring down the number of accidents? In addition, there are today several thousand unemployed who could have been put into road construction. These are going to be 66 pst. pay to do nothing. In addition, the contractors have a machine park for several hundred million kroner standing there and rusting away, so we have a huge loss there. If you're summering all this, it's almost free to build new, modern roads. The Council of State was also concerned that this would be a very small reduction in the number of accidents. Does the Council not see the link between investment in new roads and the losses that are today because you do nothing?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e515	Now I am aware that the Progress Party has an offensive road policy, and I want to spend considerable – not to say much – more money on road construction around the country. When we're going to create a transport budget, it's all about getting a lot of road and rail and transport back for the money we spend, and it's about creating an overall budget that the country's earned. Therefore, we cannot use all the tens – not to say hundreds – billions that the Progress Party will spend on road development in a short time, beyond what the Government has put in. It is important to do something to improve road safety. We can do that in a lot of fields. Road construction is one, but there are many other measures that need to be taken to bring down the accident figures – not least that we are creating an attitude towards traffic rules that reduce the number of accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e522	I have two questions for the Council of State. The first is that when four-field motorways were built in the northern part of Westfold, the actual traffic increase was 7 pst. the following year. It was far more than you thought. What does the Council of State think that the increase in traffic will result from this parcel? That's the first question. The second question is in relation to the assessments made by the Left Party in relation to the treatment of the current national transport plan, which was that the order of railway investments and road investments in this area should be made in such a way as to increase the competitive advantage of the railway. What measures does the Minister for Transport now see as necessary in order to increase the competitiveness of the Westfold Railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e531	It is true that there was a significant increase in traffic in the north state when the new four-field road was opened. What happened? Well, traffic accidents went down dramatically. It has clearly been an important factor for us in the further work on what road solution we are going to have in Westfold. What's going to happen to traffic growth will depend on more conditions. But it's likely that traffic growth will be there as long as we fix four fields. The left is occupied by the environment, and occupied by the railway. We're still going to be. There are many places in the country where we would like to have traffic figures for those who travel by rail. What affects it can be a lot of things. What's happening in Westfold now is that it costs more for the drivers to travel on the road than on the railway. It's also a way to facilitate the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e538	When no more people want a line on the council, I take another one, because I wasn't quite satisfied with what the council replied. The Council of State said that she was dependent on seeing an overall budget that the country had earned. That's exactly what I was asking. I am looking at the investments made by the contractors and all the hundreds of millions of kroner that stand there in machines that are not being used. I'm looking at the unemployment rate today, which is 100,000. They get 66 pst. of their wages and salaries. I'm looking at the cost of the accidents. Even Safety Traffic has now gone out and recognised that this is what you need to look at. And I also look at all the suffering of the accidents. The councils are coming to say that she has many ways of bringing down the number of accidents. And then she talks about attitude changes. I fully agree with attitude changes, but in what ways is the Council of State specifically thinking about reducing these accidents?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e547	It's the way that we know, based on the calculations that have been made, that if everyone respected all the traffic rules and followed all the orders and bans that have been made in the transport sector, we could halve the number of accidents and the number of serious accidents. It is very important for us to know when we are going to do road safety work. It's also true that when we're doing a review of the way we're doing our transportation work, for example. in the road sector, it's because we want to have more roadway for each of the heads we use. That's why we have to restructure, and so we have to structure the work in a completely different way from what we've done before. It's not that just we have roads, we get the number of accidents down. We now see a strong trend towards, says both the Police, the Safe Traffic and the Road Administration, that people are running much more aggressively than what they did before.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e552	Now the Minister has explained how to reduce the number of accidents, that is, to make the population comply with traffic regulations 100 p.p., i.e. they all followed traffic rules. How she could do that is a big mystery to me. That she can manage to bring down the number of accidents by enforcing traffic rules more stringently, I understand that. But she says you can get a maximum of 50 pst. reduction in compliance with traffic rules by all in this country, and still 50 pst. of the accidents again. That's what the representative Nistad tried to get an answer to: what does the Council of State intend to do to get all the accidents gone? After all, a zero vision has been adopted in this forum, and after the allocation of the road sector, one is far from achieving goals there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e557	How we're going to get people to respect traffic rules is about all of us traveling on Norwegian roads doing what we can to respect them. So we know that we're people and don't always do it. But if we do what we can, we get a good deal further on that road. I don't think just betting on further road construction will help us to the goal, unfortunately. Had it been one way to go, and only one, to help us get to the goal of the zero vision, we could have done it. But one and only to bet on road construction is unfortunately not the solution. We have to bet on road construction where that is needed. We have to bet on maintenance where that is most needed. We may even have to bet on the railways on some sections where the challenges are such that we are unable to deal with the road accidents on our own.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e564	I am pleased that the Council of State is calling for a level playing field in road safety issues. I think in this context there is also reason to remember that one of the countries in the world that have the most killed in traffic is the United States, and it's very difficult for the Progress Party to claim that they are very far behind in road construction. So there's also other things that are going on. But I have a question for the Council of State. I'm a little horrified if it's the case that more tolls on the E18 are the only thing to do to increase the competitiveness of the Westfold. The last time you did that, when you built the E18 in the north state, railway traffic went down dramatically, and road traffic grew. What measures will the Council of State take to increase competitiveness on the Westfold road?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e571	It is not cheap to build roads in Norway, nor is it cheap to build railways in Norway. That's why it's a challenge to get both of them at a time when we'd rather do both of them, or maybe even prioritize the order differently. The largest construction projects in mainland Norway this year are on the rail network and there are projects that will also have an impact on the Westfold Railway. It is important that we keep good progress on the projects, and then we talk about projects near Oslo. That means that we per. Today, rail is working to improve rail access in relation to Vestfold, while at the same time being burdened with increased costs. Then we will see how we will proceed systematically in relation to the Vestfold track, for example. in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e576	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e580	The development and partial toll financing of Rv 4 is, as has been said here, agreed earlier on the treatment of St.prp. No 74 for 2000-2001. When it turned out that the parallel collection was not in any way successful, materially because of a major rejection, the Department, the Directorate of Roads, the State Road Service and local authorities must have great praise for being constructive when it comes to finding another solution so that the construction operations could continue. It is important for rational operation, and it is important not least to put in place a necessary and long-lasting road conversion and repair as soon as possible. Not least, the industry in the area has been very concerned by a recovery of Rv4 for years. At Raufoss is one of the largest industrial environments in the country, with great transport needs, transport that carries large heavy goods vehicles. The industry has never been late to point to the need for a better road standard towards Oslo. The section Reinsvoll-Hunndalen, which forms part of phase 1, is, as it is now, a heavy accident load and leads to much noise and heavy stress on the centre environment in Raufoss. Therefore, a shift away from Raufoss will improve the emergence, the environment and road safety. The second project in this phase, the pass-by field in what we call the Lightning Trays, is also important for the rise, especially because this runs a lot of slow-moving, heavy driving stuff. We now see that the cost estimate has increased since the treatment of St.prp. No 74 for 2000–2001, but it is worth pointing out that the project continues to have great societal benefits. It is also important to stress that this is a project that is highly prioritised in the state. Riksvegmidlar is a priority here, and the county provides the necessary guarantee. Therefore, I am pleased that the proposition and setting add up to have this implemented quickly. In St. prp. No 74 for 2000-2001 the status of work on phase 2 was also mentioned. It is said that the Ministry of Transport will come back with a financing plan for phase 2 in a later proposition. I want to use this ability to stretch under the need for this to be followed up. Phase 2 is conversion of Rv 4 on the Roa-Jaren section, conversion of Rv 4 with construction of pass-by fields on the Amundrud-Lygna S section and rectification of Rv 34 on the Grime-Wesleelva section. Of these projects, the Roa-Jaren conversion is the largest project. It is a project that needs to be implemented with regard to both road safety, the environment and the future. The regulatory work is under way, and it is all possible for this to be carried out in line with previous decisions. I understand what has been said both here and in the setting, that a collective committee is busy with the same thing, especially when reference is made to the department's own statement from the named St. pp. No 74, where the department itself stresses the importance of seeing the two phases in conjunction, and that this has been an important element in the local treatment of the cases. It would be a good promise for a realization also of phase 2, according to the plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e602	The development of Rv 4 has been a long-haul and sometimes painful process. We should therefore be very pleased that we are now adopting a solution that ensures a hard-pressed expansion. Following the particular difficulties that arose after the previous decision of the Stortingen to finance the road, and the local turmoil, the Government deserves praise for having listened and together with the other stakeholders come up with a joint proposal. Toll financing is itself a controversial starting point for road financing. When choosing this type of funding, it is very important that the collection takes place in a way that is accepted by the population in the area. For the Riksvej 4 through Gjøvik-Toten, this was not the case for the original scheme. The bomb was set up without any visible improvements to an already heavily loaded road network. The bomb was strategically placed in the middle of an area where the audience was met on the way to work or other daily tasks. This will continue to be the case, and it is clear that the local population, although we are talking here about a passageway, will take a significant part of the economic burden that comes. One last aspect was that the delimitation relative to the use of side roads was too poor. This resulted in a traffic rejection of more than 50 pst. – or in other words, there was total traffic noise on the small roads around Raufoss. The background was, of course, the large proportion of the local audience who had a high level of knowledge of the options for re-routing. The need for an extended Rv 4 is undisputed. The Gjøvik-Toten area has the heaviest industrial environments, not only in Uppland, but perhaps throughout the country, and has transported significant exports by car. The fact that this area has remained in a communication behind is very unfortunate, not only for the Gjövik area in isolation, but also for the economic development of the whole region. Major challenges related to a qualitatively good and forward-looking rail service and very poor road links southward along Mjösa to the E6 and the Gardermo area remain unresolved and important transport policy tasks. In the first place, however, it is very positive that Rv 4 is now coming into place. In view of the importance of the road and the more flexible arrangements it is now set up, there should be a good basis for gaining acceptance among the population and for implementing schemes that do not burden the community more than necessary. But the line to Oslo isn't done with this. In the next round, it is vital that we now follow up on phase 2, row 4 over Hadeland, as outlined in St.prp. No 74 for 2000-2001. It is also important that we find good solutions outside Uppland County, and that we get a completion in Nittedal, i.e. in the Akershus area, and that we follow up in relation to a good connection to the Oslo Centre and bypasses southwards. It's often been pointed out by the business community in the region we're talking about, how important it is to get out of the great crossroads called Oslo. We are talking about exports on car trains, and it is clear that good traffic solutions in the Oslo area or around Oslo, on the way south, or on the way east towards Sweden, are also very important to get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e619	Through Vestfold, the drivers have been in line for years, but after the first new part of the E18 was built, through Sande, at least that municipality, in that part of Vestfold, has come out of the exhaust gas mist, so to speak. This does not apply to the whole of Westfold. The new path is nice to look at. It works great compared to being time-saving. But the most important thing is that it's traffic-proof. Fortunately, human life has not gone on this route since there was a four-field highway there. But unfortunately – life is lost on the rest of the E18 southward. It is urgent to get four-field roads through the whole state, primarily to save human lives and problems in relation to accidents, then because it is environmentally best and economically very profitable for the business community. But this also applies to the rest of the southern region. Unemployment is increasing in Westfold. In order to try to stop this negative development, business needs better transport conditions. It is stated in the proposal that plant start-ups are planned for the autumn of 2004. With today's unemployment, I would like the spades to be put in the ground as quickly as possible after the decision has been taken here today. I would also like to take this opportunity to point out that the exit to Horten, Rv 306, is on this part of the route. The way down until the Horten is fully regulated. Funding for that route should soon be ensured by a separate proposal, so that this part can also be opened together with the E18 in 2007. It is good that we now take a step further with the road development in Westfold, but the jam is small, and quickly it does not work either – unfortunately. In my opinion, the extension further south between Tønsberg and Larvik should also be started as quickly as possible. On this route it is now cool all day long. On parts of the line there are now physical dividing lines with one lane on each side. In order to avoid fatal accidents, this is a kind of emergency solution, but the jam is challenging to be a driver and driver when you have the ambulance in your back and you don't have a hitch that you can drive out on – because there's actually no shoulder – and there's a concrete barrier in the middle of the road. It's a challenge. I've tried it. The national transport plan for this period we are now in, says that the route Kopstad-Gulli and Langåker-Bommestad should be given high priority during this planning period. I think it's very bad that the government now seems to take just one distance and push the other distance out into the next planning period. This will have a major impact on road safety. The loss of human life will probably be in those years as well. It will also delay the development of the Ringdal Forest, which is Larvik municipality’s adopted industrial area for the future. Having this economic area expanded will have much to say for the development of jobs in Larvik. Larvik has lost hundreds of industrial jobs in just a few years now, so this is where new industry is needed. However, in order to achieve this, it is necessary to be able to offer the commercial area on the part of the municipality. There has been a point on the part of the Ministry of Transport that there must be local agreement on tolls. There is now a county council decision, so the local consensus is in place. All the government parties in the current government promised in the last major election campaign that the development of E18 throughout the Westfold would be a very high priority. So far, tax relief to the richest is a priority higher than security for all who travel on E18 through Westfold. And that's disappointing, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e639	It is a joyful and long-awaited day for the people of Westfold when the Government's proposal to further extend the four-field motorway to Gulli at Tønsberg is adopted later today. When this stretch to Tønsberg is completed in 2007, as the Council of State said earlier today, it will be the full four-field road to Tønsberg. Then the problems in the Drammen will also be eliminated. This will be of great importance, not only to the people of Westfold and the business community of the region, but also down in the Grenland region of Telemark, and it will also give positive impetus to the Agder region. A large and densely populated area is being linked more and more rapidly to the important markets around the capital in terms of commercial traffic, and the more recreational part of traffic, which in the summer months is more significant from and to the capital, will be much safer and will cause fewer environmental disadvantages to the local environment. The development of the main road network is a State task, but local initiatives and processes are important. Few of the major vital main roadways would have been developed quickly enough if the local interests had not merged into a good deal through tolling schemes – not any desired effort either from the Right, but often necessary to obtain results. The same is true of the E18 development in Westfold, both the one that has already been carried out in the North, the one we are now discussing, and the one that hopefully will continue in the shortest possible time. In this context, difficult processes are often encountered in local communities, where municipalities and even counties are strongly opposed to each other in view of toll collection, services, collection principles, etc. A fast through of St. Prp. No 78 shows that in Westfold too there has been a strong reluctance to address these issues in the context of development. This is natural, as it has great consequences for the community. However, it has gradually been possible to agree, and the treatment here today and the previous processes show the value of local consensus on such issues, and it also shows how important it is to take political local responsibility as early as possible, so that vital road sections do not have unnecessary delays. Moreover, local consensus should probably not stop at county boundaries in all road development issues. For example, the E18 through Westfold has a significant traffic, business and economic importance also for central parts of neighbouring Telemark. Regional processes, in addition to those at county and local level, could increase the legitimacy of decisions taken locally in relation to central authorities, and it would enhance the attention and justification of local wishes and requirements as regards the practice of the principle of funding and recovery times. The main road development from Oslo to Kristiansand is a major and necessary national task, with large local contributions in many places. The socio-economic adverse effects of not deploying the main road network as quickly as possible are intrusive. It is enough to recall accident statistics and the well-documented needs of industry for better roadside solutions. Against this background, it is interesting to note the minority proposals in this case, from the proposal of the Progress Party to refer all the additional expenditure to the State budget — wanted by most of us, but hardly realistic in order for Vestfold to get its way in 2007 — the second is a proposal from the Socialist Left, which is a pure obstruction of the whole road project, where one actually wants to train the whole of the road by imposing on the Government a comprehensive investigation involving not only a minor three-field road solution, with the same cows and today's environmental disadvantages, but a simultaneous investigation of the Westernfold rail system. Unfortunately, this is a proposal that is far from solving the reality of business and road users encountering each day along the E18 in Westfold. In fact, the Western fold society doesn't need any more investigations, it needs more roads. In view of the challenges that remain in connection with the further development of the E18 in Westfold, I regret that no more parties can gather around the pragmatic instruments, but find the occasion here more suitable to ameliorate political principles and trade unionists, while environmental hardships are growing, accidents continue and industry is struggling. Fortunately, it is a solid majority in the Committee and the Council that ensures that very important and long-awaited road development can now begin. I hope that we can be inspired by the fact that the cooperation problems that may exist locally and even a little more regionally can be cleared up, so that progress and funding for the further development of the entire Westfold, and not least for the most strained section between Langåker and Bommestad, can now come to Stortinget's treatment without further delay.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e658	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e661	Finally, we have come to the conclusion that the development of the E18 can continue in Vestfold, and that is why several of us Vestfold representatives come here in a row. The Christian People's Party is satisfied with the 33 km that are extended in Westfold up to Kopstad, and we look forward to continuing the development of the four-field road to Gulli. But the expansion can't stop there. «E18 in Westfold must be considered as a complete transport system», says the proposition. And the standard in the southern part of the county is not adapted to the traffic volumes today. Therefore, many serious accidents occur each year and the environmental impact on the local population is considerable. In particular this applies to Langåker-Bomstadt. I am pleased that the majority support the Government's proposal, and it has noticed that it aims to extend the entire E18 through Vestfold to the four-field motorway. This must be given priority in the national transport plan, both for the local population and for the business community. After all, the size has adopted a zero vision for fatalities or injuries in traffic. The extension of E18 to the four-field motorway will contribute to this. It proves the finished stretch in the northern state, where there has been no killed in the last year. It is expected that the new route will reduce the number of fatalities and damage by between 70 and 90 pst. in relation to today. And that's a lot, especially when we know how many there are that have been killed or damaged on that stretch in the last few years. We have to do everything we can to simplify this. The Christian People's Party wants to put road safety in the high-seat. SV talks about competitive advantage and rail and indicates that the number of passengers on the Westfold Railway fell in 2002. I agree that this is regrettable, because it is very environmentally friendly and also comfortable to take the train in Westfold. That is why, among other things, it must: money is allocated for double tracks on the Barkåker-Tønsberg route, so we don't have to wait for the opposite train and thus be delayed, as I experienced last night. Because when this is repeated, it is short to go from train to car. But I would like to remind you that the government is proposing billions of funding for the Asker – Skøyen development, which is now important, so that the Vestfold track can also be reached right up to Oslo. It's especially important for commuters, as there are many of them every day. Betting on the railway in Westfold is important, but we can't leave this as an argument for not expanding the E18. With so many killed and injured every year, we have to do this expansion to get the numbers down. Three-field road with middle parts is not forward-looking. It's just counting cars per. Today, you see. In addition, we have experience with that on certain sections today. It's a temporary solution. The Christian People’s Party is pleased that we will now lead the E18 forward to the four - lane motorway in Westfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e676	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 306]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e692	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e699	Document No 8:130 concerns the development of E6 between Trondheim and Kirkenes. The proponents of the Progress Party ask the Government ‘promoting proposals for a plan of progress and additional funding other than the current transport budgets, for the development of E6 on the Trondheim-Kirkenes route. The plan shall be based on the four-field motorway from Trondheim to Steinkjer, the two-field motorway standard between Steinkjer and Kirkenes, and with capacity in locations with more than 10000 traffic, financed by the State budget and completed by 2015.’» [[WHISPERING]] The proposal by the proposers is based, inter alia, on: that the E6 between Trondheim and Kirkenes has an unconnected road standard, from relatively modern straight wide two-field motorway sections with good access to narrow, curved, old road sections with an unfortunate mix of all road users. In addition, they point out that it is a State responsibility to ensure that the road network in Norway is adapted to the transport needs. All that has been said now is it's not hard to agree with. E6 is and becomes the main artery. However, the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, would point out that the proposal in Document No. 8:130 for 2002-2003 will have a strong impact on future transport budgets and on priorities in the forthcoming national transport plan 2006-2015. The majority will therefore not address the realities of the proposal but refer to the consideration of the national transport plan 2006-2015 and future budget. I think it is a little strange that the members of the Progress Party come with this matter now. There has been, at least as I see it, a broad political consensus to wait to see everything in context when evaluating the national transport plan. It has also been mentioned here today that you should see it when you are ahead of the evaluation of the plan, which is due to start in 2004. So I have to say I'm a little surprised that the Progress Party wants to deal with this matter in such a way. I think it's important that you get the opportunity to see everything in context. And as I said in the introduction, E6 is the main artery. We have to have a bet on road projects, but we have to see it in conjunction with both road, track, aircraft and what's going on by sea. Finally, I would recommend the majority vote to Document No. The 8th proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e719	The rapporteur is amazed at the fact that the Progress Party has presented the proposal we are discussing today. He thought there would be an agreement to see this in context. But that's exactly what the Progress Party has done. We've seen E6 in context, and we've seen that connection from the Swedish border up to the Churchnes. We have presented a Document No. Eight proposals on the Oslo-Svinesund route. We presented another Document No. Eight proposals for E6 Oslo-Trondheim. And now we've put forward one of the E6 Trondheim-Churches. That's what I would call seeing this in context and being a little bit forward-looking. This proposal, and the two previous proposals, are based on building an E6 that has a good and coherent road standard. The part that is being dealt with in the document today has some straight and good distances, with wide two-way paths that are useful, but it also has narrow, curved old road sections, where a mix of heavy transport, walking, cycling and common drivers. The road also has a very bad regularity winter time. We believe it is a state responsibility to ensure that the road network in Norway is adapted to the transport needs. We believe that this is absolutely to see our main pathway in context, and therefore this is the third Document No. the 8 proposal in the case of E6. In addition, we regret to say that Norway has the worst road network in Western Europe. And if we compare ourselves to several Eastern European countries, we also get the jam out badly. Even developing countries are betting on better roads. I have just returned from South Africa, a country to which we welcome un-help. New, modern, not four-field, but six- to eight-field roads are being built across the country all the way up to the borders of Mozambique. So even though we're one of the richest countries in the world, and in addition, as I said earlier, 44 billion kroner from the drivers, it's only a poor 12 billion dollars that goes out to the road network. In addition, we're running and bombing everything. We're not even in the vicinity of using half of what we're taking from the cars, on the road network. Finally, I would like to address the suggestion made on page 2 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e730	Thore A. Nistad has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e733	Today we are going to re-examine a Document No. 8 proposals from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of That's not the first thing Nistad said. In a short time, we have received proposals from the Progress Party on four fields: Oslo-Trondheim, Oslo-Kristiansand, Sweden's border-Oslo, the Lista package in West Agder – all of these only with state resources. In the case we have to deal with today, E6 Trondheim–Kirkenes, four fields are proposed for Steinkjer and two fields with motorway standard further. Looking only at the usual two-field route from Steinkjer to Kirkenes, it is estimated that the price is between 30 and 35 billion kroner. The numbers are very uncertain, but that's what's available. Should an extension of the two-field road to the motorway standard, we know that that will significantly increase costs. At the same time as the Progress Party has brought all these document Nos. The 8 proposals will reduce the petrol tax, the diesel tax, the import tax, the annual tax, etc. etc. For me, this is what Ole Brumm says: yes, thank you, both. This becomes unrealistic to me, and especially when it comes as a document no. 8-proposals, without being seen in the context of other measures in the transport sector. I am therefore very pleased that the large majority in the UK want to see this in connection with the budgets or with the treatment of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e740	I take the floor to stress that we agree with the majority of the Committee that this type of proposal belongs naturally to the consideration of the national transport plan, because the national transport plan is to see all transport sectors as a whole. I have not understood that the Progress Party has at any point disagreed with the treatment of the national transport plan. So it's a little surprising that you take parts of the infrastructure and make individual suggestions out of it. I guess that's just some kind of demonstration proposal. I have looked a little closer to the proposal and the framework it has. It is clear from the Ministry's response that implementing this proposal will cost about ECU 200 million. NOK 33 billion. There is no doubt that the tribal road in North Norway on very many routes is poor. You have several miles of road without a yellow middle stripe. There is no doubt that large investments are required in the coming years. The Directorate-General for Road Transport's proposal for a national transport plan, based on the year's framework, has a total framework of DKK 2.8 billion up to 2015. If one is to roughly estimate the upgrading of the main bottlenecks in North Norway, then I think from the Nordic border and northwards – the Helgelandskreuzt, the Riksvegen between Bodø and Fauske, the riksvegen between Narvik and Bjerkvik, the riksvegen south of Alta, Ulsvågskaret, i.e. all the large bottlenecks with which we know it has to do something – it will have a frame of approx. 5 billion kroner. Including Lofast, it has a frame of $6 billion. So it's $24 billion that separates the proposal from the Progress Party and it will cost to take the biggest bottlenecks in North Norway. And we know that rusting up the grid will cost billions in terms of meeting the safety requirements that are now coming, which are very important for North Norway. We need to increase the national road ferries framework by several hundred million in the years to come, we need to increase the effort on fast boating in the years to come, and we need to increase efforts in relation to racial protection – that is, very many sectors and very many areas in the infrastructure that are of great importance to North Norway. And you can ask the following questions to the Progress Party: What do they intend to do with all the other areas that will have a significant impact on communication and transport in North Norway? This proposal seems very little thoughtful. It is presented as a separate document number. 8-proposals, and it was well submitted approximately at the same time as the proposal to upgrade the E6 between Oslo and Trondheim to the four-field motorway, which had a frame of 20 billion kroner. We're up to over 50 billion dollars. There is no link in the policy. It actually illustrates that the Progress Party does not have any coherent transport policy at all. It's based on demonstration suggestions of the type we've seen here. So I just want to stress that the challenge of transport in North Norway needs to be addressed in a context, and it needs to be addressed in the context of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e751	Fortunately, it is not every day that Stortingen takes time to deal with proposals of the nature of the proposal we have to deal with today. Document No Of course, there is no realism in the 8th proposal from the Progress Party, and it is probably very well known to the proposers. I consider this to be a mark, an attempt to get attention, but I am very critical that the Storting should use time and resources to deal with proposals that cannot possibly be serious. The representative of Nistad stated that this Document No. The 8 proposal is to see E6 in context, from Svinesund to the Church, but where is realism anyway in this proposal? In our discussion the Stortinget considered a similar proposal from the Progress Party to extend the E6 from Oslo to Trondheim. That proposal had a framework of about 20 billion kroner. This time the Progress Party is proposing by means of a Document No. Eight proposals to commit to future budgets and national transport levels of DKK 30–35 billion. If these proposals had been adopted, there would not have been a penny left for projects on other tribal routes or highways. But the Progress Party does not have to think about it, because they have probably calculated that the proposals do not have a majority. On the other hand, the proposals are good to point out when the party’s representatives travel around the country and the beach in election campaigns and tell how little willing other parties are to give priority to transportation. It is populism in its most pure form. I am pleased that the Stortinget will not take a stand on the realities of the proposal by the Progress Party. That there are challenges along the E6 on the Trondheim– Kirkenes route, we all agree, but this gives the Stortinget a good opportunity to come back to when national transport plans are to be rolled into spring. Then we can sit down together and see what we can do for this stretch of practical policy. In the meantime, all Desktop Proposals from the Progress Party should be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e762	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e765	Both before and after World War II, until the 1970s, it was an explicit policy to build this country for the future. This would allow future generations to live in a welfare society. The major effort to strengthen business and secure the population was primarily by building a good infrastructure. Unfortunately, it has stopped. The economy and the population are calling for better roads to ensure good transport solutions for businesses and the population, but also for road safety reasons. The response they get from the Storting is a steady decrease in means of transport compared to the total state budget. In the last ten years, the relocation of businesses and the population has continued to speed up, and the reply from the Stortingen on the relocation has been to send more money to the municipalities. Is there anyone in this room who has seen a municipality that has moved? No, it's not the ones that move, it's the business, the businesses and the population that move. And why are they moving? Yes, because businesses and jobs are being laid down and moved to more central areas. And what does the Storting have to do? In the eyes of the Progress Party, you should listen to what business is saying. The committee has traveled all over the country listening to business, and they say, "More road, more road and more road." And they get less way. It is reasonably clear that if we are to reduce the distance constraints that lie in establishing businesses and thus jobs far away from the market, there are three possibilities. One is to lower the charges imposed on the various modes of transport, including: fuel taxes. The second is to expand the infrastructure so that costs are reduced, and the third, to which the majority in the hall obviously refers, is to move the company southwards. For the Progress Party, it is reasonably clear that points one and two have to be dealt with. The E6 between Trondheim and the Churches in Finland has an unconnected road standard with relatively few areas with modern road sections, but many places where there are lots of swings and heavily accident-affected areas. The road has a very low regularity in winter time, and it is still closed due to trailer sweeps and excursions, or because rescue operations are carried out on the mountain crossings. It costs for business and leads to the loss of competition with those closer to the market. In addition, some sections are heavily damaged, such as Grane-Hattfjelldal in the Nordic region. Then it's going to be here from Anne Berit Andersen from the Right framed up a lot of costs that the state is going to get on that very thing. But these are the costs that some people take today. Indeed, it is the industry and the population in these districts who take these costs by increasing costs for business and by burdening the population living in this area with accidents. And then there is clearly someone who does not follow in terms of the Advance Party's budget proposals that are presented each year. But that's what I'm going to get back to in the next three-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e778	First, I would like to say that the representative from the Right, Anne Berit Andersen, actually said everything about the Progress Party when talking about which policy you are pursuing. When you hear the representative Kenneth Svendsen, you should almost think that the black death was the next stop. It's not like that. There's a lot of things going on on on the road, including Nordland, we must be able to admit that in this room. But I agree that it happens too little, and I'm impatient, especially in relation to this with business and in relation to this with housing. I think we all have to agree that betting on E6 is important. E6 is and will be the main artery. Then it's also that when Kenneth Svendsen talks about the budget, and you get back to it in the priorities, Kenneth Svendsen and the Progress Party try once and for all to avoid the reality, that you've been on the budgetary agreements that have been in Stortinget for quite a long time, and that means that you've been a supporting party for that budget, including the budget for transport, which is here today. So it's almost like once you've been on a budget lap, you really start over, you throw it on the boat, and then you don't want to recognize that marriage. It must soon begin to go home to someone that it is, no matter how Kenneth Svendsen and the Advance Party try to escape it. I think I'll finish there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e790	I have, after listening to the debate, felt a need to come to the rescue of the Advance Party. It is entirely wrong when it is claimed that there is no coherence in the policy of the Progress Party. There is no party, my own, Right, including, that has such a clear profile, and a coherent profile, in terms of the transport policy of the Progress Party. It is a consistent policy of oversupply, and transport policy does not cover four areas: it does not include air traffic, not maritime traffic, not rail, but road. And when you claim that business is asking for better ways, it's quite right. Therefore, it is all the more important to assess which road projects are to be launched and in what context. Then first we get more for the money, then we get more value for the money, and we get more jobs for the money. I just have to repeat: it is wrong to accuse the Progress Party of not being consistent in society policy. It is a transport policy that brings the debate on transport to the country of adventure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e797	It is good that someone is able to maintain optimism by bringing people into adventure countries, and it is necessary for business and the population to look at what the Right Party and the Labour Party have promised in their national transport plan, and not to maintain. They're after NOK 2.4 billion when this period is over, plus what was promised in the Sem Declaration, NOK 2.4 billion more – with SEK 4.8 billion they've brought business and people behind the lights, and then they come to us and tell us that we're going to see the whole thing in the National Transport Plan. The national transport plan has been reduced to a poor level due to the fact that what is included in the national transport plan is not being maintained, and the promise is not being kept. When the representative from the Labour Party comes up here and says that we have to take responsibility for the budgetary negotiations we have been involved in, and the agreement we have reached with the Government, I would say we do so. We had the choice between plague and cholera – the plague was the Workers' Party, which granted 200 million. kr less than the Right and the other Government Parties. Then we chose the best for this country and business around the country, because then we got at least a little more money than what we had received if we had cooperated with the Workers' Party, which would have made it even worse for the districts, even for the district from which the representative comes. The Progress Party takes responsibility for the budgetary cooperation we have entered into. But of course, we would have preferred to spend the NOK 5.7 billion extra each year – and show coverage for – in our alternative budgets. That the majority of the Stortinges want to vote down on this, we're going to take the information. But it may be that the progress of the Progress Party continues, and that the aspirations of the people of this country must be taken more and more into consideration. Maybe it's time to permit the government that's sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e806	We're not going to make a foal out of this. I'm not going to ask for the word again – and I guess I don't get it either. But when the representative Kenneth Svendsen almost accuses the Workers' Party of having participated in the Sem-Declaration, it must be a great misunderstanding. After all, the Progress Party is a supporting party for the Sem declaration, so I do not fully understand this. It's possible that we can figure it out afterwards. We will soon be in a budgetary procedure, and then we will have to get back to these things. I think it is important – as I said earlier from this chair – that things are seen in a context. And there is no one – I hope – who is not willing to bet on having good transport solutions. Good transport solutions are also good framework conditions. This applies not only to roads, but to a total package. We will get back to this – in the budget and also in the national transport plan. I think we all have to be willing to take a vow for both the central and the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e817	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 307]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e830	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e865	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Thore A. Nistad, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, from Heidi Sørensen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The proposal of the Socialist Left Party is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with the investigation of a partial wooden road with the middle parts of the route Kopstad – Gulli, and a plan for the improvement of the line on the Westfold Railway that will make the train competitive’.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e891	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «E18 in Westfold on the Kopstad-Gulli routes is being expanded in accordance with the Government's proposal in St.prp. [[Horten-Tønsberg]] [[2002-2003]] No 78 Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The toll company shall be entitled to collect tolls for the implementation of Stage 1 of Highway 4 in Uppland and toll collection on Rv 4. In addition, the tolling company shall be responsible for raising and managing the intended loans. The conditions for the revised toll arrangement are set out by St.prp. [[2002-2003]] No 78 and Inn. [[2003-2004]] S. No 15
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e924	The President assumes that the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left wants to vote against paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-04.ana.ud369e941	During the debate, Mr Nistad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is invited to propose a plan of progress and additional funding outside the current transport budgets for the development of E6 on the Trondheim-Kirkenes route. The plan shall be based on the four-field motorway from Trondheim to Steinkjer, the two-field motorway standard between Steinkjer and Kirkenes, and with capacity in locations with more than 10000 traffic, financed by the State budget and completed by 2015.’ [[WHISPERING]] Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
