ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e52	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e55	The Johannesburg Environment Conference last year confirmed that environmental challenges are global and that the rich countries have a special responsibility to help get the best possible environment globally. We are co-responsible for man-made climate change, and we must therefore contribute to an environmentally sound development of society. On 25 November this year, the Stortinget concluded that the following wording was compatible: ‘Each generation has an obligation to leave the earth to the next in at least as good a constitution as that of the previous.’ The fact that a mass accumulation is behind this obligation provides a basis for joy and hope. More than ever before, it is important that we take the executive responsibility inwards. I am pleased that the constructive budgetary cooperation between the Government Party and the Workers' Party can contribute to the realisation of the Cooperative Government's willingness to pursue offensive environmental and resource policies. In a tight budget for 2004, including: In order to reduce unemployment, we have found room for important environmental efforts. We're increasing the license to clean up the forureina sediment with PCB content in ports and fjords. The opportunities for the fight against gyro will increase in 2004, and the management of biological deficiency will be strengthened. Taking care of cultural memories and places is important both to ourselves and to those who come after us. The cultural memory fund will increase from 6.5 million. to 13 million. kr, and the protection of private-owned stave churches and national cultural memories is strengthened. The leases to the World Heritage Sites Bergstaden Røros and Bryggen in Bergen will also be increased. We assume that the foundation of the Lynggiestret in North Hordland will have a good deal to do with the further development of the center. A joint committee supports the completion of the refurbishment work of the Norwegian Watercourse and Industrial City Museum in Tyssedal in 2004. Between the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Environment, investment in this museum can be fully financed. I want to use it to underline the valuable work done locally, so that one here can pass on knowledge to future generations about an important part of the basis for the well-being of this country, the exploitation of our water resources for energy production. The 2004 budget provides the basis for a target-conscious commitment to sustainable development and provides support to the individual to take the responsibility of the administrator seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e77	At the very end of the debate, it's okay to sum up a little bit. It is interesting to know that some clarifications have been given in this debate, among other things. as regards the views of the Workers' Party on oil and gas activity in the northern regions. Let me quote from the answer I received from the representative Klungland on a reply I had earlier today. There he said: ‘There may be a lot to be said in different places that are still not the policy under consideration. I assume that the representative of Korsberg is of course aware of this." I'm fully aware of that now. It is obvious that the Workers' Party's opinions vary from where the party's representatives debate, and it is great that they stand openly and honestly in this Chamber and admit it. In the case of the Barents Sea and the Lofoten, the representative of Klungland said to the same line: “This means that the response from the Workers’ Party is yes, we have to open up in the northern regions, but we will see the consequences before we decide on it, and before we deal with it here in Stortinget.” So first you say yes, and then you see the consequences of what you have said. I really can't quite understand what the Workers' Party believes in that matter. Earlier today I quoted former energy minister Olav Akselsen, who in his time stopped Nordland VI in Lofoten, while in the Official Journal of Bergen on 29 November this year he stated that he was concerned about the oil industry and the loss of jobs. There he said, among other things:\t\t You can ‘The representative of the Labour Party fears it might be even worse if Steensnæs does not get up and open to drilling west of the so-called Nordland VI field west of Lofoten’ – the same field that he himself has been in to close. And then I quoted what he said at the Intsok Conference, and what the Labour Party Sylvia Brustad said at the Olympic Conference, and then it really doesn't matter, what the Labour Party is doing both here in this Chamber and in other contexts. However, I am pleased that Rolf Terje Klungland admits it. And then the Workers' Party has a tradition of overcoming its own local politicians, and I have to be allowed to quote what the entire political leadership in North Norway says – i.e. state politicians and state leaders. This is from Nordlys Friday, December 5th this year: ‘In concrete terms, we expect the government to take the decision on the resumption of activities in existing licences in Northern Ireland VI and the Barents Sea in the current year, so that our part of the country and our population can meet with predictability and optimism in the coming years.’ I fully agree with that, and I think the Workers' Party should listen more to its people in the northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e111	In the various budgetary debates, much has been said about the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Labour Party. Yes, some have even been happier than others. Today, when the Committee on Energy and the Environment is debating its important area, I would like to express my satisfaction at the budgetary agreement that exists. I think that Mr. Leif Frode Onarheim, in his contribution, was able to raise his eyes and look ahead in an excellent way, presenting Norway as an energy policy force with great potential for leadership in Western Europe, and with good prospects for developing its oil and gas resources in a long-term and environmentally sound manner, and last but not least, the possibilities of gradually taking a greater share of gas resources into use in Norway. The representative Klungland also said it was striking that we are now facing a new era – the hundred years of gas. It concerns the putting into service of the gas, its use as a source of heating and energy and its use for industrial development. A gas pipeline for, inter alia, The South will be able to give us a national boost to technology and industry. Grenland, which is my area, is Norway's largest industrial cluster, with good opportunities for continued profitable expansion if the opportunities are provided for it. The working party prefers to misinform the Government's willingness to regard the pipeline as infrastructure measures. There is no disagreement that the State has a responsibility for the infrastructure when landing gas to Norway. It was underlined and reinforced in decisions taken in connection with the gas notification as this dump was previously treated. However, I am still somewhat surprised that the Workers' Party, with its government experience, does not understand that a matter of great economic impact needs to be assessed and assessed in a consistent manner before a decision is taken. But anyway: I look forward to more domestic gas use, and I look forward to dealing with this matter, which will be presented by the spring of 2004. I started by expressing general satisfaction with the 2004 budget. Finally, I would like to highlight in particular the need to continue and strengthen research into environmentally friendly gas power technologies. It is particularly important for future industrial and environmental developments. And then I want to highlight the Green Hydrogen project, which is going to add 5 million. kr. Hydrogen can become a future exciting and environmentally friendly energy carrier, and it is important and right to invest in such projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e124	It was the representative of Korsberg who made me take the floor, and I am really happy about that. If it is such that someone can misunderstand what I said earlier today, where the representatives of the Workers' Party say something one place and something else, then it does not mean that I have meant it. What is the challenge, and especially for the Progress Party, is to understand the coherence of policy. The representative of Korsberg also criticized me for saying yes to opening in the northern regions, but that we would wait to decide where and when to reach the impact assessment. I understand that the Progress Party does not understand that there is a difference between drilling in the cod hole and drilling far at sea, but I hope that there is respect in the Progress Party too because there are actually people who believe this. That's why I'm glad I got the word again. Neither does the party understand the context when they are opposed to subsidising all energy production in relation to other energy production, and it is also in favour that it is only the taxpayers and the state that do so in relation to CO2 management. But CO2 management is not really a problem for the Progress Party, because they say it's a strange problem that we're just researching in Norway. Then we realize that the Progress Party may have problems understanding the coherence of the policy behind which the Labour Party and its representatives naturally stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e131	Øyvind Korsberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e134	It's true that I've had the word twice, I've had one five-minute post and one three-minute post. I just need to clarify a little bit. What I started my post instead was quoting the representative of Klungland from the pulpit in his reply. That's what's so interesting about the Workers' Party, you never know what's coming, until a representative has been up in the pulpit and said what's to be said, especially in terms of oil and gas extraction in the northern regions. We have a lot of examples of that. I don't have so much speaking time that I can refer to all of the examples that I have in that area. Before that, I shall just end by saying that we are going to vote in favour of proposal No. 42, from SV. After reading that proposal, we have found that we can vote against it, but we can also vote for it. Otherwise, I would like a good Christmas and a good New Year!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e143	Yeah, it's about time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e146	It was not my desire to prolong this debate, but since my name has been withdrawn, I thought it was natural to say a few words. First to the last article. I thought it coincided with own urism or lack of content when Korsberg says that one never knows what comes from the Labour Party when it comes to oil and energy policy. I want to say that we've been very consistent over the 30 years we've been doing this activity in Norway. I also want to say that once we've closed down in this area, it's because we've been closed in evaluating different opposites of interest to each other. One of the reasons why we have the highest environmental standard in Norway, for example. in this area, one already from day 1 sets tough demands for what to allow in this area. It has also always been a premise that when one is going to have oil activity in Norway, it must be in co-existence with, for example. the interests of fishing, and of course it will also be directed. Then, from the Korsberg side, a big point was made that one in the Labour Party has been there asking for more information in this area, and that one takes the time to wait for that information to come to the Storting, before one takes a final decision as to which area one will be in and open. What's quite clear is that the Workers' Party wants to create a new search area. We have a very serious situation for the Norwegian offshore supplier industry, for the Norwegian oil environment, and we want us to have an offensive policy in this area. I have no faith that the way the Progress Party is moving forward is the way that best can secure this industry a future in Norway. I think it's important that we also take time in the process that's ahead to run the processes that have become several in this room, and one has come to agree that first we have to have an impact statement, and then we have to have a debate in this room. So, of course, it's that parallel to this, the government is working on concession issues. And the tradition in Norway has been that it's the government that operates the concession policy, based on the conditions that have previously been given by the Storting. What has been a bit of criticism from the Labour Party in this area is that one has spent too much time. We have previously said that this question wants us to have clarified during the autumn of 2003, so that it could be part of the 18th concession round. So I'm going to say that what Korsberg is trying to do here, is to give a wrong idea of what the Labour Party's policy is, and then he's also trying to create a conflict that's not there. The working party wants to invest in the oil industry, but this must be done in the fisheries sector and with regard to the environment. We've always done that, and that's what we stand for in this context as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e157	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. One, two, three. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 4 and 5 are dealt with as a whole – and considered adopted. [[See pages 1005, 1018 and 1019]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e186	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to five minutes to each group and five minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who subscribe to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e195	The Communication on tariffs for current transmission that we are processing today emphasises the continuation of the main principles that the system has. However, there are some changes that may seem small, but may affect the perception of the system among users. We've been through a year when power prices have been too high for many customers. This means that people have saved electricity, that companies have reduced their electricity consumption, and that the network has again had less ‘traffic’. We politicians encourage people to save on the world's purest energy, because we have too little of it. We encourage people to invest in forms of energy other than electricity, install heat pumps and otherwise do some incremental work, and that's all right. The working party believes this work is important, but when the balancing of tariffs today works in such a way that customers get a higher network rental year after they have saved electricity, this seems provocative and as a penalty for saved electricity for many. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee takes this seriously. Of course, we are aware that the network companies can even out costs, or their lack of revenue, over several years. But we think that this has to be done in a way that works better than today. After what has happened in the electricity market in recent years, confidence in both market players and political authorities is sluggish. The working party believes it is high time to take the seriousness inwards. We will anchor a robust and secure system, also into the future. So a little bit about fixed, variable terms, input and output rates and, of course, k-factor and the residual terms of the net tariff. It's complicated things. It's easier to understand than that is to explain. That's why I think I'm just going to say a little bit about the proposal that there's a lower rent in relation to the variable term. Lowering the variable term can initially be timely. This will lead to lower costs for those who use low currents or those who save a lot of electricity. This can in turn make it more interesting to change the energy source, for example. transition to bioenergy, gas, oil or coal. At least it will contribute to the rotation of our electricity consumption. I believe it would be unsocial in relation to those who do not have much to save: small children's families, industry and customers who do not have an alternative to electricity. At the same time, it will lead to greater fluctuations when the power consumption drops. This year, the consequence of a lower fixed rate last year would have led customers to an even higher network rental this year. The majority of the Committee believes that today's system will bring about a more secure and robust system into the future. Finally, I am pleased with the broad political consensus that it is in relation to the tariffing of our network. The Labour Party believes that such an agreement will also be in line with our proposal for two-way communication in the future. We're looking forward to that day.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e208	Networking, in the form of the transport of electricity from the producer to the consumer, is a natural monopoly, where, unlike the production and sale of power, it is difficult to imagine a market with effective competition between different actors. Any electricity subscriber is dependent on a particular network company to have the electricity delivered through the mains and has no alternatives, except for any other energy sources. Any monopoly activity represents a special challenge, both in terms of optimal operation and in terms of market orientation towards customers. Just because this is a monopoly activity, it imposes on the authorities an additional responsibility to verify that the network operators do not use their position as monopolies to the detriment of consumers. The same responsibility, of course, rests with the network companies. In today's system, companies are provided with their income framework by the NVE, and the same body also imposes requirements and exercises control over the companies. Our national energy supply is almost exclusively based on hydropower. In a dry year of last year, low power generation, due to low water in the warehouses, resulted in high electricity prices, which in turn reduced consumption. In this way, we can say that the market turned out to be working. One of the consequences of our reduced power consumption is that some network companies have increased network rentals to cover their fixed costs, sometimes with a very high number of charges. For customers, this is very unreasonable. More people feel that they are being punished to respond to the government's call to save electricity. There is no evidence to suggest that the network companies have not complied with the current legislation, but there can nevertheless be some question about the wisdom of increasing network rental as dramatically as some have done, at a time when this comes at the top of generally high electricity prices. The income framework of the network companies defines the maximum income of the companies per. years over a five-year period, and this should contribute to the fact that companies already have the possibility of making adjustments over several years under the current system. The right considers that it must be a goal for the network companies to have the most stable price evolution possible. This, of course, makes great demands on the network companies in relation to both planning, maintenance, initial investment and operation. A modern society like Norwegian is completely dependent on the safe and continuous supply of electricity. Among other things, we have in the last 24 hours, what weather may result from power failure over a relatively long period of time for many subscribers. Therefore, it is important that companies have an income framework that takes into account the necessary maintenance tasks both on the network and in relation to clearing along the lines, so that three cases are avoided during stormy periods. The right is behind the majority of those who want to have the NVE legislation reviewed with regard to the approval of the annual income framework of the network companies, in order to make the system even more accurate and to be able to balance costs better. The tariffs for the distribution of electricity should be designed in such a way as to signal to the greatest extent possible the efficient use and development of the network. The right considers that tariffs should continue to consist of two elements: a fixed link and an energy link that varies with consumption. The ratio between these has been discussed. On the one hand, the costs associated with the main power supply network are determined costs that do not vary with the consumption of the customer. The loss of power through the network as a result of the individual customer’s energy consumption is marginal. The distribution between the fixed link and the varying energy level that customers get on their bills does not reflect this. The consideration of a socio-economical correct distribution between the fixed link and the variable link should therefore be given to a higher fixed link. A higher fixture would reflect the real cost picture. Moreover, such an option would not result in such a variation in network rental as is experienced by many today. Others, in turn, call for a lower fixation than today, in order to encourage customers to use less power. The Communication discusses these issues and, like the majority of the other parties, the view that a higher fixation will have adverse distribution effects, as pointed out in the Communication. In addition, a variable energy link makes it possible to make comparisons between companies, so that we get some kind of gap-stick effect. This is not an immaterial moment in a monopolistic industry. Today, we have a balancing system that compensates for huge inequalities in transfer tariffs in this country. This grant is provided to reduce differences in transfer costs due to natural circumstances. The grant is granted above the State budget and will amount to 40 million for the next year. kr. This balancing mechanism is supported by the right. It is accurate in that it gives direct results at lower power prices to customers in the areas covered by the scheme and it is easy to manage. However, the right underlines that the grant has to be granted in order to balance the difference in determined costs based on natural circumstances and does not contribute to reducing the incentives of network operators to operate cost-effectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e246	For a longer time, the Progress Party has called for a review of the network tariffs in Stortinget. Already during the discussion of the energy communication in spring 2000, we proposed this, but unfortunately we did not get a majority. Only two years later, during the treatment of Statnett's organization, an overall opposition went together and asked the Government to promote a separate case on this topic. The government first made a failed attempt in the budget last year, but the opposition demanded a better decision base and sent the matter back. But now at least the matter is for treatment. It is important to keep focused on the situation of the country's electricity customers, and it is particularly important to keep an eye on the activities of the network companies, all the time they are in a monopolistic situation. The network companies’ income frameworks shall be approved by the NVE in accordance with certain criteria. Some broadcasters believe that these criteria are very strict, while others are of a different opinion. It is therefore important to review the regulatory framework of the NVE in this area, in order to make it more accurate, to balance costs better and, at the same time, to impose stricter requirements on efficiency and cost control. I am pleased that Stortinget is asking for such a review. However, I find it strange that the wording of the Progress Party on cost control and efficiency is not included in the majority proposal. But it should of course be nice to remember this next time the debate on the network tariffs appears in the media. However, it is good that a unanimous committee points out that the cost allocation needs to be improved, so that the annual tariffs for customers are reduced. It clearly gives negative incentives that customers experience being punished with higher network rentals when they have followed the call to save electricity. I therefore hope the Department and the NVE will find solutions that provide much better results. So two-way communication. The Progress Party sees obvious advantages in using two-way communication. Firstly, customers can trade electricity at the times of the day when the current is the cheapest, and in addition, this can provide clear benefits with power balancing in the network. In our opinion, it must be a voluntary offer to the power customers whether they want to use two-way communications or not. And the cost of two-way communication in the network has to be distributed between the network companies and the power customers, i.e. those who have the real benefits of this. However, it is also important to focus on safety and to impose strict requirements on fire safety in so-called remote control of electrical appliances. In this connection, I refer you to the press release of the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness last week, which is also published in a number of national newspapers. With this, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e263	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e266	The storm in the last few days has led to a power failure that has affected thousands of households. Even more days after the storm has passed, many in the East still have no electricity. Our society is totally dependent on permanent power supply, and decoupling over several days as a result of rigid to strong cooling is totally unacceptable. This has illustrated the need for increased investment in the network, necessary maintenance and preparedness. A report by the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness dated 1 October 2003 states: ‘We have seen with concern that network operators are increasingly using less resources in these areas. The result could be more frequent outcomes of parts of the electricity supply.’» This situation, together with what we are discussing today in the first place: the importance of price balancing between the partly large geographical variations in network rentals, illustrates major weaknesses in the current regulatory regime, where population density, topography and climate, and the policy of the network companies towards different customer groups are crucial for the price the customer is paying in network rentals. There is reason to point out that the majority of the strategy on continued subsidies to the State budget has so far not resulted in network tariffs being approximated, as indicated in the notification. Moreover, such a scheme is not robust and will at all times depend on the desire of the majority of population to use sufficient funds for this purpose, which has so far not been the case. The SV therefore considers that a thorough investigation and debate on these issues is necessary in the context of the preparation of a new regulatory regime in 2007. SV has through Doc. No 8:66 for 2002-2003 proposed setting a low maximum level for the fixed level in the network tariff. A letter to the Committee on Energy and the Environment dated 17 November 2003 from the Landsförbund of A/L Norske Boligbyggelag points out that: «the network companies place the payment for lease on a fixed-term basis. The consequence of this is that a system is actually established in which the total price of grid rental and electricity is reduced by increased consumption.» The letter from NBBL illustrates the need for SV's proposals: ‘The government asks the Government to set a low upper limit for the fixed link in the electricity grid to stimulate power saving and improve social distribution.’ SV believes that it is right to have a two-tier network tariff, where the fixed to a large extent reflects fixed costs and the energy link reflects a great deal of variable costs. It is important that consumers transferring parts of the energy use to non-current energy carriers should achieve a notable savings in electricity billing. Furthermore, it is important to find schemes that do not result in very high electricity billing for those living in small apartments due to high fixed charges. It is therefore appropriate to provide for the most cost-effective distribution of fixed costs in the network lease. Consumers avoiding high power consumption during periods of very high network loads should be able to have a lower fixed point. On this basis, we agree with the Central Party to propose the following: ‘The Government is asking the Government to consider introducing a template for determining the fixed link in the network line related to the actual power demand of the individual subscriber.’ Finally, I would like to remind you that two-way communications in the mains network will facilitate progressive electricity pricing. In a letter to the Committee dated 3 February 2003, the Minister of Oil and Energy confirms that the large-scale efforts of the Landsforenings are not a test of progressive pricing, nor would it be an assessment of the potential socio-economic benefits of such pricing. Nor has such an assessment been carried out in St.meld. No 41, which we are now discussing. I therefore hope that the Council of State will note that there is a majority in the Committee that just refers to this link by referring to the examination of the revised national budget before the summer of 2003, where it states in the opinion of the Financial Committee: ‘The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Right, Christian People’s Party and the Left, records that the Government has not followed up the Storting decision to propose models of differentiated electricity charging. The majority propose the creation of a new and wide-ranging selection of representatives of electricity suppliers, distributors, network operators, as well as representatives of consumer and environmental organisations. The majority also refers to the Workers' Party's proposal Document No. 8:139 on two-way communications that will allow consumers to influence their own electricity billing.’;» [[2001-2002]] The signal given is that two-way communication also necessarily has to be included in the work of the two-price committee, and we expect that this is something that is being followed up. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions that SV is behind in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e309	The representative, Mr. Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, has taken up the suggestions to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e312	The setting of electricity prices and tariff rates for electricity transmission have had an extra strong focus in the last year. The low rainfall in winter 2002–2003 coincides with long-lasting severe cold in the whole of the Nordic region. Power prices rose to new levels, and more and more users became interested in how they collected the costs of the current bill and the various links in the transmission tariff tab. There are many entries in the processing of this message from both operators and users. Most people think that there should still be an energy link and a fixed link. The energy link should be established on the basis of the marginal loss by transporting power in the network and varying according to consumption. The terminal should initially reflect its costs with the expansion and operation of power supply to consumers. But for a number of reasons, there is room for flexibility in the distribution of costs between the energy and fixed link. The advantage of having a high fixation is, among other things. that the costs of renting on the network would be attributable even if the power consumption varied. The disadvantages of having a high fixed link are that it doesn't stimulate saving power, and besides, for customers with low consumption, renting will be significantly higher per. kWh than for customers with high power consumption. The advantage of putting the majority of grid lines at the energy level is that it provides support for saving power, or in another way: to use energy in an optimally environmentally sound and resilient way. A disadvantage will be that the prices of on-line rentals will vary with the power consumption and will be difficult to calculate. It is also important that tariffs for the distribution of electricity are designed in such a way that, to the extent possible, they provide for efficient use and development of the network. It's about making the cost image for renting webs so simple that most users understand it. It creates trust between the customer and the supplier. The Christian People's Party and the Government Party are concerned that the online companies' annual revenues and income frameworks are becoming more accurate than they are today, so that the costs of subscribers are as stable and predictable as possible. At the same time, network leases must be designed to enable consumers to have an environmentally sound and efficient energy consumption. The size of the grid today lays the main principle for the calculation of the combined grid lease with the energy link and the fixed link. At the same time, it's worth 40 million. kr as compensation for those who have the highest costs of renting on the Web. We look forward to the government's review of the regulation of rents, which will be presented in the revised 2004 budget. Then Stortinget will have a new opportunity to discuss online rents, after the government has shed light on the many facets that come out when online rents are on the agenda. We also get a first review of two-way communication in this case. EBL and NVE have a two-way communication cooperation project to be completed in the summer of 2004. The government does not want to set additional requirements for the development of two-way communications beyond the installation of hourly metering by consumers with consumption above 100000 kWh. A comprehensive committee sees the benefits of using two-way communication. However, the majority will wait to decide on the use of two-way communication for the evaluation of the test project.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e331	St.meld. No 41 is a response to a mission from the majority of the population in the context of the treatment of the budget for last year. The majority asked the Government to promote a case on different network pricing models that meant price dithering on network rentals, while being simple and robust towards change. It is easy to convey that message, but in practice it may be somewhat more difficult to find simple and good solutions. The message recommends the continuation of today's system of net tariff ad valorem subsidies, where the State budget deficit grants an amount to reduce the absolute highest net tariffs in the country. The Central Party fully agrees with this. The aim is to reduce transfer costs in locations in Norway where costs are very high due to topography, climate and industrial and residential conditions. The model is both control neutral and adjustment neutral. So it doesn't affect the company's arrangements, and it's not a matter of making tactical adjustments. The amount goes directly and, in particular, unabated to the network customers. This is really a rigorous and good arrangement. Calculations show that a budget of between 40 million. SEK 60 million and SEK 60 million per year will have a good socio-economic impact and will significantly offset the transmission costs of those parts of the country with the highest network lease. It is also interesting and important to note that calculations show that the network companies in which the network customers have received compensation are no less efficient than comparable network companies. The message emphasises that tariffs should be designed in such a way as to give as much indication as possible of effective use and development of the network. The energy axis of the grid line shall reflect the load on the network, i.e. the value of marginal grid losses resulting from a change in the amount of energy transferred. The fixed link shall cover the fixed costs. The centre party believes that it is appropriate to have a two-tier network tariff where the fixed link largely reflects fixed costs, and the energy link largely reflects variable costs. It is important to stress that consumers who convert parts of the energy use into non-current energy carriers should achieve a noticeable savings in electricity billing. It must be important to find schemes that do not result in high levels of billing for those living in small apartments and using low currents because of the high level of the network tariff. It has to be, for example: the difference between a ski centre, which for periods has high power consumption peaks, and a family, which may only use power to light and load the grid slightly. The centre party, together with the SV, therefore makes a proposal that a maximum cost-effective distribution of the fixed link in the network lease should be envisaged. It is precisely that consumers who avoid high power consumption during periods of very high network loads should be able to have a lower fixed point. Then I would like to refer to Document No. 8:66 for 2002-2003, by SV. I may have a sense of the SV's proposal that the network link should have a low upper limit. But I think it's getting too unstable. It will also mean that the energy link has to cover more of the grid. For example, this year we have. See, when people save electricity, this has led many companies to increase the energy link in the grid. It's very unfortunate for the consumer. Power consumption is falling, but the bill is increasing because network leases are increasing. The fixed link should reflect how much one actually loads the network. In the case of two-way communication, the Centre Party considers that everyone should be given the opportunity to use it. In the first place, it is most urgent to get started with the largest customers. Two-way communication is a good tool for several purposes, both to see the load on the network and to have the ability to save electricity. The centre party is behind the majority, which wants to review the NVE legislation to make the revenue framework of the network companies more accurate and streamlined.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e352	Today's papers cover two themes: network rental balancing and two-way communication funding models. The notification shall also address Document No: 8:66 for 2002-2003, where it is proposed to set a low maximum level for the fixed link in the network lease. This approach shows that the focus of the Committee has also been on network rental issues other than those addressed in the Communication. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the Government's view of the main principles of tariff design. Tariffs shall be designed in such a way as to signal to the greatest extent possible the efficient use and development of the network. Several of the posts have been embossed, and I am pleased that there seems to be a broad uproar. This is also in line with the main principles of the Energy Act and related regulations. Furthermore, emphasis should be placed on the simplicity, comprehensible and transparent of the system. In general, no attempt should be made to achieve more than one objective by a single instrument. Furthermore, the view of the majority implies that the proposal to set a low maximum limit on the fixed link has not been accepted. Next year, 40 million will be used. kr over the budget of the network lease balancing mechanism. This amount was doubled as a result of the negotiations with the Labour Party in the budget agreement. I think that gives a good distribution. The increase will contribute to the inclusion of more consumers in the scheme and to an increase in the number of those currently receiving it. The decision today I also take as a signal that the Storting is positive to the way this scheme works. I think it is very understandable that many people react to the increase in network rentals of certain network companies in the last year, especially in relation to the high power prices we experienced in the last winter. I also do not think the time for the increase of the network rental is particularly well chosen by many network companies. At the same time, I understand that the network companies want to take over the revenues to which the regulation provides access, which are also necessary to maintain good quality in the network. This results, among other things, in: a better basis for implementing the necessary network investments over the years to come, thereby ensuring proper operation. However, I expect the network companies and owners to have an overall perspective, for example: to create confidence in customers when they define their network lease strategy. I assume that this situation has been the basis for the Committee now asking the Government to carry out a review of the NVE legislation in this area in the context of the revised budget for 2004. Of course, the government will do that, and I also understand that the Storting wants to discuss this a little bit more closely. I fully agree that it must be a priority task to seek the most stable price evolution over time, while giving the best possible signals of energy efficiency, as several speakers have said today. The last theme of the message was two-way communication. The notification should not include a full assessment of two-way communication, but an assessment of different models of funding for a voluntary two-way communication mechanism. There is no disagreement that two-way communication has a future in Norway. I have not chosen to take a final position until projects on this end next year. We have to recognise that there is still uncertainty about this, and we need to avoid any claims and leads from the authorities being exposed to misinvestment. But I would like to stress that my attitude towards this technology is very positive, and it is also undoubtedly a technology that comes. Otherwise, I point out that two-way communication is also the subject of the big message about security of supply for electricity that the government intends to provide just before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e370	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e373	The NVE has today been out criticising some network companies because of what happened during the storm a few days ago, that the flow has not returned to the house and customers within an acceptable time. I assume that the Council of State is going to follow up the NVE's criticism and thus ensure that in the future we can avoid such long periods where people are out of power. I want to link a comment to what the Council of State said about changing the web lease quickly. The Council of State said knowingly that he had confidence that the network companies would take care of this. Well, that's why the committee said it in the vote, that they haven't done it this year. I hope the Council of State can answer that a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e380	On the first question, about the network that is down to a lot of customers, and that it has taken a long time to fix it again, I have a great understanding of the difficult situation it creates. At the same time, it is important to characterise this as a very special situation. The quality of the Norwegian network is quite good, at least if we compare ourselves with many countries. But it's clear that we have to look at the reason why it takes so long. I want to show that it was more than rigid to strong spherical, as was said in an article here. This was an extraordinary situation, with extensive damage. I have noticed that both the NVE and the Consumer Council have engaged in the matter. I'm glad. I will promise to follow up on the NVE as well. Let me say that I said in my post that I understood customers who get frustrated when the network lease increases when the power price is high. But I did not say that I trusted that the network companies would sort things out. I said, ‘I expect, however, that the network companies and the owners have an overall perspective’, and that they have a more sensible phase-in of price increases than they have shown in winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e387	As is known, the NVE is required to approve the income framework of the network companies on the basis of certain criteria. Some broadcasters already feel that these rules are very strict, while others experience the rules as absolute to live with – to say the least. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether he is satisfied with today's legislation regarding the NVE's approval, or whether he would like to make this more accurate to the network companies, as they experience it so differently. Then I registered that the Council of State now saw it as clearly unfortunate that the electricity customers felt it was a punishment for the network to increase when they have just responded to the demand to save electricity. What will the Council of State actually do to counteract this negative development?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e396	I'm dealing with what is now a wish from an overall committee, namely to review the tariff system in order to make it more accurate. I'm sure that's what we can do. I think it is good that Stortinget asks for this. I'll be happy to come back to that. It is a monopoly situation to manage the network in this country. It's probably for the best for the customer, but getting it accurate enough and also fair in relation to population density, district, scattered settlement, geography and topography is not easy. I will present Stortinget with the criteria on which the network costs are based. So I hope that it will be clarifying. Perhaps it is also possible to make adjustments that can improve the reliability of the results. When it comes to being punished because of power savings, I point out that some of the distribution effects that have been introduced at the energy level will give rise to an impact that may be difficult to explain, but the Storting has today largely joined the system that is established.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e405	One thing is that people freeze because they save on power. Worse than that, people can freeze in their heels because the power's going to be gone. When thousands of households in the East have no electricity, even several days after the storm has passed, we can be happy that we actually have quite mild outside. There is no obvious now just before Christmas. Decoupling due to rigid to strong spherical is unacceptable. If the Council of State has a different view of recent times, I look forward to him explaining what meteorological diagnosis he will make of what has been. Governments may also like to elaborate on how often they believe that these types of weather phenomena should be taken into account. My question to the Council of State is: What kind of action does he plan to take quickly to stimulate the network companies to make the necessary investments, necessary maintenance and preparedness so that one does not become powerless for several days after having had rigid to strong culverts?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e414	I want to show that the weather situation we had, especially in Hedmark, was quite unique. Fortunately, there are many years between each time we experience our husband. We have seen that those who are working to get the power supply have made a brave effort. They worked the night and day to get this done. But we have also seen the extent and extent of these damage. It's never going to be possible to guard 100 pst. against such a situation. But the important thing is that we have a preparedness for most weather situations. It is intended that the Norwegian central network, the regional network and the distribution network should have it today. I would like to confirm that we are going to go through this situation to see if the experience we have gained in the light of what has happened these days gives rise to increased demands on the network companies. The network companies have an approved budget. Within that budget, they shall ensure both the upgrading and maintenance of the network and its robustness in all normal weather conditions. It also involves harvest and winter storms.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e421	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five. [[See page 1021]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e439	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1021]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e447	Then we go to voting on case No. 1 to 6 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e454	During the debate, 42 proposals were put forward. It's the proposals No 1, 30-40 and 42, by Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 2, by Rolf Terje Klungland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party, 3 and 4, by Rolf Terje Klungland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, 5-7, by Rolf Terje Klungland on behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, proposal No. 8, by Rolf Terje Klungland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party 9 and 10, by Øyvind Vaksdal, on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on proposal No. 11, by Øyvind Vaksdal, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left, the proposals No. 12-14, by Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, 15-29, by Mr Voksdal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on proposal No. 41, from Inger S. Enger on behalf of the Centre Party Proposals Nos. 1–41 is included in the vote on pages 66 to 71, proposal No. 42 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. Proposal No. 41, from the Center Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to exempt Høyanger aluminium works from the increase in the mark-up on the network tariff from 0,3 to 0,8 ør/kWh, as this is the only aluminium works that will be affected by this increase in charges.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e506	Proposals Nos. 1 and 30–40, from the Socialist Left Party, are addressed to voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e1815	Proposal No. 42, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Council asks the Government to submit proposals for the continuation of the restoration of Steinvikholm in the context of the 2005 State Budget.’ The Central Party and the Progressive Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e1834	Proposals Nos. 15–29, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government requests the immediate opening of drilling in already granted licences in the Lofoten area.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government requests the immediate opening of drilling in already granted licences in the Barents Sea.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to refrain from introducing petroleum-free zones in the northern regions’.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up an energy and petroleum research fund of 10 billion. krona, where the yield is used for technological research to improve the degree of extraction, the economy and the safety of the continental shelf, as well as other relevant energy research projects.’;» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the review of the Overall Plan reduces the concession treatment time for large and small hydroelectric power plants.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for technology neutral support schemes for increased hydropower generation’. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to reconsider previously rejected hydroelectric power deployments and to promote its own case to the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that gas power plants in Norway are subject to the same environmental conditions as others in the EEA territory.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up new financial support legislation based on equal criteria for voluntary environmental protection organisations and to promote this as a matter of its own before considering next year’s budget.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that environmental protection organisations that actively encourage or deliberately violate the law in order to demonstrate against legal decisions lose all financial State aid.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to work in international forums to establish its own International Environmental Special Court under the auspices of the International Court of Justice in The Hague.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to promote the necessary measures to reduce conflicts in the establishment of national parks, protection areas and the like.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to stop the launch of new protection processes and to carry out an impact assessment of the protection implemented.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a review of the objectives and use of the adopted and planned protection of Svalbard in order to secure the future of business.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring forward a case with a view to increasing the rate of replacement of the Norwegian car park.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e1923	Proposals Nos. 12–14, from the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 12 sounds: "The extension projects on the Norwegian continental shelf The Grand Council agrees that the King may authorise projects on the Norwegian continental shelf in 2004 under the following conditions:1. The project must not have any principal or social aspects of importance.2. Upper limit of total investments per year project represents 5 billion. kroner.3. Each project must demonstrate acceptable socio-economic viability and be reasonably robust against changes in oil and natural gas price developments.4. There must be ad hoc cover for investments under cap. 2440 Direct economic involvement of the State in the petroleum industry.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to carry out an independent analysis of the capital needs of ENOVA in the context of the evaluation of ENOVA, to give the trigger effect so far, and to assess the setting of more ambitious national targets for the conversion of the energy market in Norway until 2010.’» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to launch a pledged pilot project for the replacement of old polluting wood stoves, if necessary. come back with concrete proposals in the revised budget for 2004.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e1961	Proposal No. 11, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government every two years to draw up its own monitoring report on the ‘Energy State of the Kingdom’.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e1976	Proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, are taken up for voting. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals during 2004 for a significant business fund for Saudi and Odda to compensate for the disadvantages suffered.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the organisation and functioning of the SNO. It is notified back to Stortinget since the budget proposal for the autumn 2004.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e1998	Proposal No. 8, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate way with a plan to strengthen the rights of all persons through the acquisition and organisation of several areas of particular national, regional or local value, and to contribute to the protection and protection of important open-air areas in and around cities and agglomerations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e2013	Proposals Nos. 5-7, from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to take the initiative of the Energy Authority of the Nordic countries working together on actions to ensure the Nordic energy balance and ensure the better functioning of the power market.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Statenet as a transmission system operator has the means to enable them to secure the power supply during critical periods.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to signal long-term and predictability of the tax exemption for recovered energy in order to trigger investment in this area.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e2040	Proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, are taken up for voting. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote its own case on the design of the new electricity tax model in business as soon as possible and by 1 April 2004 at the latest.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for an assessment of the possibility of using CO2 from separation from gas treatment plants and gas power generation in the context of the oil and gas notification for spring 2004 as pressure support for increased extraction rates from the North Sea oil and gas fields.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e2062	Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Centre Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to simplify the concession rules for the construction of small, mini and micro power plants.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e2078	We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e3297	The President shall draw attention to a correction to the proposal for a decision, as set out by the Chairman of the Committee. It's about cap. 1800. Here, the appropriate amount under item 1 Operating expenditure shall be 106 339 000, while the correct amount under item 72 Investment Fund for climate action in the Baltic Sea region shall be 410000. The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e4967	Here again, the Socialist Left Party, the Progressive Party and the Centre have announced that they want to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e5900	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ingvild Vaggen Malvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2 by Mr Voksdal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, from Ingvild Vaggen Malvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to set a low upper limit for the fixed link in the electricity grid to stimulate power saving and improve social distribution.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e5927	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for a review of the NVE’s regulatory framework with regard to the approval of the annual income frameworks of the network companies, in order to improve the accuracy of the cost-effectiveness and to impose stricter cost-control and efficiency requirements. The review shall be carried out by 1 April 2004 at the latest.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e5944	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to consider introducing a template for determining the fixed link in the network line related to the actual power demand of the individual subscriber.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08-2.ana.ud1416e6014	There is no record.
