ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e63	The representatives of Gunnar Halvorsen, Jon Lilletun, Thorbjørn Jagland, Trond Helleland, Per Roar Bredvold, Torbjørn Hansen, Haakon Blankenborg and Kjetil Bjørklund, who have been licensed, have again taken up their seats. Four permit applications are available: from the representatives of Beate Heieren Hundhammer, Finn Kristian Marthinen and Per Ove Width on leave of 3 and 4 June, all to attend the 49th session of the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly, Part I, in Strasbourg from the representative of Knut Storberget on maternity leave from 3 June to 6 June These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the County of Buskerud, Unni Hennum Lie, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen on 3 and 4 June, for reasons of well-being. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Hedmark County, Grethe G. Fossum, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinget under Knut Storberget's leave from 3 June to 6 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For the County of Buskerud: John-Ragnar Aarset and Geir Øystein AndersenFor Hedmark County: Bernt Egil TorpFor the County of Vestfold: Vidar Andersen2. Vidar Andersen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e150	John-Ragnar Aarset, Geir Øystein Andersen, Bernt Egil Torp and Vidar Andersen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e155	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e160	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e165	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings this week. The representative, Rune J. Skjälaa, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e170	On behalf of the representatives of Jorunn Ringstad, Hans Seierstad and myself, I would like to make a proposal to strengthen the rights of the apprentices.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e175	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e189	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e200	I want to start my post by giving honor to the people responsible for the big message we are handling today. The honor goes both to former Minister of Agriculture Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who started work on the communication, to Minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim, who completed the work, and not least to those who have been involved in and wrote it. The notification is very transparent and, in the Committee's view, gives a good picture of the challenges we face in the field of animal health and animal health in Norway. The Committee has spent a relatively long time on treatment. This has been necessary, as there has been a high level of involvement, both from organisations involved in animal protection and from industry organisations and institutions. On behalf of the Committee, there is reason to thank all of those with whom we have had contact. It has not been difficult to get information and detailed information when we have asked for it. This applies to all we have been in contact with. We would have liked to have been even more involved in inspections, but in terms of the amount of information in paper, at least I can fill several shelves in the office. As indicated in the Opinion, the Committee is unanimous in most respects. In some cases SV goes somewhat further in action than the rest of the committee does. They themselves will justify their proposals. An ethical platform leading the further work on animal protection and animal health is an important element of the notification. The platform contains the following elements: That animals have a self-esteem. The handling of animals shall be carried out with care and respect for the specific nature of the animal. This involves taking full account of natural needs and actively preventing disease, injury and pain.People who have animals in their care must have knowledge of the animal's behavioural needs and of its nutritional, social and physical requirements.People who have animals in their care are responsible for meeting their basic needs and for receiving proper help in the event of disease and injury. Animals must be kept in an environment that provides good quality of life.Functional fresh animals – physical and mental – must be a prerequisite for all types of breeding.Before technical solutions are implemented, it is likely that they will not result in reduced animal welfare. New forms of farming must minimise the burden on the animals. This ethical platform is the basis for the content of the notification and for the comments of the Committee. Research, information and knowledge dissemination are important in order to follow up the proposed actions. For a number of animals, research has led to major changes. One example is loose conduct for cows. Who could say 15 years ago that the cows were going to go around the house and lie on the mattress? Several places in the setting, we follow up and underline that knowledge about animal behavior needs is important for animal welfare. That's why in some contexts we have stressed that we, as owners of animals, have a responsibility to acquire knowledge about the animals we own. At the same time, those who sell animals, whether via shops or breeders, have a responsibility to provide the purchaser with the information they need. As the animal owner, one has assumed a responsibility that one should be aware of. For many species there are already regulations and action plans. This applies to almost all of our farmed animals. In the case of family and hobby animals, this is not the case. The Committee therefore asks the Government together with stakeholder organisations for the different animal species, such as: Norsk Kennel Klub and Huskatsföreningen, prepare a template for the way in which information and skills are to be built. This is important because we are concerned that such information should be as similar in structure as possible, and not depend on, for example, the resources of organisations. Norwegian agriculture has low rates of infectious diseases and production diseases. It is important that we continue to focus on this in terms of operational forms and not least on the provision of an advisory and veterinary service to ensure animal welfare. The new Food Safety Authority, which is now under construction, shall take over the responsibility for animal health and animal welfare. The Committee is very concerned that the work on animal protection is firmly anchored at all levels of the new supervision. This also applies to the animals referred to as family and hobby animals. In this regard, I would like to address the concern that some of us have regarding the number of local offices in the new Food Safety Authority. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are still anxious that few local offices will be planned. We therefore hope that the Council of State will follow up what he promised when we debated this last time in the Grand Duchy, namely that this should be assessed. Animal welfare students have been a tradition here in Norway, as a layman. The Government proposes in the Communication that these should be advisory in the future. That's the majority of us disagree. I have registered that there has already been a consultation on changes to the Animal Protection Act in this area. Then I assume that the Council of State will change this. It is for a government council not to be too impatient. It may be worth waiting for the Storting to finish handling the case before sending it to the hearing. Then he does not get a big one that gets a little irritated. So to the individual measures and animal species. In several contexts, the focus has been on handling animals during transport. The reason for this is that there have been longer and longer distances between farms and slaughterhouses. This has led to long transport stages, thus spending longer time during transport. Several mobile slaughterhouses, farm slaughterhouses and local slaughterhouses are measures proposed by the Committee. In the Communication, the government has also focused on how animals are handled in slaughterhouses, and we support the measures proposed by the Government. Fish farming is a relatively new industry in Norway, an industry that has had a massive expansion in its years. From breeding salmon and trout, new species are now being worked on. Early in the phase, the farming industry was characterised by infectious diseases. This has now been controlled by vaccination and good infectious hygiene. However, there are still challenges, and we still see cases of production diseases, such as: grey stars and malformations. That is why we stress the importance of continuing to build up a national competence, and of continuing the efforts that have been made to research in the industry. This is particularly important now that we are betting on new species. The Government points in the message in the areas where it is important to follow up. Bovine animals are an exciting area where there is now much happening, from the forms of farming such as boar poultry, with cows tied and with cuts over their backs, to leaching and mattresses, and the requirement for outdoor living and exercise for at least eight weeks a year. The Government proposes that all operational buildings be operated free of charge within 20 years. The Committee does not disagree that this should be the objective, but sees that those who have just built up new feathers and put themselves in large debt may have problems building new ones within 20 years. We have therefore put forward a formulation on flexibility. We stress that a derogation scheme should be strict and that the requirements for good animal health and animal welfare should be focused when assessing the derogation. I have just visited a new bird north of the country. The farmer called the solution a squabble. The cows stood on a booth with mattress and were not bound, however they had a rope behind their butt that held them inside the booth. These were aired daily both summer and winter, if permitted. He would not be able to build a new poultry within 20 years, as this poultry was just new. The solution for him would be to shut down the operation, which I consider a poor solution. I am convinced that the industry, the Ministry of Agriculture and the animal welfare authorities can come up with rules for exemptions that could work well, even on animal premises. In the case of the pig, an earlier case in Stortinget concerning the prohibition of knuckling has arisen. The majority will maintain the ban on knuckles. The threshing prevents the pig from using the threshing for digging, one of the busy pigs really thrive with it when it is out. Sheep is a species to which there are some challenges. One of the reasons is that the sheep is the animal that in the summer lives the freest life of all our domestic animals. This free life brings some dangers that one should put in stronger forces to reduce. In the notification it appears that approx. 120 000 animals die on pasture each year, i.e. Almost 6 pst. of the country's crew, and most of them are paralyzed. We have to deal with this. ==References== two thirds of the animals are killed as a result of disease, consumption of the toxic plant rome causing the disease everywhere, ticks are applied to the disease, and finally we can mention infections caused by flea larvae that eat into the meat. All of this causes the animals pain and great suffering. In addition, accidents also cause the animals to suffer unnecessarily. This has to be done. Pasture sheep are positive both for animals and for the cultural landscape, but pasture grazing must be carried out under safe conditions and one must be given more effective supervision during the grazing period. At the same time, it must be recognised that there are some grazing areas that suffer so much loss that they cannot be used. In addition, an increase in the incidence of disease in sheep has been recorded. The digestion of the sheep control has so far been too low, and it is therefore difficult to form a good picture of the health of the sheep. This must also be addressed. The industry must be better equipped to make use of the sheep control. So to an area that creates very strong commitment: sheep losses due to predators. The Government has proposed a number of measures to reduce this, and the Committee has spent time on these measures, including: in the hearings. One of the challenges in this debate is that there is so much disagreement about the impact of the measures. While some say that they will be effective only we have developed them enough and gained more experience, others say that they are not usable at all. This applies to both guessing, use of watchdog, fence, etc. The Committee believes that we should give these measures more opportunities and that time and money should be used to further develop them. Many of these measures have been commonly used in other countries for many years. The level of costs in this country has prevented the use of such funds from being profitable. But loss also costs money in addition to the suffering of the animals. The Committee welcomes the introduction by the Ministry of Agriculture of measures relating to the issue of sheep and wild game. However, the majority have chosen to postpone the treatment of this part, asking for all such measures to be seen in the context and for discussion in the context of the monitoring report on predatory policies announced for the autumn. This will not prevent the Ministry of Agriculture from introducing funds into the measures if they are recommended there. The woes of the chickens are a difficult area. Chickens aren't nice to each other when they're many together. But free-range hens have become a concept in egg production, and most consumers I believe look for eggs from free-range hens. Everyone agrees that the target must be loose drift also for hens producing eggs. However, some people consider it to be that loose drift is still not well developed enough for us to say that it is the solution. I have registered that not everyone agrees with this, and in this connection we have received many enquiries during the time we have worked with the message. I have also recorded that the Animal Alliance's argument that loosing is best for the majority of the hens. This means that they also see that not everything is optimal with loose operation. Our answer, therefore, is that more research is needed. Different forms of loose operation have to be tested, and research has to be carried out quickly. It is possible that we should have set a deadline for the closure of cage operations, but we have chosen to leave this to the Government once you have gained even better knowledge and can say which types of unloading are best and which one should bet on. Fur animals are another area in which there is debate and where the Committee has chosen to divide. We, who belong to the majority, have chosen to follow the Government's recommendations that the industry will have ten years to continue to invest in improving the conditions of the reef and the decline. Research is ongoing in this area in several countries, and it is important that industry also benefits from this research. The Committee has extensive comments, and I therefore do not want to spend much time here. Otherwise, others from the Workers' Party will say something more about this later. There has been a debate on whether regulations should not be introduced for the keeping of family and hobby animals. We chose to limit this to the prescription for special dog care. We have also received many enquiries about the Huskat, or more specifically those cats that no longer have a house to go to. Unfortunately, too many cats are left behind by their owners. Respect for the cat is not good enough. That is why we ask the Government, together with the organisations involved in this work, to identify measures – mainly in cities – that can reduce the number of homeless cats. But there's a basis for looking at some of these animals' woes and well. In the hearings, we learned, among other things, on ornamental fish, and that in individual shops a fish can be obtained such as: is coloured and otherwise modified. This is not good. In this respect, I point out that the Government is proposing to abolish the ban on imports of reptiles, and would rather make a positive list of animals that are allowed to be imported. We support the proposal on the positive list, but there is no majority in favour of lifting the import ban. Reptiles like snakes and lizards don't belong here with us. Our climate is nothing for these animals. Then they must be kept indoors in cages or aquariums, and they do not deserve that. The use of animals in procedures has been discussed, and in Norway we use a lot. The aim is to reduce the use of laboratory animals. In Sweden, they have a fund where the funds are used for measures to reduce the number of research animals. We ask the Government to set up such a fund in addition to establishing a national platform for this work. The selection of experimental animals is important and their role needs to be highlighted. They are the ones who hold the key role in this work. Circus animals have been a hot topic in the debate, at least in the newspapers. During the hearing, we saw a small film about the everyday lives of two circuses in Kongsvinger. They were fine, they looked good. But that film didn't show, it was how they were dressed to be as good circuses as they were. The majority of us have probably admitted that we don't know enough about elephants, and so we leave to the Government to assess whether the elephant is going to be part of the positive list of animals that are going to be able to perform in circuses or not. The progress party and SV think they know enough about elephants, and thus have their own comments. I see that time is over, so I'm giving up now. But I'll come back with a short post later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e291	It fully accepts the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e294	I would like to start by joining the rapporteur-in-chief of the process, the positive contribution that we have received from all the organisations that have participated in the hearings, and those that we have visited during the work. It's been more than 30 years since a government last invited the Stortinget to a broad debate on animal husbandry and animal welfare. In St.meld. No 12 promotes a communication by the Government addressing all types of animal husbandry, both long-term objectives and concrete proposals for measures to improve the conditions of the animals. The objectives and measures are derived from the government's view of animals as co-creators and animal husbandry as part of our culture. Animals are an important part of our society and our culture, and have done so in impenetrable times. Humans hold animals to meet the basic needs of food and clothing, but animals and products of animals are also used for a wide range of other purposes. In today's society, we keep animals not least for fun, entertainment and sports, and the uses are constantly expanding. Dogs are constantly being taught up to new auxiliary functions, ranging from detecting leaks in pipelines to helping people who have lost sight. Genetic engineering enables us to adapt and use animals as producers of medicinal products and organs in transplant medicine. Whatever the use, the animal has given up the care and care it gets from us human beings. It puts a special responsibility on each one of us to care for the animals' woes and well. The question therefore becomes what we can allow ourselves, and what the authorities cannot allow the use and exploitation of animals for the benefit of humans. This is difficult because our commitment and empathy we have for animals are different, and because we react differently to different animal species. Species considered to be intelligent on a human scale, such as: dolphins and human apes generally have a higher status than what we can call "stupid" animals. The external features of animals that we focus on often have little connection with the animals' natural behavioural needs, nutritional needs, and their sense of fear and pain. It is such welfare parameters that make it possible to assess in an objective way whether an animal is in good health or not and that enable us to develop legal frameworks and more detailed regulations. The knowledge of animals and the behaviour of animals by professionals has increased considerably. Factology, which is the doctrine of animal behavior, has become a recognised subject of natural sciences. Over the last few years, we have gained increased knowledge of the animals' natural behaviour and needs, and of what external stress and influence can do with their behavior and behaviour. That is what this communication has put on the agenda, and it will help to change the animal husbandry laws and regulations. Our attitudes to animals are about ethics and morality, that is, what is perceived as right or wrong in our dealings with and use of animals. So the question is, what value are we going to attach to the animals in today's society? It's unquestionably said that we add value to the animals because they produce food, raw materials for clothing and a lot of other goods. The question becomes whether they have a intrinsic value, a value in itself. Based on recent knowledge of the animals' natural behaviour, their needs, pain feelings, etc. compared with what is today's view of value, I believe that the animals have both a utility and a self-esteem. It must characterise the practical work of improving animal welfare in this country. There is also an approach that we see is widespread in many other countries. The basic principle of practical management is that it is not fundamentally wrong to keep and kill animals for important human reasons. A study of Opinion conducted for the Animal Protection Alliance a few years ago shows that about 90 pst. the population is positive that we use animals in food production. The important thing is the way we treat the animals while they live, and that the killing is done in the most painless way possible. Sufficient benefit for humans can defend the need for animal care to give up, but even good purposes cannot defend any use of animals. The problem I would like to sum up like this: how much inconvenience and how much pain can it be defended that an animal is applied in relation to the value for human use? If we transfer it to the wording of today's Animal Protection Act, the question is, What is «unnecessary suffering»? The imposition of loads on animals is not illegal, but the unnecessary load is prohibited. Therefore, the most important part of this Communication is that it draws up and evaluates the ethical principles of a new platform. That platform will reflect the attitudes we need to adopt towards animals, and the guidelines we need in relation to the animal husbandry of the future. If I'm going to draw three important points from the ethical platform, this is the following: Animals have their own value and are to be treated on the basis of their own species.The owners must have sufficient knowledge and a clear responsibility for animal husbandry.The animals' environment must provide a good quality of life. As the rapporteur said, there has been a broad consensus in the Committee on the examination of this Communication. Of the shades that we have discussed, I will mention requirements for regulations/guidelines. We have come up with a good wording when we say in our comment that we want the ministry, in cooperation with the organizations, to draw up templates for guidelines for keeping animals, because we know that although we have asked the Government to make regulations, it has been difficult, not to say impossible, to have any system to follow up such regulations. Therefore, it is an important advance that we now ask the ministry, together with the organizations, to draw up a template for guidelines on how to keep animals. I will end by giving tribute to the Council of State for the work done by the Ministry in its communication, and that we have finally got this debate, which has been a broad and good debate. I think I can end by saying that this is a good day for the animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e328	The notification of animal husbandry and animal welfare is a good basis for Norway to be in close proximity in these areas. It mentions proposals and has forward-looking assessments to achieve the set objective of healthy animals in a good environment. Most animal husbandry provides different degrees of detention or restriction of freedom. In this context, it is important to distinguish between captive wild animals and animals that have been subject to long-term breeding. Even the most hardy livestock cannot be lost again because the genetic traits through breeding have caused some significant changes. For these animals, the restriction of freedom will not be negative, because they have difficulty coping without human help. They are saved for the stresses and suffering that wild species are exposed to in nature. It has not been said that it is a necessary solution to shut the animals down with maximum control and deprivation of liberty and to completely eliminate risks in nature. It will be an obstacle to the natural behaviour of the animals and may result in indifference, disease development and suffering. The maximum control, control and containment is not a solution if the welfare of the target animals is well-being. Furthermore, the animal species are not the same and therefore require specific treatment. Each animal species has its own requirements that must be met if good animal husbandry is to be achieved. For example, herbivores spend a lot of time eating and digesting the feed, while predators ingesting food in more concentrated form spend much less time on this task. In return, predators spend more time tracking, hunting and storage of prey. These differences therefore make it a much more difficult task to meet the natural behaviour of predators than that of some other animals. There is a broad political consensus that it is important to identify forms of animal husbandry that take into account the welfare, health and safety of both animals and those surrounding them. Nevertheless, it is important that the measures implemented are based on realism related to the practical and economic constraints that exist. You shouldn't go on chords with animal welfare. Nevertheless, for farm animals animal welfare measures will be part of agricultural policy. Although we are concerned with the best possible well-being, animal welfare improvements need to be balanced against a number of other factors such as production economy, structural changes and income opportunities. On the one hand, good animal welfare can be an important competitive advantage for Norwegian agriculture. High standards of animal welfare may lead to higher costs, but thus also higher prices that will ultimately depend on consumer willingness to pay. Product prices, on the other hand, are currently very high in Norwegian agriculture. Cost-intensive measures to improve animal welfare must not go so far that due to further standard improvements, Norwegian production should be uncompetitive by imports from countries with low standards, countries with little emphasis on animal welfare. The interests of animals and animals are high and increasing both from organisations, individuals and not least from the media. Although the responses that come are mostly well-intentioned and well-intentioned, any action to improve and ensure animal welfare needs to be based on facts and knowledge. We have to avoid that emotional misconceptions get a sense of whether they're never as well-intentioned. If this happens, it can lead to animal disadvantages, risk to people who steal them, and give practical and economic difficulties as a result. To be at the forefront of animal welfare, knowledge is a key word. Therefore, as proposed in the Communication, it is important and sensible to develop an ethical platform that provides a basis for our attitudes to animals and where the requirement for knowledge is central. Different interest groupings will then be given the opportunity to have influence and to make representations in relation to what will guide future animal husbandry. The Progress Party believes that the Government has done a thorough and comprehensive work on the notification, and it provides a good basis for the treatment of the Storting. All animal species covered by the Animal Protection Act have been included in the review, both from an ethical and welfare point of view. We agree with the vast majority of the assessments and proposals made in this communication. We record that the government has not had any easy work. Many difficult balances have been needed in areas where there are strong fronts, contrasts and feelings in the population. For example, this view applies to fur breeding in Norway. We support the Government's proposal not to wind up the fur sector. More stringent requirements shall be laid down for the breeding of foxes and minks. Improved operational systems to meet the animals’ behavioural needs shall be implemented. The target shall be met during a 10-year period. It is accepted by the fur animal nutrition, which has said that it is willing to extend far to meet the requirements. The health status of Norwegian fur animals is very good compared to other countries – the best of the world in fact. This is the result of an extensive research activity in fur animals at the Veterinary College and higher education schools in the areas of behaviour, health, breeding and feed. There is agreement between fur animal nutrition and researchers that there are still major challenges to providing animals with satisfactory natural behaviour. The Party of Progress considers it important to resolve these problems by changing the physical conditions around the animals, at the same time as a breeder of animals showing ability to adapt. Fur farming is a district industry with sales in the world market. Provision should be made to provide the industry with opportunities. We will always have a significant demand for fur. The question is, where in the world is what we want fur production to take place? If the industry is able to achieve its objectives, it should have a future in Norway. There can then be no point in moving production to countries with much lower requirements for fur animal husbandry. It is only in a few areas of the Communication that the Progress Party has different views than the Government, and I will comment on them in more detail. With regard to the proposal for a ban on the construction of cabins from 2004, we agree. But we disagree with the proposal to impose a ban on drifting poultry within 20 years. An operational building has at least a life span of 30 years. That is why we believe that this is a natural time perspective for introducing loose drifts. In general, new construction of poultry will lead to significant investments where economic pressures can be reduced if there is a political willingness to carry out the structuralisation of milk production. In the case of reindeer management, the Progress Party has other measures than the Government to achieve a balance between animal numbers and grazing resources. Emaciated reindeer is an easy prey in the event of predator attacks. Over the last few years, we've been experiencing a significant amount of animal tragedy. The Stortinge treatment of the reindeer management agreement last year informed that, in cooperation with the reindeer management, the department would have a ceiling of 63 000 pure adapted to each reindeer grazing district in the West-Finland reindeer grazing area by 1 April 2005. The Party recommended a ceiling of 40 000 animals for this area by 1 April 2004. We feel it is urgent to implement measures, not least because it takes a long time for the low-bitten to rebuild. In the case of circus animals, we believe that a positive list of species that would be permitted to be presented on circuses should also include distant animals, such as elephants. The Animal Ethics Council has stated that the deliberate attitude and organisation of circus management, animal passports and authorities make it possible to ensure acceptable welfare for these animals. Many veterinarians and animal welfare professionals accept the transport of animals by circuses. It is appropriate to mention that veterinarians carry out frequent and unannounced checks. The Progress Party believes that it is possible to find solutions that combine an appropriate code of good animal welfare with profitable circus operations. The animals must then be given good opportunities for daily exercise, e.g. to move freely in an enclosure. Veterinary and circuses will find practical solutions that increase elephant well-being. At the end of the day: the Ministry will consider not to allow exemption from the ban on kneading on pigs. In this connection, I would like to remind you that the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party of the Budget. S. No 8 for 1999-2000 brought about a change in the legislation that provided for the possibility of exemption from the ban. The reason given by the majority was that free-range pigs were very widespread in Europe, and that the disadvantages, which for these pigs are being prevented by the instinct to dig in the soil, are more than offset by the fact that pigs are prevented from lying in the heel of their children, that they get a better and freer life with less disease and less medical use.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e366	The representative Michael Momyr said this was a happy day for the animals. He's partly right about that. For some species of animals, there is no doubt that what we will adopt today will be a very positive development. We in SV also see that it is very good in what has been presented in the message from the Council of State, and that there are many good decisions we are going to take during the day. But it's not in all areas that we're satisfied. I'll come back to that more later on. I think we need to have a fundamental debate on why we need so much to discuss animal welfare. This is because we have started a rather intensive production in many areas that we humans have created. The way we are today, for example. operates inside the poultry, becoming more and more dependent on maximising profitability. As a result, we expose the animals to greater and greater production pressure. It also happens in other areas, whether it's traffic or whatever it is. It's important that we have at the bottom that the reason we have animal welfare problems is man-made, because we want as much as possible either gain or other things out of animals. That's why it's important when we're discussing this question, that we both have it in mind and ask ourselves the question: shall we continue in this raltic, that it should be milked more and more per cent. cows, that more and more meat is to be produced per. chicken, or that the horses should jump faster and faster? The next important question we have to ask ourselves is: how are we going to be able to give the animals that we have among us, an optimal life from being born to that door? At least we in SV are concerned that we need to find methods that make this as good as possible. Unfortunately, in a way, you do not reach that goal in all areas of the message. So I'm going to start with some of the points that we're critical of. Let me start with the frogs. We're going to make a decision today that says we're going to introduce idle operations within 20 years. We think that's absolutely right. We also believe that it is acceptable that we wait 20 years. But it's not acceptable that we should wait as long as the government and the majority say that the animals should be aired more than today. It is fully possible within today's booth management system that the animals come out a little more frequently. So we're disappointed that you're not adding up to it. Similarly, we are disappointed that the cows still have to stand with so-called cutsters or current over their backs every day they stand on the booth. The load as it is, we seem unworthy. There you could have taken a simple grip. That is why we propose a ban on cuts within a few years, so that the cows can avoid that strain. We are pleased that mattresses for cows have now been introduced. It was ridiculed when people started it, but now there's a warrant for it. We think that's very positive. So over to maybe one of the most serious things in the message. Chicken and chicken production. In this area, the Committee should have gone further, because it is covered by very many animals. The fact that you are not willing to go over to idle operation, but to continue with the production you have today, we think we are very sorry. We also find it regrettable that you do not go in and look at feeding and the way you breed chickens, where they grow about from their legs and have great suffering in the short time they live. The message has not been received either. Then turn to fur animals. Fur animals are a matter of controversy, and the majority of the committee does not want to wind up the pet population, but wants to make improvements. We believe that the improvements you make here are so modest that it won't significantly improve the quality of life of reefs and declines. They're said to get so-called toys in the cages, but I don't think the fox or the mink will be happier because they have a draw to bite in when they're sitting in the tight netting cages. I think that's minimal improvement. At least I don't think it's a happy day for the fur animals. I think they still flag on half a pole, if they flag. Therefore, at least SV will continue to work and fight for a ban on fur animals as soon as possible. We believe that in an animal protection nation like Norway, which wants to be clear that we are an animal protection nation, it is not worth continuing to breed fur animals, at least not in the form that we do today. We haven't said that those who feed fur are barbarians, or that they're animal abusers in any way. We're not saying that at all, because they've adapted to a system, and we're willing to give conversion agents to the fur farmers for ten years, so they have the opportunity to start off with a different kind of nutrition. A new industry we've been given is breeding. Here we have major challenges, as the Committee also points out, by gathering fish into mermaids that are as close as they are today. When slaughtering farmed fish, I think we have major challenges that we really don't see completely the contours of yet. We have been told that there are serious damage to fish that are suffering from breeding pain. We also know that there are many people who question the slaughter methods, and that's why we have a long way to go before we get this all the way on track. At the same time, there's a relatively new industry that we need more knowledge about. SV has no own comments in this regard, but we agree with the Committee that this is an area that we should focus on in the future, so that animal welfare within this new big industry such as farmed fish is properly focused. An area that is not much mentioned in the notification is sport, sport, etc., and its supervision. I know that there are plans on the table to change the supervision of galloping, trotting and other types of sports of the same kind, that the supervisory authority should in some way be left to the actors themselves. We are very critical of that. We want the public to continue to monitor the soundness of what is going on on the freeway and the freeway, and that it is not the industry that is responsible for that type of control. We think that would be very unfortunate. Finally, I would like to address the three proposals that SV has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e394	The representative of Inge Ryan has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e397	Norway is a country that is and has been occupied by animal welfare, and is in many ways a transit country before this important field. We've had an animal protection law since 1935. This has been changed several times over the years. The reason why the Government has now taken up this matter is the need for a full review of the animal welfare situation in Norway. I would first like to thank the President-in-Office for a thorough and good work. I would also like to give a tribute to the Minister of Agriculture who will have a majority today for the vast majority of his proposals. In some cases, this will lead to a better situation for animal husbandry in Norway. It will contribute to increasing attention to the animal situation and to a living debate, which is the best guarantee of animal welfare. Much has happened since the laws were signed, both when it relates to the sight of the animals and the attitudes of animals. In relation to Norwegian livestock farming, major structural changes have also taken place, and there has been a trend towards increasing efficiency, mechanisation and therefore also less contact between people and animals. The knowledge of animals has greatly increased. We have learned more about the natural behavior of animals and their needs, and we have learned how stress and external influences change their behavior and behavior. These are aspects that need to be taken into account when changing the legislation. When it comes to the population of society, it has gained an increased distance from and reduced knowledge of livestock farming in general. However, we have gained an increasing interest in animals from a welfare point of view. From the consumer's point of view, there has been a stronger focus on ensuring that the animals that are the source of much of the food that we eat have had a good time while they were alive, and that they were killed in an ethically acceptable way. This, in turn, has resulted in increasing labelling requirements and information on origin. These are the moves we are looking at in several industrialised countries. All these factors have given animal welfare a very central place on our political agenda. It is both right and necessary that we have a review and an assessment of animal husbandry from a point of view of ethics and animal welfare. It is my assessment when it comes to the ethics and welfare of animals, that a platform is now being set up that will provide a good basis for our animal-keeping and our animal-holding. It is important to ensure that the design of the environment meets the animal’s behavioural needs and that the animals are not subjected to unnecessary stress. Society in general — at least special groups — will have a great deal of attention to address animal welfare issues. This is positive for all of the parties. It provides safety for the animals and enhances the attention of animal owners on such important issues. It is important that we have a high level of competence in people who are given responsibility for live animals. There are some questions in the message regarding the introduction of competence requirements. I believe that the introduction of skills requirements for food-based animal husbandry would be positive. One must see such a requirement of competence in a broader context and primarily anchor such a requirement of competence within basic agricultural training. I believe that the Ministry should consider facilitating the establishment of a training council for agriculture, including: must ensure that current knowledge requirements are defined within agriculture and incorporated into basic education. I think it's natural to work together between the Ministry of Agriculture, the animal owners and the agricultural production institutions to get the best possible approach to future animal husbandry. In the debate on the different animals, the debate on fur animals is of the highest importance. Today it is approx. 1 000 who drive fur animals, and in recent years there has been a close debate about and great attention being paid to the conditions of the animals in these fur farms. The industry itself is aware that ethical issues will be strongly involved in the debate on fur animal husbandry, and there have been a number of improvements in recent years that have led to better relationships. Today the animals are safe, they are fed, and it is more and more common with warm water. There are also a number of other developments that might lead us to say that the fur animals have had a better situation. In the light of the fur animal discussion, we have also had a discussion about man's right to have animals at all. This is a discussion that I think is something extreme. Even in the creator's description, it is established that man is master of the animals, with steward's responsibility. It is a responsibility we should take seriously, with an ethical attitude. I think that with the conclusions we have drawn in our attitude to Stortinget today, we have facilitated a good development even in fur animal nutrition. We have set out certain requirements for nutrition when it comes to the evolution of the years to come, and we have reason to believe that these will be fulfilled. We have also said that when it comes to animal husbandry, we will ask the Ministry of Agriculture and the industry to see if they can be carried out in a more animal-friendly way, by shortening transport time, changing transport methods and changing the way animals are handled. If this is not feasible, live animal settings should be prohibited. In the case of lay-offs, it is a general feature of this message and the proposals made by Stortinget, that one goes over to lay-offs in general, because it gives the animals greater opportunity to move freely. This is a good thing for the animals in most of the contexts, but it is clear that there are certain limitations that make one have to be aware of the unfortunate outcome of such a detoxification requirement, such as bullying of the sick animals and the external stresses that can help reduce animal welfare. But I assume that the legislation is designed to take account of such possible negative effects. There has been a lot of discussion about the final deadline for the introduction of deportation for cattle. According to today's rules, there's a write-down rate of 2 pst. for operational buildings, i.e. one assumes that an operating building should be at least 50 years. It requires even returns on the garden, otherwise it will be even longer. Then it is difficult to meet the same farmer, or agriculture in general, with a demand that relatively new operational buildings suddenly have to be rebuilt after less than half the time. For this reason, we have now presented a proposal for a derogation scheme in the Stortingen setting. A request for a flexible transitional regime or a derogation system to be developed in cooperation with business organisations. A transitional arrangement or a derogation system must be based on the fact that those poultry which are exempted from the requirement to operate freely must otherwise be in such a constitution that they meet the requirement of good animal welfare. One must impose requirements for aeration and exercise, good care and good handling of the animal. I would also like to add that a large number of people in the committee are asking for one more look at the requirement for a place to lie in for bulls. One is skeptical about this, because if a desired location, it also requires care, and it can pose a high risk to the security of the smoker. It is clear that the proposals for improving animal welfare adopted here today could have some significant consequences for the economy and markets, both for agriculture and for others. It is important that we are both realistic and pragmatic in this area, so that we do not make matters so difficult that we go beyond the objective of better animal welfare. We in the Christian People's Party are pleased with the thorough review and update of the legislation we have received, and are sure that this will be in the best interests of animal welfare in the years to come, but we will still have a lively debate to develop a better animal ethical awareness and a better animal health.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e433	Most of the submissions today concern animal protection in the context of acquisitional animal husbandry. That will also be my post. However, it is important to establish the responsibilities you assume as an animal owner, regardless of whether it is for acquisition purposes or the purchase of animals such as family or hobby animals. In this context, I would just like to refer to the statements made by the rapporteur and the approach taken by the rapporteur to the issues of hobby and family animals. There is a significant amount of an overall committee behind this setting. I think that's very positive, because it means that we can have predictability in relation to what framework conditions we have to deal with in the future, and then I think first and foremost about the acquisitional animal husbandry. A number of the proposals will undoubtedly have a significant economic impact on Norwegian livestock farming and Norwegian farming. There is cause for concern about developments in Norwegian agriculture, where the pressure on food prices and structure increases without a corresponding increase in profitability. Expensive measures aimed at improving animal welfare can undoubtedly contribute to our environmentally friendly and decentralised production being uncompetitive by countries producing cheaper and less expensive. Therefore, the centre party assumes that the State contributes financing measures that allow for the investments required by new rules. It is important to stress that animal welfare will depend very much on the agricultural policy pursued. Severe structural changes with large herds and long transport of live animals until the slaughterhouse weakens animal welfare. An agricultural policy that focuses unilaterally on competition with countries that produce food cheaper than us will automatically lead to poorer animal welfare. The proposals available in the case of unbundling, which require the transition to unbundling in 20 years, are likely to be far more costly than those envisaged by the Government in its investigations. The centre party primarily wants a transitional period of 30 years, but as this does not get a majority, we see 20 years of flexibility as a useful alternative to a longer transitional period. The most important thing is that the legislation is practised with the necessary rationale in relation to the situation in which the individual holder is in the foreseen transitional period and that the necessary flexibility is displayed in relation thereto. In addition, in view of the substantial investments made by pig producers through the 1990s, the centre party considers that a phase-in period for the full holding of pig herds is set at too short. Most pig production uses have new dates and buildings, where sows have already been arranged to be kept in bulk during the gestation period. That is why we find it unreasonable that we have set up such a short phase-in period for full leaching in pig production. Finally, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the majority in the Committee refers to the report on animal protection in relation to predatory damage. It belongs naturally there. It is necessary to see the management of predators in an overall context. It is not possible to pursue a predatory policy that deters grazing and grazing in large parts of the country. This needs to be seen in context, and it is necessary to pursue a predatory policy in the future that will enable us to have sheep farming in parts of the country. Finally, since I have some time left, it could be interesting to start a discussion with the representative Inge Ryan about – if now, as Inge Ryan said, mink and tore flags on half pole above the majority position – whether SV's proposal for a complete ban on the same operation would lead to the flags going to the top of the same animals. I'm probably a strong fan of doubting it. The fact that you want to fly in other circles is so your case, but that the mink and the fox will do it, I strongly doubt it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e458	I note with satisfaction the strong support of the Business Committee has provided the Government's proposals for objectives and strategies for the future work on animal husbandry and animal welfare. All objectives and strategies will be pursued to ensure that Norway remains a priority country in animal husbandry and animal welfare. I will work for the best possible cooperation with industry and all relevant organisations to ensure that animal welfare work is well anchored by all stakeholders. A large and important work has started, and many tasks are now ahead of us. Work on a comprehensive review of the Animal Protection Act will be started immediately, and I will work intently to seek to implement the measures correctly and at the right time in relation to the interests involved. A proposal for a prioritisation of the follow-up to all the proposals made by the Government has already been drawn up, a priority which will be coordinated with the underlying agency and other stakeholders. Breeding is a new industry in our livestock farming, a highly growing industry with great potential for further expansion. The welfare of fish is too many of us a new thought, and adds a new dimension to the work of animal welfare. I have noted with pleasure that the Economic and Social Committee supports the view that, as a leading aquaculture nation, we should have a specific responsibility to ensure animal welfare in the aquaculture industry and that the industry's work on animal welfare is followed up in particular. I take note of the debate on the proposal on the transition to drifting for all cattle have created. The measures contained in this proposal are important to improve the well-being of a large number of animals with minimal freedom of movement for up to 10 months per year. I am pleased with the adoption of the proposal and, in cooperation with the industry, will discuss the possibility of exemptions and seek to establish flexible transitional arrangements. The Committee asks the Government to consider setting a deadline for the closure of cage operations for chickens and assessing requirements for access to bathing water for ducks and geese. These requirements will be assessed by regulatory review. I am pleased that the nutrition committee believes that animal protection must be an important element of predatory management and that the preventive measures referred to in the Communication have been endorsed. I note that the majority of the Committee, because it is difficult to see the whole of the predatory policy, wants to deal with all aspects of predatory policy in the context of the announced report of wild game, which has been notified by the Government during the autumn of 2003. However, I feel the need to clarify that the measures proposed in the communication do not interfere with predatory policies. There are measures to improve and ensure the welfare of the grazing animals. A large number of pets are kept in this country, and the number of owners of such animals is much higher than the number of traditional domestic animals. Part of this livestock population is problematic. This applies to dog and cat as well as to other species. I have noticed that the Committee does not support the proposal for an embellishment of the ban on the introduction and keeping of herptiles. We will therefore consider in particular what measures it is natural and possible to apply to try to reduce the widespread illegal imports and keeping of these animals that exist today. The number of animals used in research and experimentation is high in us, and has shown an increasing trend. This is mainly due to an increase in the use of fish as test animals, while the use of conventional laboratory animals is reduced. When individuals are also counted in experiments with fish, the number naturally has to be large. The desire for increased investment in fish farming research easily conflicts with the desire to reduce the number of animals tested. One way to go in order to seek to reduce the number of animals tested and to focus more on methods that do not require the use of animals is the Government’s proposal to establish a national platform for alternatives to animal testing. It is gratifying to note that the Business Committee supports this proposal and proposes increased investment in this area. Improving the welfare of animals in our country will and must require resources, including financial resources. I note that the majority of the Economic and Social Committee believes that costs associated with the implementation of new animal welfare measures in livestock farming should be monitored in the future agricultural agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e490	It's going to be line change. The President makes it clear that the speaking time in the sequence changes is now 1 minute for both questions and answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e493	When you are concerned with animal protection and animal health, you are also concerned with the new Food Safety Authority, because that is what will manage the law gradually. I understand the impatience of the Council of State both in setting up the Food Safety Authority and in starting it, and therefore the laws to follow that the supervision will work after. But I have said to the council once before that haste is trucking, I learned that at school, and there may be a little less noise if he waits a little while to send things out to the hearing. Then I've told you one more time. The last time we discussed the Food Authority, part of us asked the Council of State to assess the number of local offices. I want to ask him, how's that assessment going?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e500	On a general basis, I must express my impatience in improving animal welfare, and will be impatient and follow up all the important decisions that the Storting is making today. In fact, I also see it as my task to do what I can to implement the decisions as quickly as possible. With regard to the special consultation that has sometimes been mentioned here, this is primarily linked to observing the leaders of the Storting as regards the introduction of the Food Authority from 1 January next year, and there will be some titles within our official veterinary services that disappear and need to be adapted to a new organisation. However, it is clear that the conditions that arise during the processing of this communication that affect this will of course be the basis for further work. In the case of local agencies in the Food Authority, the new Food Authority, which is now managed by an interim organisation, has been informed of the signals given by me and the Stortinget during the treatment, and they will set up the number of local offices necessary for proper food supervision. Then a particular number won't be what will limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e507	In the case of the showing of animals on circuses, a derogation shall be granted per. seasonal per month animal species under the Animal Protection Act. As far as I know, there are no regulations in Norway or in a number of other European countries for this, and now a positive list is to be drawn up. The Progress Party believes that elephants in circuses are natural and that there should be solutions for this. We have received input from veterinarians, members of animal protection subjects, the Animal Ethics Council, etc. that good animal welfare should be compatible with profitable circus operations. Will the Council of State seek to find room for elephants, perhaps also other animals from remote areas, on this positive list to be developed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e514	It will probably be that, in a few years' time, when we remember the debate and work on this animal welfare message, many will first come to elephants and the debate on elephants. We remember that there are a very small number of elephants in Norway, and that makes the animal welfare challenge, after all, limited in relation to the many areas where we operate with very many animals. There is an important point that in Norway it is not allowed to live by travelling around and showing animals, but then there is a derogation for circuses. I think it's fundamental right that, in the case of animals that have their natural life in nature, in freedom, and perhaps under very different latitudes, we should still have as the main policy that one should not travel around and show these animals, in a situation that is very far from the animals' natural life. This positive list is intended to debureaucraticize a little bit and make it easier to drive circuses with the animals with which it is natural to drive circuses. Which animals it will be, you'll come up with on the basis of an extensive work we're about to do, after the task and the elephants have been sent back to the Government from the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e519	Governments are concerned that we are going over to idle operations in most areas. This applies, for example: this with cattle/sheep. One also wants to work towards a goal of getting over to idle farming in poultry and chicken production, etc. But for fur animals, it's not relevant to loose drift. What is the reason why fur animals are excluded from all the other goals of the Government in relation to loose drift? Are there animals that need less to go free? Is that why, or is there any other reason why fur animals at all have not been considered to be free to walk, like any other animal?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e526	Let me say that there is no doubt that fur animals as domestic animals are facing the most difficult animal-welfare balances. I do not conceal that when this message was made and the last considerations made, it was precisely the policy of future fur management that was the most difficult to lay for a council of states that is a pet friend and very concerned with animal welfare. Clearly, predators like fur animals, who in captivity for many reasons must have such limited freedom, confront us with a lot of difficult balances. I'm not hiding it. However, when I decided to fall to the conclusion that we should give fur animal nutrition an opportunity to significantly improve conditions within a ten-year period, giving the industry an chord to arrive at a fur animal husbandry that must be said to have much broader acceptance and legitimacy than today, it is based on the belief that it is possible. Fur animals as domestic animals are a very young diet. A lot of that time has agreed to lift up fur quality – you haven't first and foremost looked at the animals' ability to handle being in captivity and deprived of so much freedom, although we can say that the mode of operation means that we have a very good health condition because the animals are away from the ground and largely isolated from each other. But I'm going to – I'm going to promise – be very busy following up that the industry is now getting to grips with this. There are rapid generational shifts and opportunities for rapid genetic improvement. I will also follow up the work on the physical conditions for fur animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e533	The Council of State stated in its statement that he was recording that the Committee asked for the financial consequences of the notification to be incorporated into the annual agricultural agreements. I would like to hear how the Council of State has thought in relation to this challenge, which is undoubtedly going to be quite large both in terms of financing investment and, not least, in terms of increasing costs resulting from the measures now being implemented. That's the one question. The second is access to veterinary services. Reorganisation of veterinary services leads to a deterioration in veterinary services in many districts. This will have major implications for both animal protection and animal welfare. I would like to challenge the Council of State on what kind of action he intends to take to ensure that all parts of the country have the necessary access to veterinary services within the new regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e540	Over many years, the State has contributed to significant investment aid for livestock farmers, not least in milk production, and large investments have been made over many years and with significant public support. It'll keep going. Last year we got a new plan with a significant degree of interest rate support, and with the interest rate level that we're now getting, the interest cost starts to approach zero. Of course, we will further develop the investment instruments needed to achieve this, and then we will have to continuously assess the investment needs. There is disagreement about the cost of this. It's dangerous to see a 20-year perspective for static. There will be many changes, many improvements, there will be a lot of new technologies with new ways of building – hopefully cheaper and simpler ways of building, which will require milk production in the future, it will have to have a sensible economy. So you have to understand some of the dynamics that are in a society over a 20-year period. Access to veterinary services will continue to be ensured through the watch regimes and watch districts that exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e550	Animal welfare is also challenged in intensive agriculture, and I want to ask the Council of State, as I know that he knows a little about sheep farming, about a change that has occurred in farming this year. A lamb released on pasture, as if it were considered to be a good mother's sauce, is mainly taken aside and shall grow a year before lambing is applied to the animal. But at the settlement this year, the production grant for such an animal has been removed. I think it's a concern that a lamb born in the spring should actually bear lambs next year. Isn't that purely animal welfare a problem for us?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e555	It can be too detailed, too, such a debate as this one. It is clear that the problem, which I believe many sheep farmers are carefully considering, is the right thing to do so-called paralysis, that mothers who are not yet fully grown bear lambs when they are one year old. I think the farmers who choose to do that, too, are good enough to know that they must then give the animals a very intensive feeding and ensure a development that goes so fast that the mothers are able to bear lambs already after a year. Many choose it for different reasons, such as: because it is demanding to do so. In the case of the conversions that took place this year, the number of animals will be first and foremost counted when they are approx. 11⁄2 years, which will provide the basis for grants. This is simply due to the introduction of a grant per year. animals that were delivered to slaughter, and we could not come into a situation where one could first count it as a dam on 1 January, then slaughtered it a few days out in January and receive a full grant for it as a slaughter animal as well. That's why the whole number of animals over 11⁄2 years was increased, so there's no change in the situation for the sheep keepers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e562	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e565	Most of the speakers here today have stated that there is quite a broad consensus on the treatment of this big business message, which is very thorough and important, and which is being finalised today. There is also reason to commend the rapporteur for the job she has done in bringing the Committee together for the follow-up to this communication. It will be quite natural in a day like this, after the innumerable consultation rounds we have had, to ask the question: are we going far enough in reforms? Or as others would say, have we gone too far in some areas? There are some small discussions that go largely on a disunity on behalf of the fur animal industry, but also on whether or not a transitional period up to 2024 is sufficient or not. As the broad majority concludes that there is a 20-year transition period, this will be a good compromise. Although Norwegian agriculture is facing significant investments in the years to come, I think this big message is very positive, not least on behalf of Norwegian agriculture. The measures proposed may well be considered by some to be cosmopolitan measures that can be proven to lead to higher costs for Norwegian agriculture, but I believe that with increased focus on animal welfare and welfare, it will show that Norway is a leading country in this area and that we will be more and more able to exacerbate international isolation for the way in which we want to safeguard animal welfare. I also think it's still a long way to go in Norway too – great distances, the kind of operation we have, and the climatic conditions we also have, makes it not an outstretched red racer that makes the animals unisonously cry out in the woods because of this treatment today. However, I believe that with increased animal welfare, those who are going to live on animal husbandry will also be able to visualize a income page that needs to be positive in the years to come. Finally, I am glad that the predatory problem, which has also been in focus, is treated separately, in a separate context where it really belongs. Like the representative, Mr Enoksen, I hope that when we get this report for treatment, we will also be able to draw up clear boundaries in the area of predatory game and animal husbandry – in the certainty that we will be cleared up once and for all in this complex area, because these grey zone areas are very damaging to what is happening in today's animal husbandry and animal welfare as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e578	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e581	First, a small invitation to the representative Ryan. The representative said in his statement that the committee was not willing to go in for hen loosing. That's not right. I just want to repeat what I said: everyone agrees that the goal has to be drifting loose for hens that produce eggs. Then we've said that research has to be done quickly, and that it has to be researched optimally to find forms of loose drift that are good. So I want to say, since this is my last post today, that as the case-rapporteur I have had good contact with a lot of organisations. I want to praise several of the animal protection organisations that have really stood by and given us a lot of information. And as I said before today, I can create a library of how to imagine that most animal species in this country should have it. I'm sure not all are equally satisfied with what the committee is doing today. But I also want to say that work on animal health and animal health is not over in Stortinget. We get the law of treatment, and we're going to work on the work that's done. What has been important to us is that this is a step on the way. We're going to bring with us all the industries that are occupied by animals, that work with animals for the day, and that have as much animal protection and animal health on their program as everyone else. I've learned a lot. There were some of these industries I didn't know anything about, among other things. fur nutrition, and I want to pay tribute to those organisations that have spent a lot of time informing me and teaching me. Then I have a little encouragement to come along. There have been a number of actions in relation to animal welfare – actions that have led to the release of animals that have lived in captivity. This is not the way to hold a discussion on animal health and animal health. The way to hold a discussion on animal health and animal health is to work as most organisations do: have dialogue, contact us at the Stortinget and work together to move further forward in the future. That's my call. Actions that destroy both for the animals and for those who own them also destroy the animal protection case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e592	There's a general acceptance here for animals to be used for both food and clothing. But it's also so that it's an acceptance that animals have a intrinsic value other than having a useful value. In the media, animals are sometimes found to be debilitating. No one can defend this. My claim will be that when we see animal tragedy, there is often also human tragedy behind it. Fur nutrition has been a successful and well - organized export industry for over 80 years. The export value is above 350 million. kr. In addition, in District Norway, there is an important combined industry that employs around 2,300 people in whole or in part. Fur nutrition was the first animal nutrition in Norway with its own animal welfare research programme. In 2001, an action plan on animal welfare was established as a consequence of the new regulations in the late 1990s. I would say that this industry, as far as I know, is serious, and that it takes animal welfare seriously. Many people make a number that other countries are now imposing bans on fur animal husbandry. England was one of the countries that did it from 1 January this year. The consequence is that the industry is flagging out to countries that do not have the same focus on animal welfare. The fur animals know no borders. If one were to go to the step of banning animal husbandry also in Norway, it would probably mean that production would rise in other countries where there is not the same focus on animal welfare, and where the legislation is much worse. Many animal protection organisations are committed to this industry. There's a lot of good and serious animal friends around in Norway. The work they do is both affordable and necessary in a democratic society. Unfortunately, there are also those who are both unprofessional and undemocratic. It is often the case in our society that those who know least are those who shout loudest and strong in their claims. The truth will then be distorted and unclear. I would also like to point out the important environmental work done by fur animal nutrition in society. Every year about 80 million kilos of waste from fishing, fish farming, slaughterhouse and food industries are simply refurbished. These are wastes that cannot be used for food other than animal food, due to the risk of bullying. The alternative would be destruction, which would cost the food industry tens of millions of dollars. Finally, I would argue that Norwegian fur nutrition is a world leader before animal welfare, and that Norway is a transit country for other fur producing countries. As far as Norwegian fur farming is concerned, it can be used internationally before both animal welfare and animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e609	In my first post, I talked in general about animals and the ethical platform. In the debate, each animal species has been listed, so now I want to say a little about hens. It's said that we aim for eggs to be produced by free-range hens. Many of us who have not gone into this debate have a bit of a romantic idea about the free-walking hens – such as. in Emil, Mount Lønne and such manufactures. In fact, if one is to produce in a large herd of free-range hens, there are problems that at least animal welfare is as serious as the cage operation leads to. That is why we have agreed to continue research into how to keep such herds. There is no hokuspocus to enter for production in free-range flocks. I also want to say a few words about fur animals. Norway’s breeding of fur animals has itself developed an action plan on animal welfare — they were early out on it. What characterises the fur industry is that it cares for its animals and the way they carry out this operation. Like all the others in this country who are engaged in the acquisition of animals, the fur industry also knows that the prerequisite for good production is that the animals thrive. The representative Ryan spoke in his post that this animal group might have flagged on half pole today. One thing I'm sure of at least – if you had suddenly released the animals, I don't think it would have given any reason to flag on the whole pole. The animals are domesticated through breeding in 80, almost 100, years, as it's called, in such a way that they depend on the care that those who breed fur can provide. The Committee notes that it wishes to look further at improving the welfare of fur animals. The industry also agrees. I am absolutely convinced that the industry itself, the fur breeder, will actively go in to further improve the conditions for their animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e622	First of all, something that I did not get in my main post – it concerns transport and slaughter. One of the areas I think we need to have even more focus on in the future is the problems of the long distance to the slaughterhouses and the way the animals are transported. We have to remember that there are often old animals to be transported to the slaughterhouse. The fact that we have a slaughterhouse structure today that makes it longer and longer to carry the animals to the slaughterhouse is a heavy burden on the animals. We know that there are many examples of animal deaths that should have been avoided during this transport. Therefore, the Minister of Agriculture should look at this with mobile slaughterhouses, and perhaps also go into the agricultural negotiations what can be done to reduce the distances to the slaughterhouses, i.e. to maintain a more decentralised and closer structure in the case of slaughterhouses. I'm sorry, I'm not going to say anything more about it right now. I have to comment on two other issues. I think it was a pleasure for the Minister of Agriculture to say that it should be included in the agricultural negotiations. In other words, he supports the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the SV, who have a note about it in the setting, while the other parties, from his own government, do not support it. That is why we are very pleased that the Council of State is with us that this should be part of the agricultural negotiations. Finally, to the representative Grethe Fossli: I just want to quote what the majority – where SV is not with – says in a comment. These are the following: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Socialist Left Party, supports the Government’s view that unbundling should be a goal for the industry, and the majority is aware that the welfare professional assessments on which work is based today suggest that unbundling is not well developed enough to appear as a clearly better alternative to cage operations.’ On the other hand, SV says the following: ‘On this basis, these members wish that traditional 3-hoy cages should be prohibited from 2010 and replaced by unattended systems.’ So SV wants to be much more concrete and ban cage chickens from 2010. Here we have not received support from the Labour Party and the other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e641	I understand that a political point is made out of what majority of the Councils have the support of here. I just want to stress that investment funds for agricultural buildings – not least for livestock buildings – have been part of agricultural policy for decades and will continue to be so. When there is no explicit mention of this, it is assumed that this policy will be pursued, and I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e648	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3039]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e664	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e671	Inner. S. No 218 concerns the progressive liberalisation of the postal services market, without a date for full opening of the postal market to competition. The background is that Annex XI to the EEA Agreement should be amended to include Directive 2002/39/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 June 2002. This is an amending directive for the existing Postal Directive. The Postal Directive aims to create a common framework for postal operators in the internal market and to ensure a nation-wide supply of quality basic postal services at a reasonable price. The postal directive to be amended now allows Member States to reserve certain services to the postal operator(s) performing the universal service to the extent necessary to ensure a universal service provision. The services that can be reserved are the collection, sorting, transport and delivery of domestic and cross-border correspondence of up to 350 grams and up to five times the basic tariff for a priority letter within the first weight class. Directive 2002/39/EC provides for progressive liberalisation in several stages. The proposal is that from 1 January 2003, the authorised area of EU law should be limited to postal items weighing up to 100 grams and with a price of up to three times the basic tariff for a priority letter within the first weight class. From the same date, the starting point for outgoing cross-border mail shall also be liberalised, but Member States may grant derogations if necessary to ensure the universal service. From 1 January 2006, the single right area shall be reduced further, at 50 grams and at a price up to two and a half times the basic tariff. Finally, before 31 December 2006, the Commission shall submit to Parliament and the Council a proposal for full liberalisation to take place in 2009. However, in advance of this last step up to full liberalisation, the Commission must undertake a study on the effect of liberalisation on the universal service. The Committee shared views on the proposal for further liberalisation of postal services. Right, Christian People's Party and the Progress Party support the proposal in St.prp. No 46. The Labour Party supports first steps but will not decide on liberalisation beyond this until the study of the effectiveness of liberalisation has been completed. The Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are moving towards all stages of liberalisation. I'm assuming that the other parties will do their thing, and I'm going to use the rest of the post to explain their center party. We are aware that many of the authorities that have expressed themselves are in favour of further liberalisation of the Post. But we think it must be given priority to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs' comments. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs points out that liberalisation is likely to benefit from a central approach, whereas, in less central terms, there will only be room for one actor and that the State will probably have to purchase services in some areas. The proposal will also reduce the value of one-off sports when the one-off area is reduced. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs also believes that the provision of competitive pricing services in all parts of the country may be necessary if liberalisation leads to increased price and supply differences. According to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, it is important to address the consequences of the liberalisation of districts. The Central Party supports the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs in finding out what liberalisation has to say for the districts. We believe that the distribution, which is also to be carried out by the Ministry of Transport, should have been carried out before the overall assessment of whether there should be further liberalisation. Even the Ministry of Transport points out that full liberalisation of the postal market could have major consequences, especially for districts. The Ministry of Transport also states that they are concerned with ensuring that further liberalisation does not go beyond the universal service. This is in my opinion a good argument for stopping and waiting for the release to be made. I would also like to refer to the debate on rural policy in the Grand Duchy in May 1995, where it was agreed: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish procedures to ensure that the impact on rural policy is addressed as part of the decision-making basis, when deciding whether to implement policy in key societal areas.’ So far I can't see that this has been done in this case. The conclusion of the Central Party is that we will vote against the setting in this case. We will also vote against the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e707	The Workers' Party believes that a reduction in the exclusive right could contribute to a lower income for the Post. This may result in the Post getting less money to spend on unprofitable postal services. Either the unprofitable parts of the business may be reduced and some postal customers may receive lower services, or state purchases may have to be increased. The Labour Party points out that the requirement of equal mail across the country relates to services covered by the exclusive right of the Post, and a reduction in the exclusive right implies that a minor part of the correspondence will be subject to this requirement. The aim of the Workers' Party is to maintain equal postage across the country for the exclusive field as an important part of the service level of the Post. The Labour Party points out that the Postal Directive provides for a minimum of five days of postal distribution, while in Norway we have mail delivery to almost all households and activities every working day, i.e. six days a week. This is also an important part of the quality of the postal service, in the view of the Workers' Party. The Labour Party believes that the distribution of mail still needs to be an infrastructure service where society has a responsibility to provide equivalent services to all citizens. A similar postal service must be maintained at the same price throughout the country. All basic and basic banking services shall be available in all municipalities in the country. The working party refers to Article 23 of the Directive. From this point of view, it would be more natural, in the view of the Labour Party, to wait with decisions on further liberalisation from 1 January 2006 until after the first evaluation to be carried out in 2004. The Labour Party refers to previous comments on the importance of maintaining equivalent offers across the country and will therefore postpone the decision on further liberalisation until 2005. This is a procedure that will not delay the further process. As a consequence, the Workers' Party will propose a supplement to the proposal for a Decision as follows: ‘...with the exception of the decision to reduce the single right area of Posten AS to 50 grams from 1 January 2006.’» In this context, I would like to promote the proposal mentioned in the vote. In the end, I want to touch on the dividend policy that is being pursued against the Post today. Today, we're taking a dividend from a company that's running out of money. One can then ask questions about whether this is correct. We have today a company that is undergoing major conversion, and which will still be. Then it's also important that you have a proper foundation financially to do this task. It is therefore important that both government and enlargement follow the situation in which the Post is located, and also in the future, and, where appropriate, look into these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e729	The representative Tor-Arne Stroem has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e732	It is true, as I said earlier, that the European Commission is initially proposing a step by step liberalisation in two directives. The first is divided into two stages, and that is what the debate is about today. The minority, represented by the Workers' Party, has taken its arguments from Article 23. It is true that the European Commission has also wanted to report every two years in an evaluation process of this liberalisation. However, we see that if the European Commission had taken into account the direct impact of the ongoing evaluation on the design of the directive, it would also have been taken into account when designing a directive that is already taking two steps, with reference to 2003 and 2006. So the minority problematizes this with the Post's living conditions in general, the Post's income, etc. We in the Right and in the Governmental Parties will not go far into this process, all the time it has been announced a down-to-earth notification of these terms in general. We'll come back to this when we're going to have that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e741	The EEA Directive under consideration today opens up further liberalisation of Community postal services. Of course, we in the Progress Party are pleased about that. But the proposal does not go into total free competition, as we might have wished. This, after all, means that we are getting along well, while pointing out that the Council wants full liberalisation by 2009. The Progress Party is therefore satisfied with the proposal contained in the directive, and we are in agreement with the Right and Christian People's Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e748	In SV, we are opposed to opening the liberalisation of postal services, as the majority of the Committee now proposes. There is reason to stress that with this decision Norway will go further than other EU countries in liberalising, as we have done in many other areas. The key issue in this matter is the consequences for the districts, the parts of the country where there is not so much money to make by mail, of increasing the liberalisation of postal services. Increased liberalisation means increasing focus on making money on postal services, and probably less searchlights aimed at the overall societal objectives, namely a nationwide postal network, an equivalent postal offer, equal postage across the country and mail delivery six days a week, the same offer in Oslo as in Værøy and Røst. We do not know the consequences of increased liberalisation. But the danger of District Norway becoming the loser and getting a worse postal service is great. The probability of the state having to enter and purchase postal services is high. But we do not know the scope; there is no investigation into it in the case. It is worth noting here the opinion delivered by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, where they say: Liberalisation can benefit the key strands.In less central areas, there will be room for only one actor. Measures need to be put in place to help provide an equivalent range of postal services at competitive prices across the country. And the department then says that in this context it is important to assess the consequences of liberalisation for districts. It is not done in this case. I have difficulty seeing the country as a whole get a better postal service by liberalizing. Until now, the Post Norway has been able to grant cross-subsidies. Some of the profits of the profitable parts have contributed to maintaining a full range of offers in the less profitable parts of the country. The entry Norway has been through a rather extensive reorganization, many post offices have been closed, and the organisation has undergone significant redundancies. Increased liberalisation will mean further loss of revenue for the Post, new, large cut in the organisation and cut in the offer, and closure of several post offices will come as a consequence. In May 1995 the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg adopted the following decisions: ‘The government is asked to set out procedures to ensure that the impact on rural policy is addressed as part of the decision-making basis, when deciding whether to implement policy in key societal areas.’ In the transport sector, during the current period, the Stortinget has adopted large-scale exemption and liberalisation, rail outsourcing, freedom from aviation, freedom from road transport and the opening up of national road ferries, and we are now adopting liberalisation of postal services. In common with all these decisions, the 1995 decision to raise the social impact of the decisions has not been followed up. We deeply regret that, and therefore the SV will vote against the proposal of the Committee and the supplementary proposal of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e783	The Christian People's Party has never been a strong driver for further opening up to competition in the postal services market. And neither are we today. But when that is said, the Christian People's Party is pleased with the way in which the Ministry of Transport has proposed that this directive should be implemented in Norwegian legislation. In our opinion, the procedure is orderly and contributes to predictability for market players. For the Christian People's Party, it is also reassuring that neither the EU postal directive nor the amending directive, which we are considering today, add to the universal service requirements. Good quality postal services shall remain available in all parts of the country at a reasonable price. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that the Government does not intend to provide the liberalisation rate on the basis of the EU. The Postal Directive provides Member States with the possibility of speeding up the pace. But if we had carried out the liberalisation process, it would have been unfortunate, because foreign players had been given the opportunity to compete in Norway, while the Post Norway had not had similar opportunities in other European countries. In addition, the Christian People's Party believes that a fundamental investigation is needed into the impact of liberalisation on postal services throughout the country. Competition is not a goal in itself. There is no point in continuing further liberalisation if there is no evidence of better provision of postal services. On the contrary, it may be a point to stop the liberalisation process if it appears that the offer is getting worse. Increased competition in the postal market will create both practical and political challenges. Some of these challenges and others, more general postal policy issues, will be able to come back to us in the Government’s announcement of the activities of the Post Norway AS. In the light of the revolutionary technological development and development of the European postal market, we believe in the Christian People's Party that it is important that we keep the post-political debate warm. A well-functioning postal system is a very important part of our infrastructure. Not least, the Post is important in order to maintain a spread of residence and a viable business life on the outskirts. What does it want, for example? meaning business in District Norway if we have to give up the principle of geographical unit portfolio? Such questions may need to be asked in the future. Finally, I have to pay a little visit to the Workers' Party. I find it strange that the Workers' Party, which is usually very obliged to approve EEA Directives, is proposing a postponement of the decision to reduce the area of exclusivity to 50 grams. The Labour Party knows, as well as the Christian People's Party, that this reduction is coming. When the Workers' Party makes such a proposal, it only contributes, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, to the unnecessary uncertainty of the actors and employees in the Post.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e800	Two postal matters are being dealt with here today. One is St. prp. No 46 for 2002-2003, and the second for Ot.prp. No 41 for 2002-2003 on the law amending the Postal Act. The legislative proposal is to a large extent a follow-up to the proposal put forward in the landfill proposal. The new Directive sets out a plan for further gradual liberalisation of the postal market. The liberalisation shall take place in two stages, in 2003 and 2006, without already setting a date for full liberalisation of the postal market. The government believes that gradual and controlled liberalisation of the postal services market will lead to a better and more varied service offer at a lower price. From the minority in the Committee on Transport, questions have been raised as to whether the implementation of the Directive could lead to a lower level of postal services. I would therefore like to emphasise that the Directive will not entail any changes to the postal offer in any part of the country. The requirements for service provision, availability and quality resulting from Posten's concession are established. Therefore, no changes will be made to the requirement that mail be initially delivered six days a week or that basic banking services be provided throughout the Post Office’s despatch network. It's solid. Nor does the Directive make it necessary to amend the geographical unit portfolio requirement for shipments within the exclusive jurisdiction. I can therefore assure you that equal postage will be maintained for the exclusive rights area. In this context, the Government recommends that the new EU postal directive be incorporated into the EEA Agreement and that it be incorporated into Norwegian legislation. The proposal could have a financial impact on the Post Office and possibly also on the State. A reduction in exclusive rights will probably lead to a decrease in the Post Office's income from addressed letters in addition to the reduction we see today due to technological developments. The lack of income presents the Post against major challenges, both market and economic. The extent of the effect depends on how competitive the Post will be in terms of quality and price. I think the Post is well prepared to meet the increased competition. The company has undergone significant improvements in the efficiency of its business and has made a substantial effort to improve its services and new services. The extent to which a reduction in the exclusive right will have an impact on the annual government purchase of business unprofitable postal services is uncertain. This will include, inter alia: depending on whether the Item loses market shares and revenues in profitable areas, and whether the net cost of services that the Item is obliged to offer increases overall. In view of the fact that the geographical unit portfolio requirement relates to services in the area of exclusive rights, the proposal would imply that a smaller part of the correspondence would be covered by this requirement. However, whether the Post is actually going to operate at different prices for consignments outside the exclusive jurisdiction is uncertain. The post today also has unit portfolios for consignments that do not require unit portfolios, such as: for correspondence outside the exclusive field and for the Norway package. EU postal legislation does not prevent Member States from opting for the pace of liberalisation in relation to Directive requirements. However, our proposal follows the rate of liberalisation that has been established on the basis of the EU. The EU aims to address the consequences of further liberalisation of the postal market, given that a final date for liberalisation can be set for 2009. The Ministry of Transport in this country has initiated and is already exploring the consequences for Norway of liberalisation in addition to the proposed liberalisation in 2003 and 2006. The outcome of the investigation shall provide a basis for broad public debate. Any legislative proposal for further liberalisation will be drawn up in the light of the conclusions that can be drawn from the impact assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e834	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e837	The representative of Sahl was a little concerned with the understanding of the EU directive by the Workers' Party, and considers the proposal presented to be contrary to the practice of the Workers' Party in harmonising legislation and regulations in Norway vis-à-vis the EU. It is an interesting question – whether to interpret it in a positive sense – Sahl travels, because it helps and provides an opportunity to clarify the relationship we ourselves should have with those legislations that are formulated in the EU directive. It's the way that there's no imposition that's absolute, that doesn't give room for national movement. What is happening within the framework of the EU should not be designed as something that cannot be touched on. And in this case, where we go into such a complicated area as mail and deregulation of mail, there's every reason to look at what opportunities we have to take care of the national interests we have, to ensure a future postal distribution that the country of Norway will serve. When the Workers' Party shares its support for this Directive, it is firstly because we are obliged to have legislation in place from 1 July. That's what we get. The second is that we are making arrangements to take advantage of the experience gained up to the next stage of deregulation, 1 January 2006. This rejects the government parties. This rejects the Christian People's Party, and to the Christian People's Party, I can only say that despite the kindness they feel to show the Workers' Party, and the attention given to the Workers' Party, it amazes me that the Christian People's Party, with its background, with great boldness both goes against all the world and still joins in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e850	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3040]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e865	Through the Montreal Convention of 28 May 1999, ICAO decided to secure full compensation for passengers without a maximum limit in the event of personal injury or fatal accident. In addition, air carriers will subsequently also be responsible for the loss of baggage and significant financial losses due to delays in the aftermath of accidents. The Community has incorporated the Montreal Convention into its legislation through Council Regulation No. 889/2002. This Council Regulation wishes to integrate the EEA Committee into the EEA Agreement. This is also the unanimous attitude of the Committee on Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e874	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3040]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e889	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e896	It is easy to mobilise many sympathy with the intentions of the proposers behind the proposal to change the practice of driving licences with restrictions, so that more, especially older people, can benefit from this scheme. For most, especially for those of us who live in places with poorly developed collective services, it is important to have a driving licence in order to be able to function in everyday life. For many older people, driving a car to and from the store or visiting friends and family means quality of life. I therefore think it is very positive that on the part of the road authorities it has been working on their own offers aimed at older people in the form of courses and information that provide useful knowledge about being a good driver and understanding of what physical changes due to our aging can mean safe driving. These measures allow many older people to retain their driving licence and to be active drivers longer than they would otherwise have been. When the Committee has not chosen to support the proposal of Inger S. Enger and Jorunn Ringstad, it is not because we do not want older people to drive cars for as long as possible, but because for reasons of road safety, it is not appropriate to resort to a practice where normal driving licences are replaced by driving licences with geographical or other restrictions when health deteriorates due to ageing. It is important to maintain the principle that the licence holder must lose the right to drive when he or she no longer fulfils the health requirements for an ordinary driving licence. In the community, schoolchildren often travel, children play in the streets, and roads are often narrow and inconclusive. It is important to keep all the senses when driving a vehicle in such an area. I would therefore strongly warn against a more liberal practice with regard to restricted driving licences. In this context, I also refer to the clear recommendation made by the Minister for Transport on the occasion of the case. Finally, it is important to remember that many older people are lonely, and that lack of transport can be a cause for not getting around in the local environment. It is important that we facilitate the participation of older people in social life through measures and schemes other than those proposed here. The Council of State points out, inter alia: TT system and public transport as important areas in this way. I also want to challenge voluntary teams and organisations to organise driving for the elderly in the local environment, for example. when there are different forms of cultural events. Traffic safety must always come first. In this case, the recommendation is clear: a changed and more liberal practice in the case of restricted driving licences could lead to reduced road safety. In this respect, I refer to the proposal recommended by the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e915	It is with some surprise that I read this Document No. The 8th proposal from the Centre Party, which has received support from the Progress Party in the Committee. I was surprised that these batches will change the practice with regard to the use of restricted driving licences, so that more people can use the scheme. This includes, inter alia: The centre lot is occupied by the fact that several older drivers should be able to use the restricted driving licence scheme within a restricted area. I fully understand that older people want to keep the certificate for as long as possible, but for me it is safety and security that comes first. We all have zero vision as a goal, and then our rules and regulations have to be handled strictly. There are now schemes that can lead to driving licences with geographical limitations. The general rule when the licence holder no longer complies with the health requirements for an ordinary driving licence is that the right to drive is lost. There's still an opening here. Upon application, the Directorate-General for Road Transport may issue driving licences with a geographical limitation. Before issuing this, health authorities must grant exemptions from the health requirements. The county doctor’s exemption is necessary but not sufficient to obtain a restricted driving licence. It is important that we have a strict attitude to restricted driving licences. It concerns safety and safety both for the driver and for co-traffic users. That is why we do not want a more liberal practice in this area. That older people need to come to shops or attend other social events outside their home, I understand, but then, as the case-rapporteur said, we have to allow them to use public transport or, for example, public transport. The TT system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e930	The proposal from the Centre Party to change the practice of restricted driving licences, so that more people can benefit from this scheme, is a good proposal and the Centre Party deserves tribute for this. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities supports this proposal. The Progress Party expects the extended use of the limited driving licence scheme to be practised so that more older people can also obtain the driving licence. This must be done mainly by enabling persons who would not have received a driving licence today to obtain a limited driving licence and persons at risk of losing their normal driving licence to retain their driving licence for one geographically restricted area. I refer to the proposal that was included on page 2 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e939	The representative of Thore A. Nistad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e942	Measures to improve road safety are important themes in the context of traffic. Document 8:90 from Inger S. Enger and myself is a contribution to the debate on road safety. I have noticed that the plurality of the committee, except for the Progress Party and the Centre Party, stresses that road safety for drivers and co-traffic users must come only when the weight of the natural ageing process and the ability to drive vehicles is reduced. With this argument, the plurality warns against a more liberal practice when it applies to a limited driving card. It is precisely for traffic security reasons that we should make it easier to use the limited driver card scheme. I would say that with increased use of the limited driving licence, the traffic risk will be reduced. Restricted driver card is not new. It is opening up to this also today. But today there are very strict rules and a heavy paper mill to come through. Therefore, a very low number of such driver cards is granted every year. Many can use short and well not to start the process and the paper mill. Today, we can initially get an eternal driver's card when we take a driver's card as 18-year-olds. From the age of 70, we just have to have a health certificate to keep running. Today, therefore, it is the legacies that decide in the first row whether older people will continue to run. This we know can be difficult evaluations for ligaments. When the option to continue running is to have to submit the driver card, it is enough that some might easily keep a standard driver card for many. If the option of retaining the driver card is not to give it away, but to get a geographically restricted driver card, this may be a way of ensuring that road users who do not master the most complex traffic situations are only running in traffic that is easier to deal with. This view is supported by many who work within Safety Traffic, traffic training osb. Car running is too many an important factor for a good quality of life. For those who have driven a car through a long life and depend on using a car to get to the store, pick up mail or meet friends, running in the community will be very important. It may be fully justified to allow a person to drive a car in the nearby environment, while it may be life-threatening to let the same person out in urban traffic or on a high-speed motorway where the traffic challenges set far greater demands on senses and response capabilities. Often it is that those who are perhaps the most dependent on being able to continue driving, live in the districts. Many of the services are centralised, the distances are large, and there are few or no collective services. People are scattered, and there are therefore not many drivers to sit on to reach important services or participate in social gatherings. When it is shown by some representatives that one can use collective or other arrangements, these representatives have to realize that the arrangements to which they refer are very deficient in many places in the country. What we know is that traffic patterns are not as complicated in pig-grown strokes as in more traffic-tighter areas. Local geographic knowledge also reduces the difficulty and allows you to use less energy to find out where you are going. This will allow a geographic driver card to give you the right to run in the immediate environment. However, a health assessment must also be carried out at the time of the demarcation of driving licences. Of course, driving licences should not be restricted as an option for those who are totally unsuitable as drivers, and this must apply to both younger and older drivers. A geographically bounded driver card may be an alternative to having to submit the driver card. It may be a good option, instead of leaving a person with a driver card without limitation, when the doctor is in doubt about the decision to take. The Progress Party has a note in its configuration that they want to extend the use of the scheme so that more people can get driver cards. The party wants to keep it both for people who are currently at risk of losing an ordinary driver card and for those who would not have a driver card today to be restricted. The centre party has not entered this comment. We have chosen to concentrate the proposal on those who can benefit from a geographically defined driving licence instead of losing their driving licence or, which may be worse in the traffic situation, still have a regular driving licence, which can be dangerous for both the person and the road user.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e971	Only a few words at the end of the debate. Of course, I agree with the case spokesman in the argument to go against this proposal and in the argument from the representative Anne Berit Andersen. Unlike Andersen, I am not surprised at the proposal. I think it's a good idea, so far, but I think it's a crazy suggestion. I'm absolutely sure the intention is good. The number of older driving licences is increasing. Older people now belong to a generation where most women do not have certificates. In our generation, all women will also have certificates, and if we were to go in for this scheme, the jam would become many older on the roads with more or less limited certificates. I know a lot of older people – it has something to do with my age – and I wonder if this is a problem. No, I don't think so. For those I know, there is no problem, because they create their own limitations gradually. They stop running where there's a roundabout, they don't run to the city anymore, they only run in familiar places, and then it gets smaller and smaller, and eventually it boils down to run to the store and the old center. They create their own limitations whenever they know it is necessary. I have actually experienced close family members who have been happy because they did not get the new health certificate. It was kind of good to let go, because they would have been afraid to run. So I don't think this is a big problem. And I have to say that in my everyday life I often think when I see older people running, or when I run with older people: oh! How long can this go – I hope the lying soon says no. I'm glad I've skipped being the one who says no. But I have to say that I am much more concerned about many poor running skills and also about some of the older people who are dangerous in the traffic than about the opposite, that they should not be allowed to run. I'm saying it's important that older people get out. We must make that right. In my municipality, this is already the case, in that ‘older people help older people’. There can only be a phone call and say that a person would like to have someone to come to the store or to the hospital, and then someone is running, and one pays an asset that is probably less than the one paying on the bus. The system is there. The TT card is another system that gives people security. And then you have most older people who care about them, so that when they themselves can't run, someone runs them. It's also important to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e982	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e985	The possibility of driving a car increases well-being and ensures life for most Norwegians. There should be very strict criteria on the basis of which the State enters and withdraws a driving licence without a driver having caused a traffic accident. The date of birth alone must not lead to unreasoning guardianship. We know that the highest rate of personal injury has the driving category on the opposite side of the age scale. The problem of the elderly in traffic is largely self-regulatory. The overwhelming majority of drivers feel even when the ageing process makes them unsuitable behind the steering wheel. Increased response time is compensated at lower speeds, poorer dark vision is compensated by avoiding dark driving, poorer orientation is compensated by taking along friends, replacing risk behaviour with lower testosterone levels, etc. Therefore, it should be kept away from drivers who are not involved in accidents, unless it is obvious to all that personal characteristics prevent continued use of cars. Withdrawal of driving licences is the loss of a central civil right. Not least drivers in areas with poor collective services. This, I think, is basically the situation today. Norwegian doctors know enough to understand that life without a car should not be judged without superb justification. If I am right that this is the situation today, there should be no reasonable room for further liberalisation proposed by the Central Party. Today, there is also the possibility of driving licences with geographical limitations, albeit under strict conditions. The weakness of the proposal of the Centre Party is that no attempt has even been made to describe a situation that shows that Norwegian doctors do not show the liberality and wisdom of older drivers and Norwegian road safety deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e994	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3040]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1010	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1017	Document No The 8th proposal we are now considering is tabled by the representatives of Kenneth Svendsen, Thore A. Nistad, Per Roar Bredvold and Christopher Stensaker. The case concerns the extension of the continuous four-field E6 motorway from Oslo to Trondheim. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, would like Document No. The 8th proposal shall be annexed to the minutes. The minority has their own proposal. The Socialist Left will reject the case, and the Progress Party is naturally on its starting point for this proposal. I expect both parties to explain their views on the matter later in the debate. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, see it as perfectly natural that such a major issue should be addressed in the context of the treatment of the National Transport Plan. That treatment will start in spring 2004. This road section is an important and heavily trafficked part of our main road network. In the context of the work of the National Transport Plan for the period 2006-2015, the Road Directorate has carried out an analysis to clarify which parts of the main road network need to be developed into a 30-year road or more. The new stock road standards assume that four fields are needed when annual traffic is more than 10000 vehicles. Based on this stretch, from a 30-year perspective, Oslo–Øyer and Melhus–Trondheim on the E6 will need four or more fields. This indicates a distance of approx. 250 km. The remaining approx. 290 km will have enough of a two-field road in a 30-year perspective. If we look at the costs of a four- or two-field road with a regular road standard, they will be around 14-15 billion kroner. This is not the first time that the Progress Party is promoting such huge proposals for the development of the road network. I just want to refer to Document No. 8:134 for 2001-2002, concerning the extension of E6/E18 from Svinesund/Erje to Kristiansand to a four-field road by 2010. In addition, the Tønsberg package, the Lister package, etc. – I could have calculated a lot of projects. They must then be financed only by state resources. We want to pursue a more responsible economic policy. We want, within the economic framework we have at our disposal, to see our entire road network in context and to give priority to those sections that have annual traffic that relate to four-field roads. We want to have good transport corridors for business, and we want to get the zero vision, but we don't have a sareptac to pull from, as it seems the Progress Party has. That is why we want to attach this proposal to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1043	In this Document, No: The 8 proposal is based on the assumption that E6 is extended to the four-field motorway on that part of the route that does not already have such a standard or better. It is important, however, that if such an extension is not implemented immediately or in the near future, at least planning and local remedial measures must be undertaken, with the overall objective of the road becoming a motorway sooner or later. Now the impact assessment for Gardermoen-Moelv has been completed and reviewed. The impact assessment concludes that this route is economically socially useful. The rest of the distance must be investigated now and once and for all. E6 from Oslo to Trondheim has major defects and defects. The road has an incoherent road standard, from the main road of six fields to two-field roads with level crossings. Many of the routes have a mixture of road users’ groups representing a high risk of accidents. Traffic density is among the largest in the country. In central parts of Oslo, annual traffic, ÅDT, is over 70 000. In Trondheim it is up in approx. 40,000, and in the Lillehammer area it is more than 10,000. Development will result in far fewer road accidents than at present. With two fields in each direction of travel and physically separated driving, middle parts, the number of meeting accidents will be reduced to approximately zero. Meeting accidents are known to be the most serious, and they cost society huge amounts every year. In particular, several sections of the Gudbrand valley are heavily damaged. Unfortunately, we have to state that Norway has the worst road network in Western Europe. Compared to several Eastern European countries, Norway appears to be poor. Even in developing countries, road standards are improving, while in Norway, which today has money to build a forward-looking infrastructure, the road network is failing. It is very sad to hear the previous speeches from the Right, which now suddenly have no money at all. I remember the last four-year period when, among other things, national transport plan. Then there was no way on good suggestions from the Right. So today, when they're in government, according to the national transport plan, there's a deficit of 1.4 billion kroner. So much for the promises made in the National Transport Plan of the Right. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that has been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1064	The representative of Thore A. Nistad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1067	I take the floor to promote the proposal SV has raised, where we propose to reject this document No. The 8th proposal. I'll stay a little bit with this anyway. The Progress Party now takes up proposals to allocate SEK 15 billion in the period up to 2012 to a four-field motorway between Oslo and Trondheim. The letter from the Ministry states that for 30 miles of this route there is not enough traffic base to equip up to a four-field motorway. There are good reasons to rust up the road, but for a quadruple there is not enough traffic base. Then the question can be asked whether this is the priority of the Progress Party in the National Transport Plan, when they address this proposal six months before the Grand Duchy is going to deal with it, i.e. a proposal of SEK 15 billion to a road that neither the Road Administration nor any other, I don't suppose the counties, have on their national transport plan priority list. The Transport Committee has soon been set up in all 15 counties and has been briefed on priorities in the transport sector. I don't think I'm exaggerating when I say that we've been presented with a total demand of between 30 and 40 billion kroner, on tribal roads, highways, short-distance networks, railways, across the sector, and there have been priority projects, which have been well-founded. Yesterday, the state agencies presented their proposals for priorities in the framework of the year’s budget level for the period up to 2015, and without having seen the proposals so carefully, I would assume that only a fraction of what the Committee on Transport has been briefed on is the need, has been incorporated into the proposals submitted. With that background, there is every reason to ask questions about the priorities of the Progress Party. So priority is given to a distance of 15 billion kroner, which no one has asked for, and which is not a basis for prioritizing traffic. Then are my questions to the Progress Party: What shall this be at the expense of? What is to be pushed out in time, or is this a proposal that very well illustrates that the Progress Party is unable to give priority to transport policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1076	The representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1079	I agree with the representative of Nistad and the Progress Party that we are all tired of following up on what we have promised in the National Transport Plan, and that the extra effort promised by the Government in the Sem Declaration is gone. But now I'm going to ask questions about the party's own calculation skills, their own calculation tool, and go a little further on to the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen. After I understand, the Progress Party will have all the bombs in this country gone. This will reduce revenue by approx. $2 billion a year. This project will amount to approximately DKK 3 billion a year for a nine-year period. They've spent $5 billion more than the rest of us, and then they've promised E18 from the Swedish border to Kristiansand, which probably also represents billions. So they've spent a lot more money than they have in their own alternative budgets, and for a party that's going to like to have ambitions to get into government offices, it's not possible to behave like that. It's not possible to create a math problem that doesn't hang in a bunch, and then people don't notice it. We discover that they create an operation that doesn't work together for the same operation. And in addition, the Progress Party is voting for a budget and getting an extra 100 to 200 million, and it was going to cover these projects, and then one would have spent a few hundred years to get it done. So this is just trickery.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1086	My first thought when this proposal from the Progress Party was referred to at the main hall was whether it was a serious proposal. I must continue to say that it is close to me to speculate in this way, especially when all road development by the Progress Party is to be covered by public budgets. For example, in my county, Eastfold, we would not have started the important road projects, E6 and E18, if it were the Progress Party model to be used. Now, however, we can rejoice that the works are in full swing. There are construction operations on both these two important roads. The realism of the Progress Party's road development is at best, in my opinion, marking matters. As mentioned earlier, the Committee on Transport has been on a number of inspections in most counties and presented projects for several tens of billions of dollars, and it is not this project that I would boldly, on the basis of these trips, go back to my group and proposed was prioritised. A letter from the Council of State points to the importance of this route, with a lot of heavy traffic, but that the proposal had to be limited at best to parts of the Oslo-Trondheim route, including: the traffic base is present for the four-field motorway. A clear majority points out that the costs of this proposal will distort other important plans over a very long period of time, and as such the case must be referred to the forthcoming roll-out of the national transport plan for the period 2005 to 2014. From this point of view, the recommendations must be that Document No. 8:97 is annexed to the Protocol, without denying that good infrastructure is of great importance to our entire vast country in terms of prosperity, safety, improvement of the environment, and not least that we also contribute through a good road network to improving the competitive conditions of business. There is no doubt about this, but there is no realism in the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1095	I'm not going to spend a lot of time in the debate here. I thought that what might be said to be positive in the proposal from the Progress Party is that one is busy ensuring good passageways in the country and ensuring a good path for business. But when that is said, you also have to consider what requirements you should apply to the different distances. As others have also said, when it is said that one should build a four-field road on the entire Oslo-Trondheim route, one immediately asks how realistic the proposal is. It's also a little strange that it's going to be so soon to deal with the revision of the National Transport Plan. It should be unnecessary to put forward a proposal that directly concerns a major issue that we are going to deal with in just six months' time, and that will set out a model for what is going on in the future for ten years. In my view, it's almost an abuse of the Stortinge's time when such proposals are made without a reason other than that one wants a four-field road, when one knows that one has traffic telltale that there is no need for a four-field road on the entire route. I also think that here, when we're responsible for the overall transportation system in the country, we should look at how we use the resources, and not over-prioritize on routes that can handle less than what has been proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1104	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1108	Good, safe roads are good for everyone, both for those who use the road to transport themselves and their own, and not least for business. This means that a good transport policy is a good district policy. The Progress Party wants people to live and live in the districts as they do in the cities. However, in order for this to be possible, Norway’s road network must have a good standard. And to achieve this goal, more means have to be used – something that it looks like only the Progress Party understands. E6 from Oslo to Trondheim is one of the country's most important carriers, while the railway, which goes side by side, has not been able to get passengers or goods of any great importance. So it also seems that it will be in the future. Norway today has the worst road network in Western Europe, but it should be the opposite. If there is something that Norway is dependent on, it is a good road network. The aim of this may be some extensive development, for example: better accessibility, better road safety, better environment and better transport economy. These four points make it possible for districts to survive and possibly grow as well, and for Norway’s business to continue to be competitive. For crews and equipment to do the job, this can be found both in Norway and in our neighbouring countries. And the social economy should also be present.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1126	There are two important aspects of this Document No. The 8th proposal. One is the assessment of four-field E6 between Oslo and Trondheim. What gives the matter dimensions, however, is the way and in what context the case is promoted. It has become a widespread sport among opposition parties to promote or address costly measures outside the budgetary agenda. In this case, the Progress Party and SV are the profiled practitioners of the sport. Without cost analysis requirements and a visible sense of comparison between existing and alternative road projects, the table has a cost-colossal dimension of 25 000 million. kr. Not only is it outside ordinary State budget treatment in the United Kingdom, but it is even happening at the same time as the national transport plan policy avoidance process, or rather: its roll-out. The proposal fits nicely into the system – or lack of it – that seems to have become part of today’s order of the Storting. Document No The 8 proposal is no explicit example of the need to substantiate the principle of prioritisation or comparison between different measures, the lack of subordination under the principle of overall overview and the need to push something down in order to be able to push something else up on the political wish list, the lack of false modesty in relation to the principle of maximum possible components in order to complete a often untransparent reality and thereby respectful use of taxpayers' money. No, rather, it's not about any principle, other than the principle that it's not to stick to the kind of trouble that principles can often be. They are clear that it is tempting to boil together a select menu that can be served every week and that can be exchanged in capital, laboriously distributed over the whole year, without disturbing the action by others, more intrusive, needs — or disrupted by the context that causes the troll to burst into the light of the multiplicity of which all individual matters are rightly at home. When the analysis of priorities is completely lacking and the budget base is as crazy, the country's use of money becomes the most original. Out of respect for good fellow Members, I should not even mention the concept of containment, as irrelevant and advocating this concept is considered in certain political circles. The political process of weathering that is wise to give money to things individually and without any connection, is less for money. Right wants more for the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1139	The interesting thing about this debate is that no one in this room, except the Progress Party, has seen what was happening today, proposals for the national transport plan 2006–2015. It says on page 11: ‘The road authorities of the Member States recommend to concentrate their efforts on E6, E18... These are the main transport years throughout the country. These roads also have the highest traffic volumes and the highest traffic safety problems.» So there's none of the other parties that's ever heard of E6. They say no one has asked for this way. No one's asked for any repairs. It will be very interesting when we deal with the continuation of the national transport plan in the autumn. Another thing in the National Transport Plan is that according to Vegvesenet, the forecast of the delay, or what is less, will amount to SEK 2.1 billion. It is stated in this plan, which obviously no one has seen today. And they said we haven't made any predictions. But all the predictions we had in the previous plan, which were made of TEL, were wrong. Traffic increased a lot more, and now even the Road Service says that they want to give priority to E6, but you don't want to do that here. So the gamers ask about some different things. The working party says we're going to remove all of the trees, and then we're going to have an extra NOK 3 billion. We've never said that we want to remove all the trees. We've never said that. We've just said that if you're going to finance a road with trees, it's going to be free to drive on the old road that's next door. But we accept that there is a collection on a new highway. So what are we going to do? And what's this going to cost? We have said clearly that we want to spend some of the oil money on this. Why should we salt down so much money abroad? In connection with the previous national transport plan, we said that we would spend NOK 5 billion more per year. years. If you add everything that was promised in the National Transport Plan a few years ago – and what came from the Vegvesen today, minus NOK 2 billion – actually starts that way up to Trondheim now soon to be finished. In addition to not complying with what has been said in the national transport plan, the Bondevik government also had something called the Sem Declaration. What did you say there? Well, that would of course increase by 600 million. kr. Where has it become of them? And then the Progress Party is accused of violating agreements. We have the money. We've said that we want to use the oil money, and we're standing by that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1159	I was quite startled that as experienced representatives as the proposers promote such a proposal, when, among other things. some of the proposers are on the Committee on Transport and can follow the working procedures there, and one knows that the national transport plan will be rolled in a very short time. I'm not going to discuss money with the Progress Party, because that's where I think the money is spent on both sides. But I have a great sense that the majority of the committee refers to the usual working routine in the Stortinget, which means that one sees this matter in the context of the national transport plan and the roll-out. But when I took the word, it was also because it is important to put the search light on a distance that is as bad as E6. It should actually involve us all. Stange Commune and Stange Arbeiderparti have been very concerned about this, of course because of all the human tragedies one is witnessing. The Council of State has itself been in Hedmark and Uppland, and I expect and trust that the Council of State will follow closely in order at least to be able to rectify the worst sections, so that we can bring down the number of accidents. To SV I would also like to say: it is very important that we get a four-field road in the interior. We have a business that is completely dependent on good transport routes out and in our state. Without it, there is actually no life created in the interior. We have to have good roads. I think it's great that we look a little bit at the human tragedies of accidents, that we look at the business needs of good roads in the interior, but I have to repeat that this must be a solid marking case. In fact, I don't think people believe what they're witnessing from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1170	I wanted to, as rapporteur-in-Office, take the floor now as the matter approaches the end. I would like to thank the majority for seeing the importance of having a balanced budget. None of us are saying that we have achieved what we want in the transport budget. No, we say – and we are honest – that we have not achieved what we want. But that's because we see the importance of a tight budget. It's important for the interest rate and the interest rate. If we look from Christmas until now, I have to say that I am proud to belong to the majority, when we see that interest rates have fallen. And that's because of the policy that's been pursued. When the Progress Party can only spend money on the transport budget on roads, I would like to sum up all the projects proposed by the Progress Party, and I wonder if they will not eventually get a little backwards by themselves. When they propose the entire route E6 from Oslo to Trondheim as a four-field highway, and we know that in 30 years half of this road does not achieve annual traffic that has more than two fields, then I have to say, I wonder what priorities the Progress Party is making. Here again, I am very pleased that the majority wants to give priority to the means at their disposal, where they are really needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1181	I have been sitting and following this debate with some wonder. And what I'm recording is that in the absence of good arguments to have an offensive policy on transport, many politicians in this room end up rattling over proposals that are indisputably necessary both to speed up the creation of value in Norway and to take seriously what is being done in other contexts of politics, that is, to speak hotly for District Norway and developments there, and to talk warmly about the need to reduce the frequency of accidents. And it's obvious that it means better road standards. The most eye-catching of all is that in this room one manages to make this a balancing issue, knowing that the total value creation potential in Norway would have risen dramatically if, as all other countries in Western Europe have done for a long time, we had used our resources to support the development of our road network. It's amazing. What should worry the transport policy in Stortinget a lot more is that every single time you deal with transport plans, you already see the year after deficits are financed. So now the transport plan is underfunded with well and well 2 billion kroner – if I don't remember correctly. It has not been so long since it was revised and dealt with! And as a result, the road manager is now out suggesting that the main funding will be tolls in the future, despite the country's drivers paying billions of dollars into the state treasury every year. It's out of hand! At that time, I think that the first concern that transport politicians should be concerned about was to ensure that the plans they are actually adopting are achieved, because we are already in deficit there. Then you should be much more offensive in the maintenance of necessary road projects. There is no doubt that the development of E6 is and should be a priority task. We're a long way behind, and it should be a little embarrassing for someone and everyone that Norway, which is adorning itself with the title of the world's richest country in very many contexts, has such an insanely poor road standard as what we all have after all, when we rely on good infrastructure to maintain settlement throughout the country, and not least to be able to take care of all the value creation that takes place around our long-term country. The industry around has, at least in every context I've seen, been much less concerned with local stumps and dumps. They have been occupied by the major shipping years through the central eastern region, so that they can enter the market more quickly with their goods. It should be a priority task, and it's alarming that so few parties in this room are busy doing something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1194	I just want to give a short answer to the attack. It's true that the road managers have prioritised the main road network, the E6 and the E18. They have not prioritised the four-field highway from Oslo to Kirkenes! They have prioritised upgrading E6 to a level appropriate to the traffic base. What's amazing, and what's the criticism of the Progress Party, is that priority is given to the four-field motorway on a section which is not a priority of the professional authorities, and which, although we had doubled the road budget in the transport plan, had not been included in the priority list. If we had implemented the transport plan as it stands today, the parcel with which the Progress Party is giving priority would not have come. That's the amazing thing, and that's what you ask questions about. There is a need to grant 17 billion kroner in order to secure the Norwegian road network. It is likely that there is a need to allocate DKK 1 billion to upgrade the safety of the short-haul network, and there is likely to be a need to prioritize up to DKK 20 billion to upgrade the national road network from the coast to the tribal roads. I would have understood better if the Progress Party had delivered Document No. Eight proposals on that. But I don't understand it when you make a proposal to spend 15 billion kroner on a road bill that is not a priority at all, because it's not a traffic base enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1205	It was the representative of Siv Jensen who said that most of the time it was going to roll and harp over the Progress Party, and that was what got me to ask for the word. That's far from the case. It is true that there is a strong need for increased permissions on the way, and we have been on the road for the last two years with an increase of about 2 years. $1.8 billion in total for two years compared with the level we were at two years ago. But when the Progress Party now, just before the handling of the National Transport Plan, by a Document No. 8-proposals put in proposals to build a road to approx. 25 billion kroner, I feel that it's getting a little bit light. Whatever we're going to build in the future, we're going to have to put in and prioritize. It's true that our tradesmen say that E6, E18, E39 and the Oslo–Bergen route are the most important tribal routes, but to put 25 billion dollars above the table here in one of these sections without prioritizing, I might say that one takes it a little too easily, no matter how much money there is. When the majority in the committee will not reject this proposal, but attach it to the protocol, it is because we intend to take all the priorities of all the party seriously when we start on the priorities of the national transport plan. But then there must be real priorities. To start with, as the representative Nistad was also about to do, taking from the pension fund that we are building and that is going to pay future pensions, and applying it to measures far beyond what the majority of people think is right, would be a completely irresponsible policy. We're going to come back to these priorities. We're going to have extra roadways. But we have to have real priorities, no matter how much money we have to spend.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1214	Now I think it's starting to get good temperature in the debate. That's good. There's a lot of problems with how much you're lagging behind. This can be seen when starting the evaluation of the national transport plan. But I think it's important at least to make a real priority. It is clear that both E6 and E18 are important major arteries. So the situation is that the Progress Party, which goes so hard and criticises the others for perhaps not having filled up with money, granted more money, has itself been involved in the budgetary comparisons that have been in recent times. I really think that criticism has to be inward-looking when you've been in the budgetary conciliation. I think it's going to be completely unreasonable, and I think it's right that you go in yourself. If you have other priorities in relation to the transport side, you should do so, perhaps in relation to the comparisons you agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1223	Thore A. Nistad has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1227	I've only had one three-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1232	The main post plus a three-minute post becomes two posts. 1 plus 1 is 2. The representative is now up for the third time. This is not a road budget. This is speaking time. It'll be 1 minute, please!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1235	It's no use fooling the president! The wonderful thing about the debate today is not that it is SV or the Workers' Party that takes the hard drive towards the Progress Party, but it is Right. Of all the parties, it's the Right that is raging against the Advance Party. Then you can really start to be amazed. I just want to remind the party Right that we have just been on a committee trip northwards. We were in Helgeland. What did you say there? Yeah, they talked about E6. Everybody wanted to go into E6. From Helgeland it is far down to Trondheim. I can comfort the Right that we will soon come with a Document No. 8-proposal for the road from Trondheim and further north. Then we'll see how it works. What does the Right want? They're talking about pension funds, and we're going to take care of the money. That's okay, but after all, they lost over 100 billion kroner on the priorities they were making with the equity funds they invested in. If we had only received some of the money that was lost – just a little bit – we would have come very far. So SV asked why we wouldn't prioritize the roads into E6. We want to, too, we want to. But it's clear that having good roads to E6 doesn't help if we don't have a good E6!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1248	It was an impressive mathematical show you had here! I once heard that in politics it's often like 2 + 2 = 3, sometimes 5, but never 4. I think it is striking that a number of speakers today are seeing the problems. The accidents were swept over, and Eirin Faldet pointed out that the industry in the districts depended on good transport routes. That's the way it is in her district. That's the way it is in my district. But there is no follow-up to concrete actions and the ability and willingness to increase road appropriations. It cannot be expected that business will get better or that the number of accidents will fall. The only other option is to ban a car. But I guess there's only one party in the room that'll talk about. Perhaps one of the most eye-catching issues in the field of transport policy is the Right Party, which, in the post-election election campaign, is on the track with great promises of strong increases in road budgets. But when it comes to action, it becomes nothing. It doesn't seem like they're even ashamed. I thought they might be a little awkward. I just have to say, unfortunately, you haven't achieved what you thought you were supposed to do, and then you owe it to tight budgets and stick to it. The tight budgets include: given us unemployment and industrial death. We have money to raise the Norwegian road system. We have people to build. Still, it looks like the bulk of the population is the lamb of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1259	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3040]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1275	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1286	The document under consideration today deals with the new rules on contributions which enter into force from 1 October 2003. We all agree that it is very important to have a thorough examination of these rules. This was also done in the previous enlargement period, and in the further development of legislation by the Ministry in line with the decision of the broad majority. There are three issues discussed in this position. These are: 1 adjustment of the rules before entry into force.2 what is referred to in the proposal as ‘the mediation fee’3 how to evaluate these rules The main intention of the new rules on contributions is to increase the contribution when the contributor has high income and the beneficiary has low income. The contribution is reduced when the contributor has low income and the beneficiary has high income. Beneficiaries with very low incomes shall not pay. Contributions to older children are higher than contributions to younger children. A lot of association makes lower contributions, while little association makes higher contributions. These principles are in line with what emerged in the treatment of Ot.prp. No 43 for 2000-2001. A clear majority want these principles to remain the basis for the assessment of contributions. Of course, we are all concerned that the new legislation should not lead to increasing poverty and harm children, but in this area we believe that good arrangements have also been put in place. Among other things, the new eligibility assessment has been carried out by low-economy contributors. Those who do not have the money to support their children should also not be charged a contribution. In the case of beneficiaries, the loss of the tax liability on contributions would give them a clear economic advantage. In the case of the child supplement which some have in social security, I must refer to the letters of the Council of State to the Committee attached to the recommendation, stating that this is ‘a public benefit for the benefit of the child and is not intended to cover the maintenance of the contributor or the beneficiary’. We have registered that the SV and the Center Party want a rematch on the rules, but the government parties and the Advance Party are sceptical about making changes before the new rules come into force. We may be a bit surprised that the Workers' Party also seems to be joining in on this rematch. It was actually the ones who put the rules forward in their time. We have recorded that SIFO has provided new stencil figures for the cost of caring for children, and that the Council of State has stated that the contribution model should be adjusted to take account of these. We are pleased with that. In the case of the so-called mediation fee, the majority consider that the scheme is important in order to motivate as much as possible to conclude private contracts. We have also seen figures from the Rikstrøgdeverket that indicate that this works. We understand that in many cases it may be very difficult to reach a private agreement, but we believe it is right to put pressure on parents to try more to reach agreement. I think we need to be ready to communicate that it is fully possible to seek advice and guidance from the social security office as a neutral body in determining the contribution, and that this is free of charge. We also believe that the assistance of the Social Security Office will help the parties to engage in dialogue and understand the importance of cooperation for the sake of the child. On this basis, the majority consider that the fee should not be removed. In one field, there is a broad consensus in the setting. It concerns the evaluation of the new legislation. All lots agree on a thorough and detailed evaluation to extend over time. We assume that the evaluation of the new legislation will be carried out in three blocks. Firstly, through the collection of information and key figures related to the change in the rules. Secondly, it is assumed that a broad evaluation will be provided for in the budget for the autumn of 2004. Thirdly, we want the surveys now being carried out by the Statistical Central Agency for the Ministry of Children and the Family to be the basis for an in-depth evaluation which can be presented in a wholesale communication by the end of 2005. With this I will recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1330	Initially, I would like to say that the Workers' Party was one of the parties behind the new rules on contributions – we are not running from it. The new rules were not a proposal to deprive parents of their indisputable responsibility to support their own children. The new rules were not a proposal to pave the way for shared residence. On the other hand, the new rules on contributions were a proposal aimed at: Both parents should contribute to the child's dependability according to its financial capacity, and this should be done in the fairest possible way.The rules should encourage active care by both parents.The rules should be as unambiguous and simple as possible. But life isn't always as simple as we should want. The few think rationally when strong emotions are swinging. We might wish for a situation where Mom and Dad sit down and rationally discuss the best of the children. But all the enquiries I've received tell me that in a life crisis, where feelings are boiling and it tears and wears out in steel lamps and wedding gifts go between walls, children unfortunately become part of the economic settlement. Then the children are more valued than appreciated. By a relatively large number, I would say, it has been argued that we should keep the old rules, because the new rules will turn out unfair. I would therefore like to remind you that the old rules also led to major conflicts and that over 40 pst. of the cases under the old rules were decided by discretion. The old rules included: low height of father as caregiver and mother as occupational. Some would argue, however, that the new rules are more conflicting. However, a majority in the European Parliament stated that they wanted changes to the rules on contributions, such as: were taken into account in the calculation of agreed contact with children and both parents' income. The new rules on contributions mean that more elements are taken into account than before. In the design of the rules, it was important to provide rules that helped to find the point of intersection between justice and an economically and administratively manageable system. The new rules for contributions are based on statistics showing the cost of having a child, mother’s and father’s income, as well as association with the child. So these are the principles behind the new arrangement, and these principles corresponded to Storting's order. Statistics can be used for so many, and I believe that in the financial calculation of the cost of children, the amount is set too low. In addition, the new rules mean that some old schemes are zeroed out. Fathers will no longer receive tax deductions, and mothers will no longer have to tax the contribution. As politicians, of course, we should, as the SV advocates in Document No. The 8-proposal, be concerned about how the poorest come out. The new rules on contributions are not, as I said, a system that will solve all the problems of poverty in Norway. In addition, when a re-advantage between people who initially do not have too much to walk with, this could in most cases be unfair to some. The new rules on contributions repeal what is called the 30/70 rule. This rule is based on the fact that the government has withdrawn 70 cents of each of the heads of fathers paying over the minimum contribution to mothers on transitional benefits. Mothers who go on transitional welfare are the poorest of the loneliest caregivers. In addition, the poorest mothers will receive the same advance contribution as they do today, even if the tax liability falls. Before the final contribution is calculated, a father is assessed for his ability to pay. The same principles are then applied as those applied by the Debt Scheme Act. The new rules also amend the rules on advance contributions. Those with the lowest income will receive a larger advance, those with the medium income will get the same net as today, the richer will get somewhat reduced, while for the richest it will go away. Some have been concerned that rich fathers should continue to pay a percentage of their income in order to raise their standard of living on the basis of father’s income. The new rules on contributions have provided an opportunity to apply for additional contributions in cases where father has a particularly high income. Regardless of the contribution scheme, the individual mother and father will determine how and how the income of the parents is to benefit the child. Father can freely set aside money that the child can receive in addition – but he does not have to go through his mother. The introduction of the new rules on contributions also entails the introduction of a fee. The imposition of the fee was primarily due to two reasons. Firstly, a cost-neutral reform was desirable and the fee for the public setting of the contribution was set at the same level as the legal fee by the majority. Secondly, it was the wish that as many parents as possible arrange this on their own. But here too we protect them without paying ability. The fee mechanism is intended to be central in motivating as much as possible to enter into private grant agreements. We know that in many cases this can be very difficult, but caring for your own children is a private matter where your parents have the primary responsibility. In some cases, exemptions from the fee obligation have been granted, including: for persons with low income. In addition, it is fully possible to seek advice and guidance from the social security office as a neutral body in determining the contribution. Such guidance is free of charge. The assistance of the Social Security Office shall be capable of helping the parties to engage in dialogue and understand the importance of cooperation. A debate on rules of contribution may continue to be a technical debate. It is therefore important to stick to the principles and give the new rules a small chance to work, but not for so long that some people face major financial problems that go beyond their children. Document No The 8 proposal calls for an evaluation of the new legislation to be carried out. The Labour Party will point out that in its letter to the Committee, the Council of State states that the Central Bureau of the State is already carrying out such investigations on behalf of the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, and we trust it. The working party also supports the presentation of a broad evaluation during the budgetary procedure in the autumn of 2004 with a view to submitting a notification to the Stortinget by the end of 2005. Finally. In the light of all the misgivings I have received, I am personally very concerned about what is happening now. I therefore ask the Council of State to follow closely into this and assess the real cost of having children. Slalåmski, school excursions, leisure activities and new clothes cost, and this must be included in the economic cost calculation. I ask the Council of State to include this in the new calculation basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1385	Today, we are discussing a private proposal by the depositors Karin Andersen, Magnar Lund Bergo and signed to evaluate and adjust unintended outcomes of the new contribution rules, which enter into force on 1 October 2003. SV does not want a rematch, as the Progress Party claims, but we believe that there have been various unfortunate results that require adjustments. We are pleased that the Workers' Party, which was one of the perpetrators, also sees this. Of course, it will also be important to look at how the new rules on contributions work over time, but there have already been significant distortions affecting the poorest in particular. In particular, unsatisfied beneficiaries and contributors have children's supplements in the social security system. We can't afford to wait to correct these distortions until the rules have worked over time. We cannot take responsibility for the fact that someone with already a low standard of living is going to have a further deterioration in the economy, which is going to hit the kids extra hard. We have enough of numbers and other bases to change some of the worst outcomes already now and thus be able to prevent serious problems for families where child support is an essential part of the economy. The children must not become the big losers after the introduction of the new scheme. Lone carers face many challenges, and the new rules must not create a greater distinction between children living with both parents and children living alone with one of the parents. The aim is that the new rules do not create new and poor people in Norway and push even more into line with social services. SV would point out that many residence parents have a significantly deteriorated economy following amendment of the contribution rules applicable from 1 October 2003. It shows many dubious enquiries to many of us magnification representatives. The despair expressed has many common denominators. I'll be careful to mention some of them. The new rules on contributions provide lower contributions, and since there is a balance between women who are single parents, this means that most women are now receiving less advice under the new rules on contributions. At the same time, a maximum limit has been introduced as a basis for the calculation of children’s contributions to the amount of up to DKK 600000 received by the contributor, while no minimum limit has been introduced for children’s contributions to beneficiaries. The contribution rules were changed from a percentage model to a cost model. While the contribution has so far been calculated on the basis of a fixed percentage of the contributor's income, the new rules underpin the beneficiary's income and the degree of association, while the new standard budgets of the State Institute for Consumer Research are used as a cost per year. a child. In addition, expenditure on transport in the event of a combination shall be shared. The results are significantly lower for most, and as mentioned above, especially for high-income contributors. The new rules on contributions are complicated, and this increases the possibility of conflict. Both the amount of the contribution and the extent of the association could be subject to ongoing conflicts and repeated negotiations. It may also mean that contributors may wish for more and more association than they would otherwise have done, while beneficiaries may wish to limit their association in order not to lose out financially. This is very unfortunate, and it can develop into the opposite economically motivated interests between parents in relation to the extent of the child’s right to co-occurrence. In particular, where the relationship between parents is poor, the new rules on contributions will increase the scope for conflict. Anyway, the kids are the biggest losers when their parents are in conflict. When the rules on contributions were being discussed in the Storting in June 2001, SV went against the proposed cost model, which we believe does not take sufficiently into account the best interests of the children. It does not take into account the wide variation between the cost of child care and the cost of living. The average standard consumption budget of SIFO is a minimum standard budget. It implies that children are not allowed to participate in the standard of living of the contributor when the contributor has high income. SV is generally concerned that the new rules on contributions lead to increased differences between children who live with their parents, whom I was in the community and who can benefit from both parents’ finances, and children of divorced parents. Another problem with the rules on contributions is that low-income contributors do not receive any improvement in the new model, whereas high-income contributors are reduced and pay significantly less than they do today. SV believes it is important that both parents should be able to have relations with their child, but we are concerned that economic motives may overshadow the best interests of the child when parents negotiate association. Instead of the cost model for which the Workers' Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Advance Party agreed, SV proposed an improvement to the already existing model, the percentage model. There were several authorities with sound child-reliance skills who, together with the SV, wanted to improve the percentage model, and several of them were opposed to using costs as a starting point for determining contributions. SV opposed the imposition of a fee on the determination and modification of contributions by having a neutral body that provides for contributions, which is impossible to cooperate on for parents with a high level of conflict. It is important to ensure the best interests of children in a difficult life situation for all parties. The size of the contribution does not become a conflict area in itself, and the focus can be on finding solutions for cooperation. It's definitely for the children's best. The SV also proposed that the Government should take the initiative in a low-threshold offer, where families in crisis may receive financial advice and guidance in relation to conflict management as a result of a break-up. We who have promoted this document No. The 8th proposal, proposed three proposals: ‘1. The Government is asking the Government to adjust the unintended and unreasonable nature of the new rules so that they do not affect those with the lowest income until the rules enter into force on 1 October 2003.2 The Government asks the Government to consider removing the mediation fee, which is too many an economic promise, and which may result in an increased conflict between parents and the children.3. The Government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the new legislation for the calculation of child contributions by the end of 2004, as requested by the majority of the Family, Culture and Administrative Committee in Innst. [[2000-2001]] O. No 127 The cost model used in the new rules on contributions places a price tag on the child based on a minimum level calculated from SIFO rates. By promoting this private proposal that we are debating today, SV wanted to take the majority view of the Committee, where it is clearly said that if unintended effects occur that affect those with the lowest standard of living, this should be corrected. A continuous assessment of the contribution rates by the Ministry is also needed to ensure that there are no more systematic and serious unintended effects of the new contribution rules. Today, the majority of people vote against large parts of our proposal to wait for a further evaluation of the new contribution rules before making any changes. We don't need any more numbers and phones from desperate parents to prove that the new rules of contributions are wrong for the poorest and most vulnerable in our society. We need action and willingness to change the rules now, before they come into force. I and SV appeal to the majority to vote in favour of SV's proposal in this case, which affects so many, especially many children. I'm taking up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1439	The representative of May Hansen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1442	For the Christian People's Party, the child is in focus. The new rules on contributions are based on standard rates for child support expenditure, precisely because child support is the focus of attention. From this onwards, the contribution to the children shall be borne jointly by the parents, just as by parents living together, and shall be broken down by financial capacity. In addition, the degree of association shall be taken into account. There is a strong political consensus to facilitate increased parent-child relationships. The rules on contributions are not – and should not be – an instrument of wage balancing between parents who have separated layers. This is an important change in the current rules, which determines the contribution according to the resources of the contributors, freed from the needs of the child and irrespective of the income of the beneficiaries. Work on a new contribution scheme has been in progress for a long time. Several governments and government councils have been involved in this complicated work. The contribution model has been treated under five government councils from several governments. But it was the government of Stoltenberg that in March 2001 presented Ot.prp. No 43 on the amendments to the Children’s Contribution Code. The majority then adopted the amendments to the law in June 2001. The majority consisted of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Left and the Advance Party. The new scheme was adopted by a broad majority of the Stortinget. That's what's now being followed up. The proposals of the Socialist Left on the adjustment of the rules on contributions before they enter into force and on the removal of the system of charges have been rejected by the majority of the Committee. The Socialist Left Party was opposed to this arrangement when it was adopted, and it may be natural for them not to join the majority in this matter. Contributions to the children shall be made jointly by their parents. The new legislation is not a coercion. Parents are free to make their own contributions and get together. For both children and parents, that is usually the best thing. However, the rules are a tool for setting up private contracts. The social security system can help with calculation and, if desired, with collection, free of charge. Fees shall be levied only where the public decision is required to fix the contribution. Some beneficiaries will receive lower contributions than they do today and some contributors will receive higher contributions than they have today. When you add a completely different way of calculating contributions, where many more components play in, it will affect many, either in the negative or in the positive direction. In a debate on the introduction of children’s contributions, it is easy to get into a blind street and just look at conditions that reinforce the negative, and thus ignore factors that work in the opposite direction, such as:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t taxes on contributions will lapse in the new rules’ contribution will be fully retained hereafter also for those receiving transitional support expenditure on childcare – kindergarten, SFO, etc. – shall be included and be provided to be distributed to dependants with the cover of 66 pst. of the expenditure on the supervision of children of the tax class 2 government staff deduction is increased by NOK 3000 in the minimum annual deduction from 23 to 24 p.m. and the maximum amount is SEK 2700 per year. The Committee’s decision not to remove the fee scheme and not to amend the new legislation before the entry into force of the legislation is very distinct. The new contribution scheme has, as the Committee also points out, been the subject of criticism. But it is positive that the Committee also sees the importance of one at this stage remaining calm and not making hasty decisions. It would be unfortunate to make changes to the new legislation before the entry into force of the rules. It is important to get the facts and experience of how the rules turn out in practice, and then we have to carry out a thoughtful review in the light of the actual experience. The size has already decided to evaluate the implementation of these rules. The evaluation process, which we are also joining here today, is already under way. The changes in the rules on contributions are a major reform and it cannot be excluded that the new rules can have unintended consequences for some. This is something we're all concerned about to be taken into consideration. It is stated that the expenditure component of the maintenance cost is too low in relation to the actual costs of having a child and that the standard budget of SIFO is too close. We are pleased that large parts of the political environment have supported the fact that the Council of State is already basing the new calculation on the introduction of the new rules. To conclude, the regulatory framework does not take responsibility for providing financial support for its own children away from its parents. However, the rules are not designed to address poverty problems in Norway either.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1485	I don't think it's rare that I've experienced such a strong commitment from as many individuals as I've ever done when it comes to the new contribution regulation. They have made a deep impression on me, and I have to say that I am concerned on many of their behalf. During treatment of Ot.prp. No 43 for 2000-2001 the centre party was negative to introduce the cost model, and we believed that the percentage model should be improved. I recognize a fact, the cost model is attached. I'm not going to do a rematch on it. But I find reason to remember that there were a lot of instances that supported an improved percentage model. I would like to mention the Barneombodet, the Save Children, the NOVA and the Equality Environment. It is safe to say that these are well-qualified children’s institutions. In the new model I want to point to some points that I think give cause for concern. The fact that expenses should not be taken into account in connection with continuing schooling, holiday trips, pocket money and various other expenses that, in isolation, may seem small, but which, over a year, constitute a monthly sum, seems to me to be untimely. Although SIFO's standard budget is not covered by such expenditure, it is a reality that these are also expenditure items which it would have been natural for the department to include. So all of them that pass back with an unanswered question: who should cover the consumption costs that are not included in SIFO's standard budget? There are also other things that are unclear and seem poorly thought out. At least I think it'll give you an unfortunate rash. Other representatives, too, have our say in this matter. It's for those who are not satisfied and others who are receiving children's supplements from the public. The child supplement is considered to be taxable income. My challenge to the Council of State is then: Is it promised that a recipient who receives children's allowances will receive a child's contribution reduced in crowns and thus ends up in an increasingly worsening economic situation? The new rules mean that taxes are not to be paid on child contributions, but the child allowance is to be taxed. When the contribution is curtailed for crowns in relation to the size of the child supplement, many experience it as a tax on child contributions, especially those who are unfit for work. This is, in my view, an unfortunate coordination and one may ask questions as to whether it is the result of what the Odelsting decided on. It is positive that the Committee supports the setting of a continuous and thorough evaluation of whether the new rules on contributions are in line with the previous Storting decision. But I think the Storting should be able to express that those with the lowest income should not be affected. That's why I want as much as I can, especially to encourage the government party to support the proposal of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. It may not be possible for the Right and Christian People's Party to feel that accidental and untimely outcomes should not be adjusted. In the opinion of the Centre Party, social security offices are public service offices, the free principle of which should be the principle. The payment of a fee for the determination and modification of contributions may be seen as an extra tax for parents who already have a high level of conflict and need the help of a neutral body. On that basis, the Central Party would like to be free of charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1506	Actually, there should be no need for this matter and the debate. We are dealing with a matter on which a majority in Stortinget agreed at the Innst. O. No 127 for 2000 to 2001 and adopted shall enter into force on 1 October of this year. The intention in the case of changes in contributions is that both parents should contribute to the child’s dependability according to its financial capacity and that this should be done in the fairest possible way. The rules shall encourage active care by both parents and that maximum contributions should be agreed and managed by the parties themselves. So it has to be private contracts. The last thing has started to work already. The Committee has been briefed that more and more parents who choose not to live together agree on the contribution without any major interference from the social security office. It's a very happy development. Some say that the new rules will only create even greater conflicts between parents. Maybe it will in a transitional phase, but as the change works, I believe it will contribute more to encouraging both parents to much more active care for their own children than today. After all, it is only positive for the child when we know that both father and mother will be active and that there is still a struggle over time with the young. However, the problems that have now arisen in connection with the preparations for the adoption of the decision are worth noting. Everyone in the committee has received dozens, yes, perhaps hundreds of emails telling about reduced contributions and the despair of those who have the least and who are hit most. This is important for me to take seriously. Although legislative changes are not to solve poverty problems in Norway, it is important to listen to those concerned. As was said in the last winter's power debate, the Stortinget should not create a code that sends people to the social office. I believe that this is important to avoid in the debate on the rules on contributions. And we have to do that. We must never forget that what we're talking about here is really the possibilities that children have a right to, even though their parents have chosen not to live together. It is more expensive for the parents who have the child living with them, and it costs to have children. Therefore, I am concerned that the basis for the calculation of what a child really costs — cinema tickets, birthday gifts, summer and winter equipment and leisure activities — is initially too low, even if it is constantly adjusted according to SIFO’s stencil. I could imagine that the government is reviewing again, as some people claim that these are completely different and lower rates than what KS is using for children, among other things. foster home. It is important that the Government and the Minister of Children and Family spend the time until October to go through the cases where some people in different ways get very bad out of the new system, it is those who have children with disabilities, where mother is in social security, or having teens in high school — everyone knows what it really costs. It shall then be possible for all children that father and/or mother have the possibility, for example: a small holiday trip for not least to experience things together. I expect the evaluation of the new rules on contributions to be carried out as soon as possible in 2004, after the law has worked since October 2003, and the Government takes all the enquiries seriously, talks with the affected mothers and fathers and with the children, and also listens to the Children’s Ombudsman, who has received even more enquiries than we have received on the Grand Duchy. We have to be careful so we don't make an A-layer and a B-layer of children who have both parents living with them, and those who for various reasons don't. It is the child's needs that must always be the most important, and then we know that both time and money are of great importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1525	I would like to start by saying that I am satisfied with the committee's decision not to remove the fee scheme and not to make changes to the new legislation before the legislation comes into force. The new contribution scheme has, as the Committee also points out, been subject to criticism in the media relating to individual cases and from individuals who have addressed both the Stortinget and the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. At my discretion, it would be wrong to make changes to the new legislation before the entry into force of the rules, and the most important thing now is to obtain data and experience on how the rules turn out in practice, and then to carry out a systematic review. The purpose of the contribution legislation is to ensure that the child has reasonable custody of the parent with whom the child does not live. The contribution legislation takes into account the fact that the child’s need for means of support is shared between parents according to financial capacity and as fair as possible. It should also encourage continued parental care from both parents. Children’s contributions are a matter of private law and the rules for making public contributions are designed as unambiguously as possible, so that as much as possible contributions can be agreed and managed by the parties themselves – in other words private contracts. Contributions made by the public shall be based on the cost of caring for a child and the income of both parents shall be weighted. The cost of entertaining children in different age groups has been established on the basis of average figures from studies carried out by, among others, young people in different age groups. The State Institute for Consumer Research and the Statistical Central Bureau. This is a significant change in principle in relation to current rules, determining the contribution on the basis of what the contributor can afford, detached from the needs of the child and irrespective of the income of the beneficiary. The principle that co-operation should have an impact on the size of the contribution was widely agreed both in the consultation note and during the deliberations. It is the current costs of association with food, transport and easier leisure activities that have been taken into account in the calculation of the amount of the consensual deduction. This reflects the expenditure incurred by the contributors and which the beneficiaries at the same time save in association. When the contribution will now reflect this, the responsibility of the contributor for the care of the children is highlighted. The rules capture contributors with the worst economy. A new performance assessment is introduced in determining the amount of the contribution, based on the same principles as in the Debt Schemes Act. Those who do not have the money to support children will also not be charged a contribution. In addition to making contributions in comparison to current rules, this impact assessment will be able to motivate more people to take more active care of their children. This will also prevent the build-up of debt contributions where contributors have a poor economy. The tax rules have been amended in such a way that after 1 October 2003, the contributors no longer receive a deduction from the tax and the beneficiaries from the same date no longer have to pay a tax on the contribution. This means fiscal equality for all parents. The spraying rules have also been amended. Beneficiaries with the lowest income will receive a larger contribution advance than today because of tax evasion. Recipients with the weakest economy will still be able to receive greater advances than contributions. The average income will have a net of about the same thing as today. Those with income slightly above average will have somewhat reduced advances, while the advance will fall off for those with high incomes. Summarily, the advance will go to those who need it the most, and those who need it the most, get a little bit more than today. The contribution shall go to the child. The new scheme also removes the rule on the reimbursement of child benefits for transitional benefits paid. This means that beneficiaries with transitional aid will receive the full contribution. In these cases, therefore, the children and the recipients will come out better than they do today, giving the same amount of the contribution. The termination of this reimbursement scheme also means that several may conclude private contracts for the contribution. The new rules on contributions are based on a balance between a fairest possible regime and an economically and administratively manageable system. Rules that can be perceived as fair usually help to mitigate the level of conflict between parents. At the same time, we must be aware that some people have unrealistic expectations of the new rules. If both parents have a tight economy initially, the new rules in and on their own will not improve the situation. However, I believe that the rules as a whole provide a fairer and gender-neutral distribution of expenditure than the current rules. The new rules apply primarily to the public determination of contributions. The rules are criticised for not taking into account the real costs of having children. It is stated that the expenditure component of the maintenance cost is too low in relation to the actual costs of having a child and that the standard budget of SIFO is too close. So has been claimed here today from this pulpit. The standard budget covers the main consumption areas and is intended to reflect a satisfactory and reasonable level of consumption. The size also decided that it was precisely SIFO’s standard rates that would be used to calculate the costs. SIFO has recently developed a new standard budget, which takes into account a changed consumption pattern. The rules are such that when the contributor has high income, the contribution is highest and the beneficiary has low income. The contribution is reduced when the contributor has low income and the beneficiary has high income. Highly low-income contributors shall not pay contributions. Transitional beneficiaries receive increased contributions available because of the abolition of the tax obligation and the reimbursement rule. Contributions to older children are higher than contributions to younger children. A lot of association makes lower contributions, while little association makes higher contributions. This too was the intention of the Stortinget when it was adopted in June 2001. There is no doubt that this reform will bring about changes for many parties, as suggested in the 2001 Odelstingsproposition. Therefore, during a one-year transitional period, transitional rules will apply to those who receive the most significant changes. The evaluation process Stortinget asks for is already under way. The changes in the rules on contributions are a major reform and, of course, it cannot be excluded that the new rules can have unintended economic consequences for some. This is something I take very seriously. It is therefore essential to pool sufficient empirical data and evaluate the new scheme. Hopefully, the presentation of some preliminary trends will be included already in the autumn of St.prp. No 1st@item: A broad evaluation of the budgetary procedure in autumn 2004 will be undertaken in line with the wishes of Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1560	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1563	The Labour Party has agreed with the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party in asking the Government to consider measures to improve the economic situation of families with children living on disability who currently have the least to live on. Introducing the new rules, the child allowance is curtailed in crowns in relation to the size of the child supplement. This is why the vast majority of the unsatisfied and unemployed end up almost losing their child contribution. As a result, many of the poorest children’s families will experience a sharp decline in their economic base. The contribution directly interferes with people's everyday lives. For the Workers' Party, it is important that divorce children or children of single parents receive the amount they are entitled to. I ask the Council of State to comment on it, and ask her specifically to consider these cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1577	The child supplement is justified by the additional costs it incurs as a result of dependance and is therefore not intended to cover the parent’s own costs of living. It's important to clarify it in the first place. The child supplement is income-dependent and is provided only when the parent’s income is below a certain level. Beneficiaries and beneficiaries receiving child supplements in their pension, for example, do not lose the child allowance itself under the new rules, but in some cases the child supplement will be important in determining the contribution, i.e.: the actual calculation of the amount of the contribution. So it'll be the contribution that might be reduced. In those cases where the beneficiary receives child allowances in social security and this has an impact on the determination of the contribution, the specific provisions will reduce the contribution. However, in most of these cases, public compensation will be provided in the form of advance payments. I have asked the Swedish National Works in particular to look at this group as quickly as possible, and it will be done already in the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1588	I think the Department and the Council of State have done a good job in this matter and given us clear and clarifying answers in something that may be difficult to access for some of us. There's complicated models behind this. I want to record two aspects that the Progress Party is only about including in this setting, they are mentioned on page 3 in the second column. One thing goes on the cost of travelling to and from togetherness, which we want to share between parents. However, there are two different collection systems underpinning it. You cannot use the same system for the collection of outstanding travel expenses that you make in respect of contributions, which leads to some failing to pay. The second is the stencil rules for the use of a car, if this is something the Council of State would consider looking at. It's a central problem for some.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1595	First, I want to point out that travel expenses are, as I see it, a private law relationship and not necessarily suitable for the state to go in and regulate it. This the parents can do the way they want it to be. That's also where they made possible a calculation, which they can use if they want. It's not natural, as I see it, to go in for what the Progress Party here suggests. If one opens unpaid travel bills e.g. must be able to offset the contribution, since travel expenses are likely to prevail over the child’s need for food and clothing, if one or both parents have poor financial capacity. This I find difficult. The answer to the second question is probably that travel expenses are bad for a simple and diabolical determination, because the amount of travel expenses will vary so enormously. So the answer is no, we don't see that this is desirable to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1602	I want to read from the majority comments in the Ot.prp setting. No 43 for 2000-2001: ‘This majority points to one of the objectives of the new rules as being:‘The need of the child for means of living shall be shared between parents according to their financial capacity and as fair and as reasonable as possible.’This majority has noted that... some groups may be disadvantaged by the new rules. The aim of this majority is to ensure that the new scheme is as much as possible for those with the lowest incomes. This majority requests that this issue be assessed on an ongoing basis and that any unreasonable responses be corrected.’;» Does the Council of State consider that there have not been enough examples of these rules of contribution hitting them with the lowest income and their children, as the majority said?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1616	The legislation used here is entirely based on what the Storting has adopted in some detail. It is true that the Stortinget said they wanted an evaluation, but the last part of what the Stortinget said was also that after the legislation was in place, one should come back and look at any unintended effects. It's per. the current date is actually a little early for us to say what the SV representative said, namely that there are unintended effects, that the beneficiary will get worse. It's not that simple. Some come out better, some come out worse. It was also intended. But we have per cent. the current date does not provide sufficient background information from the Rikstrygdeverket. Therefore, we will need to see this legislation in place before we can make the final calculations of this. And we're going to do that, as the Storting has foreseen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1623	If we recognize that vacation trips, continuing school, pocket money plus various other things of what I would call everyday expenses, part of children and young people's expenses, but not part of SIFO's standard budget, is my question to the Council of State: Who is going to cover these expenses? Then there is the issue of disability benefits, child allowances and taxes, on which the representative Fallet was involved. I found it positive that the department is working on it, because you feel it is very unfair. So I'm looking forward to the Council of State coming back to it. When it comes to public policy, that's exactly why some of the problem options are pulled out in this Document No. The 8th proposal. There are problems, because the level of conflict is so high that they cannot solve these things privately.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1632	Once again, I would like to point out that this increase has decided that the cost model of SIFO, as it has been calculated for many, many years, is to be taken into account in terms of the cost of caring for a child. It is also this department that has followed up. It is a sober budget, as also described in the motion for a resolution. Nevertheless, it is important to say that our consumption pattern has changed in recent years. Therefore, SIFO has come up with a new standard budget, which will take account of a different consumption pattern than before. This will indicate that the contribution will be slightly higher. It will be implemented from 1 October. As far as this is concerned with the children's supplement, just to establish it, it is decided in Stortinget that the legislation should be exactly as it has been. We're going to follow this closely, and I hope that we'll be able to see how this looks for the small group already in June/July. It's about approx. 1600 people who have asked for help from the social security office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1641	I get to know the Council of State's answer as to whether she believes this by collecting the travel costs is a private law relationship. At the same time, they say something about not being around that important, I think. But it's a disagreement we can live with. What I did not fully understand in the Council's response was this with the possibility of introducing a stencil rule on travel costs. We're concerned about minimising conflict in this case, and when you have individual assessments of the individual vehicles, it's a basis for type-squattering: why are you driving so big and expensive a car when you can buy a cheap Polo? If we, for example, had got some kilometres, this could have solved itself very well. Of course, in the case of trains and buses, it is very easy to solve, but not in the case of a car.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1649	First, I want to establish that association is very important. I think we have one's opinion there. Similarly, we believe that it would not be appropriate to enter into this relationship and manage the collection also of travel expenses. I'm actually holding on to that. As regards the stencil rules for travel expenses, I understand that the proposal may only apply to car use and not other travel expenses. My response is directed specifically at templates in relation to different, variable costs. Equally full, I have to say that I am somewhat skeptical of e.g. to introduce national rates for driving. I think it would be very difficult if we had introduced these kinds of rules in our privacy. I've come to realize that I actually don't want to do that. Then we'd better have a debate on that later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1656	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1659	In most of the cases that we have to deal with in the committee, we get a number of enquiries from the parties involved in one case. This case has been different in this respect. The enquiries have largely come from the beneficiaries, where the enquiries have largely focused on how much less you get at your disposal, and how wrong the figures from SIFO have been. But from the other side, namely the contributors, it has been quiet – very quiet. Some will probably claim that this silence is due to the fact that the contributors are now getting away with a much lower contribution than before, and it is no wonder that they are not saying anything. But I actually think that despite all the gloomy predictions, in fact, the vast majority of contributors want to provide a good life for their children. That's where the key is. It's about making contributions to the kids. The error may often be that the contribution has entered as part of the household, and it is clear that the income disappears. It is now clear that the scheme ending on 1 October of this year has been unreasonable to a large number of contributors. I know matters through my former function as a debt advisor, how contributors have not been able to afford to associate with their children, because the contribution was so high or the contribution part was so large that the contributors simply did not have the power to do so. Where was SV then? Children were reduced in association with contributors because contributors could not afford to be with them. For SV, the child’s best interests must also be as close as possible to his or her parents. When we look at what different conventions and laws say about children's right to get together with both their parents, there must at least be no economic reason why the children can't be with both parents. Other contributors have not had the financial means to contribute large quantities of stress to Christmas, birthdays or confirmations, precisely because the contributions have taken a large part of the income of contributors. This is what they are now giving the opportunity to do. In fact, I would argue that the changes in the rules on contributions will give the child more qualitative time together with both their parents. It is clear that the changes will affect some, perhaps the most in cases where the beneficiary serves well and contributors do not. I cannot help thinking about how many contributors have suffered in silence for many years, because they have not had the opportunity to re-establish themselves due to high percentage contributions that they have had to pay. Therefore, it is good to know that all those who have had very heavy economic conditions because of a heavy percentage contribution, will now get it easier and can look forward to a good and qualitative time with their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1674	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1677	I'd like to say a little bit in the extension of the post to my party colleague. When Stortinget has now discussed this matter, it has appeared from SV, the Center Party and to some extent the Workers' Party as if we have had a relatively long complaint song. The case is that the responses to the new legislation have in no way been entirely negative. There are many parents who have already concluded private agreements on the basis of the new rules, simply because the new rules encourage cooperation, and that the new rules are perceived as fair by many. It is a fact that many contributors have for many years called for a change in the rules on contributions. Many contributors have had a very heavy burden, which has been directly at the expense of getting together with the children. It is contributors who have not had the economy to contribute money to a cinema ticket, to skis, to holiday trips, etc., but who now have an opportunity to do so. I feel that in some of the posts here in the Chamber of some representatives there is an inherent scepticism for those who are contributory – usually father – that they do not want to contribute things to their children, whether it be vacation trips or slalåmski. I feel that there's intelligence from the 68th generation behind such a father hostility. I think the Council of State developed a good word in that context. She said that the new rules give a more "gender-neutral" distribution. I think that's exactly what we have to try to achieve. I have received malicious letters and telephones from some who are not satisfied with the rules; some of them have not received the tax effect of them. But I have also received e-mails and telephones saying that we have to implement these rules. I can quote from one e-mail I have received: please do not delay the introduction of the new rules on contributions. Nearly 15 years of canoeing in order to get more fair contributions rules done, should be enough. This says someone who's typed in to us. It may seem tempting to jump on a proposal from SV that clear, unintended effects need to be corrected. But so far I haven't seen these clear and unintended effects in a big monn. It's obvious that someone gets less and someone gets more, but I haven't seen the big results that aren't meant for the reform. I therefore feel that I cannot vote in favour of the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1692	Like previous speakers, I think it might be wise to say something more about contributors. The ministry has also received a number of enquiries and letters, most of which, of course, are from beneficiaries. But I have also received letters from contributors – from women – who get a little less, but still agree with the changes that the new legislation here brings, because they have also seen that the father of the child – in most cases it is the father of the child – who has actually not had such great opportunities. And many of the fathers -- because most of the men who are contributors, I've got more letters from these too -- express the first concern that we should now stop the whole legislative change, but the second thing they say is that now we finally have the opportunity to give more to our own children, for example. during association or otherwise. And we're not going to forget this either. In the end, I just want to mention one of the three important points that were the objectives of the new child contribution legislation, namely this with private agreements, which some of the representatives have so far been involved in. So it's supposed to facilitate private contributions agreements, and we're already seeing that this has been a success. There are at least 20 000 private contracts, and so far they are private contracts of a size of around 5 000. Some of them have done this on their own because they have been helped by the new calculation model that the Rikstrygdeverket has published on its websites. Others have agreed to continue the scheme they had. Still others – and it is not possible to hide on – have been quite upset because there are so many changes that they have chosen completely different models themselves. Anyway, it's positive that we seem to get thousands – not to say tens of thousands – of new private contracts. As you can see, the Storting must be very satisfied with the compliance with this point in the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1701	I do not know where the representative Knudsen was when I made my contribution, but I would like to repeat: the Labour Party was one of the parties behind the rules on contributions, precisely because there was an injustice in it. If the representative Knudsen understands our concern that children should get the worse, as sutring, it will be on Knudsen's account.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1706	SV is engaged in the best interests of the child and the right of the child to be with both parents and also to have a reasonable standard of living. The councils were in on it in their article: Some get more, some get less. What SV has been dealing with in this proposal is precisely what the committee said, as I referred to and explained instead, that those with the lowest income should be taken care of. This issue shall be considered on an ongoing basis. The unreasonable rashes shall be attempted to be adjusted. It is the responsibility of the Council of State, and it is also our responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1713	I actually agree with the representative Knudsen when he says that today's legislation should change, precisely because many have experienced it as unfair. But we had a different model. But it may hardly be an argument that because the old legislation was unfair, it does nothing about the new legislation can turn negative and unfair. I thought that the representative Knudsen would raid when he used a word like "padish hostility". I'll take a sharp distance from that. We may well be concerned that after the introduction of the new legislation, the children’s economic situation will not be worse. Then I'll remind you of the setting, which the whole committee is behind. It is hardly for anything that all parties, including the Progress Party, are in favour of a continuous and thorough evaluation of the impact of the new contribution legislation. For me, it seemed that in the Progress Party too there might be reason to believe that this might turn out unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1724	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6 [[See page 3041]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1739	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3041]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1747	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1754	During the debate, Mr Ryan presented three proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a ban on the use of cuts from 2005 onwards.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to clarify how the existing cage-housing operation can be replaced by a release operation.’; Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to abolish fur farming from 2013 onwards. The decision asks the Government to submit a plan to enable the industry to convert.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1795	During the debate, Mr Ström put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision consents to Norway taking part in the decision of the EEA Committee No. 168/2002 of 6 December 2002 on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Directive 2002/39/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 97/67/EC as regards additional opening to competition in the Community postal services market, with the exception of the decision to reduce the single area of entry AS to 50 grams from 1 January 2006.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1814	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1843	During the debate, Mr Nistad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The ruling changes policy when it comes to limited driver cards [[driver card code § 32]] Alternatively, between the Committee's suspension and the proposal of the Progress Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1868	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Mr Thore A. Nistad, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Geir Ketil Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is invited to propose a plan of progress and additional funding, other than the current transport budgets, for the deployment of E6 from Oslo to Trondheim as Class A motorway with completion by 2012.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1896	There is an alternative proposal, proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:97 [[2002-2003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1914	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by May Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 3, from May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to remove the public establishment fee and the amendment of contributions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1938	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to consider measures to improve the economic situation of families with disabilities who have the least to live on.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to adjust the unintended and unreasonable nature of the new rules so that they do not affect those with the lowest income before the entry into force of the rules on contributions on 1 October 2003.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-03.ana.ud202e1992	There is no record. Before the meeting is cancelled, the President will draw attention to the fact that the meeting of Odelsting will be held at 1 p.m. 18 to avoid unnecessary ringing and tightening.
