ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e32	Representatives André Kukkestad and Siri Hall Arnøy, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e43	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the remaining meetings of the Stortinge this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e48	I suggest Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Ranveig Frøiland.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e53	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Ranveig Frøiland are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Ranveig Frøiland are considered unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget’s remaining meetings this week. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that today's Storting meeting be suspended at 0 p.m. 12.15 to allow representatives to participate in the Nobel Peace Prize award ceremony in Oslo City Hall. As a result, the President will propose that the meeting be resumed at 9 p.m. 15.30 and continues beyond the regulatory time until the current map has been completed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e69	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Advance Party 25 minutes, Socialist Left Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 20 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that a replacement of lines be given with up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e80	Of a total budget allocation from the financial position of approx. SEK 268 billion on frames 15 and 16, after four weeks of intensive budgetary work, the social committee, the trade committee, has the power to move $22 million. kr. I ask myself the question, and several should do the same: does it have any further purpose, and is the right priority of the precious time of the technical committees to spend three to four weeks in budgetary procedure No. 2 in the Trade Union Committees, when the financial position framework is set out in chapters and items? In the new state of trade-budget treatment, with very limited room for money relocation, the party fractions of the Social Committee have chosen in a very positive and constructive way to write comprehensive comments in the vast majority of health and social policy areas. The different fractions have expressed the future objectives of the respective parties for their health and social policies. A significant number of external consultations from different user organisations in November have provided the members of the Committee with important and useful information on problems facing many users out there. For this reason, the attitude has become quite extensive. Although there are many greetings at home, from Hakadal to Rauland, there is a lot of valuable reading in the verbal part of the present setting. I would particularly recommend the department and the agency to read the settings carefully. It could be that the Storting Social Committee also has something to learn from itself to the Department and political leadership. The 2004 government budget presented by the Bondevik government was and may be worse than last year’s budget proposals in the health and social sector. The proposal to reduce the ISF share from 60 pst. until 40 p.m., sky-high excesses and only SEK 1.2 billion in additional funding for health businesses, no longer for the psychiatry and nothing to strengthen the staffing of the elderly care I experienced as a pure provocation against the Progress Party, where the Government initially closed the doors of real budgetary negotiations with the party. I have previously given tribute to the Minister of Health for his positive follow-up in the implementation of the hospital reform, which his own party strongly opposed. After presentation of the State budget of the year and St.meld. No 5 I am now very uncertain about the future agenda of the Minister of Health for the reform. The rationale for reducing the ISF share from 60 pst. to 40 pst. is declared by the Ministry as being of priority, but this must be a substantiated argument. Today you have an overfinancing of short daily stays, and as I see it, a 40 pst will. ISF share only enhance undesirable priority effects. A reduction in the ISF share from 60 pst. to 40 pst. is well on the way back to framework funding, with healthcare ratios and new waiting list increases. With a budget increase of only DKK 1.2 billion for enterprises, which by the end of 2003, has an accumulated deficit of DKK 2–2.2 billion, the Minister of Health had to know that this would result in a significant cut in patient treatment services in 2004. The accumulated deficit represents an efficiency requirement of 5 pst. in 2004, which cannot be achieved without a significant reduction in the scope and quality of patient provision. Cost cut of 5 pst. represents a reduction in staff of at least 5000 annual works in enterprises. I am very concerned that the treatment measures taken by enterprises in 2004 will increase the number of torch trains and increase the concern and insecurity of the population. Private healthcare services will have a very difficult operating year. With this operating budget for health enterprises and without simultaneously covering most of the accumulated operating deficit, as proposed by the Progress Party in the context of St.prp. 21, I am afraid that the hospital reform can get its year of orbit in 2004. The Budgetary Agreement with the Working Party does not change this picture. The negative development we will have in health businesses in 2004, with cuts in treatment provision and increasing waiting lists, must take full responsibility for the government parties and the Labour Party. Hospital reform has so far been a major success, with a strong increase in production that has reduced waiting lists and waiting time. This would not have been possible if we had not had such a high ISF share as an incentive that has provided more rational and efficient operation of our hospitals. Now that hospitals have suffered a significant deficit, it should not surprise anyone, nor the Minister of Health or the majority of the Stortinge, who has been responsible for a serious under-budget of hospitals both in 2002 and 2003, and now for 2004. I was in doubt when the reform was adopted, whether it was right to organise the reform with five independent regional health companies. Instead, my party and I would like to have an independent hospital directorate. We thought at the time that a stand-alone hospital directorate should be better able to maintain the development and management of DRG and ISF and ensure that hospitals got a predictable economy. It has to be concluded that in the middle of an operating term, the Ministry changes the income base of the enterprises, which gives rise to little thought and unprofessional cutbacks in treatment provision. In my opinion, it is very unfortunate that the administration of the ISF should be in the department, actually managed by the Minister of Finance. I am strengthened in my belief that it was a misassessment not to establish a hospital directorate from the beginning. There is a fallacy on the part of undertakings when they act as if they were exempted from health policy governance. Raw market management and strong centralisation of treatment services do not meet the reform’s objective of offering equivalent services to all irrespective of their place of residence. Proximity, availability and security were also a prerequisite for the reform. In connection with St.meld. No 5 asks the Progress Party of the Government to consider establishing a hospital directorate. So far, restructuring in enterprises has largely affected local hospitals. The Government Parties, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party point out in a joint note that local hospitals should continue to occupy a central place in the specialist health service. An overall committee proposes to ask the Government to carefully review the professional assessments currently available in relation to changes in food supply and emergency preparedness that have been made and are planned. So far, little seems to have been done in terms of management and organisation within the individual hospital. This work must now be given priority by the owners rather than the reduction of emergency functions and the provision of food in local hospitals. The equity ratios in the health sector have increased by over 64 pst in recent years, and both Bondevik I and Bondevik II have been the largest exponents of high equity. As in the current year's budget. I am pleased that the Workers' Party in the budget agreement had significantly reduced the ceiling, but I am very disappointed that the containment was partly done by increasing the general excess. In the current economic situation of health enterprises, the Progress Party finds the allocation to Framework 16 so inadequate that the lot has not found itself able to provide an alternative number budget; the discovery of the necessary additions was completely impossible. This has probably been easier for the Socialist Left Party, which in its alternative trade-union budget has destroyed all private health services. I am referring here to the fact that the Progress Party in its alternative budget increased Framework 16 by a total of DKK 1.8 billion. Not least, the Progress Party prioritised psychiatry in its alternative budget of 300 million. Extra kroner. At my discretion, the psychiatric plan is not in line with Storting's intentions. There have not been many political gains for the Progress Party in this budgetary position, but we are living for a while on the health policy victories we achieved earlier in the autumn with Rusreform II and the Patient Rights Act. I'm going to comment on some of the actions the Progress Party has in the vote, which got a good start in the committee. I am very concerned that the entire construction project New Aarhus is in danger of being wound up because of the lack of investment grants from the state. It's urgent to build a new ahus, both in view of future patients and, not least, because of the university functions and medical training given to Ahus. In concrete terms, we propose that the Government re-assess a higher proportion of investment costs for the construction of Aarhus, so that the construction project currently in place can be realised with the start of construction in 2004. I also point out that the Progress Party is involved in a joint comment with the government parties and the Workers' Party, which assumes that the construction of New Aarhus will start in the spring of 2004, and that this will take place on the basis of the project currently in place. Mental Health has developed a project for the establishment of a learning and competence centre in Skien, the so-called Frogners' Centre, and an application for approval is currently in the department. The establishment of this learning and mastering centre has been fully supported by various user organisations, such as the Norwegian Handicap Federation, the Organisation for the disabled and the Council for Psychiatric Health. As I see it, it should be quite natural that Frogner Learning and Competence Centre in the Ski should be part of the psychiatry escalation plan. The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre promote in the present position a concrete proposal that the Centre of Competence be realised by 2005, starting in 2004. I very much regret that the Labour Party, which also supports the establishment of a learning and competence centre in Skien, does not support the proposal because of the budgetary agreement which could then have been given a majority. The company Bionor in Skien has developed a therapeutic vaccine against AIDS that stimulates the build-up of the body’s immune system. Following the granting of the Storting for the current year, the vaccine has been clinically tested in Ullevål Hospital with very good results, and I have been made aware that Bionor has been in contact from Africa with questions about cooperation on a major clinical trial project in an African country. The Socialist Left Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party promote a concrete proposal asking the Government to consider the possibility of setting up such a project on the clinical trial of the Bionor vaccine in an African country. Research and prevention of ADHD, a disease that, especially in adulthood, causes extreme social problems in the form of alcohol and crime, is not developed in Norway. University of Oslo wants to establish a research centre for ADHD patients that can later be developed as a competence centre for the prevention and treatment of ADHD. A majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Progress Party promote proposals in the vote to ask the Government to consider establishing a basic research centre for the ADHD at the University of Oslo. The representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, made quite a criticism in the budget debate last year because the Progress Party was not able to maintain the general tomb support, a criticism I understood at that time quite well. Now the Workers' Party had the opportunity to get the tomb stand in place, but did not. I ask the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, to explain this. Was not the gravitational support so important for the Workers' Party anyway? Was it only used to criticise the budgetary settlement of the Progress Party with the government parties? Finally, I will address the proposals on which the Advance Party is with other parties on, and our own proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e122	The representative John I. Alvheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e125	Of course, the budget harvest has been marked by the reconciliation between the government parties and the Workers' Party. Not since the war days has the Workers' Party and the Right entered into an agreement on the State budget. Many have argued both for and against the tactical wisdom of the Workers' Party to enter into this budgetary agreement. For us, it has been essential that we have had an impact on important parts of our policies. In its alternative proposal for a government budget, the Labour Party has given particular attention to three aspects relating to the budgetary position of the Social Committee: we have proposed, in our option, to strengthen the economy of hospitals, both by increasing the appropriations by DKK 1 billion and by pushing the requirement for economic balance-of-payments operations in time by one year. In our option, we have proposed that self-employment should not be increased, and in our option we have proposed to maintain current rules in the health pay system. In relation to the Workers' Party's alternative proposals for the state budget, I believe that we in the Workers' Party have reason to be satisfied with the reconciliation with the government parties. Hospitals get 500 million. kr more in basic appropriations in 2004. The requirement for a balanced economic operation is pushed forward one year in time. The ownership stake is not increased from NOK 1350 to NOK 2500, as the Government originally proposed. The equity stake will be agreed on at NOK 1550. We haven't gotten through all of the points. Therefore, we regret that next year's government budget will contain unsocial cuts. Therefore, we regret that we are now getting a change in today's sick pay scheme. Not a major and substantial change, but the social partners and the government have made it clear through the inclusive employment agreement that the sick pay scheme should not be changed. When it does, however, it is perceived as a breach of contract by the country. Nevertheless, I would like to say with full force that the 2004 budget has a clearly better social profile than that agreed by the Progress Party, i.e. the year. In the budget of the year, the burial aid has been phased out as a welfare scheme for all. In the year's budget, all pensioners and non-pensioners, with the exception of the minimum pensioners, have to pay again the excess for medicines on a blue prescription. In this year's budget, the unemployed lost their holiday money. In this year's budget, the baby supplement disappeared. The budget agreement of the Progress Party with the Government last autumn did not give five more ears to hospitals, while at the same time it provided a financial framework for the municipalities that have hit many older people around the country. Everything is not going to be good with this year's budgetary settlement, but the experience from last year until then that it would be even worse with the Progress Party as a settlement partner. So in order to put some important political issues in place, and to put an end to games and speculation, we made a deal with the Government this year in the Workers' Party. We stand for that! Several of the speakers of the Workers' Party will come in on different aspects of the hospitals. Let me say that we are still in a demanding phase in the launch of the major health reform. There is still a lot of work to be done before the new systems are established. In addition, the fact is that in the United Kingdom, health businesses are constantly giving new tasks. Through the health reform, we have ambition, among other things. That we're going to get more health for each of the heads. The new organisation shall improve the effectiveness of patient treatment. It will be good for patients, and it will enable society to increase treatment capacity. Health companies work well to achieve the goals of Stortinget. In such a situation, it is important that efficiency requirements do not become unreasonable. Economic objectives must be achieved if not demoralised to the entire organisation. We in the Workers' Party believe that in its draft budget, the Government put health businesses at risk of unreasonable demands for efficiency. Even after the budget agreement, it is clear that this is going to be tough, but the reports I get from hospitals around the country suggest that we are now actively working with assumptions that can be met. The budgeting of the harvest in health businesses has led to a lot of noise in many places. People feel unsafe about what kind of health services they will receive in the future. In particular, people are concerned about the future of local hospitals, not least in relation to the decentralised food and emergency services. I am pleased that, through the budget setting, the Committee determines that local hospitals have both had and will have a central place in the Norwegian health system. In the 2005 budget, the government will come back to important aspects of the future of local hospitals. For me, however, it is important to stress that the budgetary agreement has provided health care businesses with an economic framework that clearly reduces the need for purely economically motivated changes in the decentralised emergency and food supply. If local hospitals are to be able to carry out their tasks for the future, the policy and the subject must be able to go hand in hand. Medical progress towards more and more border specialities will make it increasingly difficult to maintain good decentralised services. Health policy must therefore cooperate with the health professions. For example, emergency preparedness will often be that the doctor, i.e. the subject, has to be able to stabilize the patient’s condition locally, so that later transportation can be safe. Professional challenges have already led to a number of health businesses deciding on changes in food and emergency services. But these decisions are not taken in a political vacuum where the subject governs politics, as many claim. After all, the business meeting, the Minister of Health, has raised all these issues on his table. And the Minister of Health has made clear political demands on the subject. If the decisions are finally implemented, this is not due to a lack of political governance. Implementation will result from the implementation of political governance. And if the political requirements for implementation cannot be met, the decisions will not be implemented. This is also confirmed by Storting’s treatment today. The majority of the Committee, the government parties, the Labour Party and the Progress Party refer to the fact that the Minister of Health has set clear criteria that must be met before the change is implemented. An overall committee indicates that there is considerable technical disagreement as to whether the proposed changes can be implemented in line with the requirements of the health minister, in order to ensure sound health provision. In this context, an overall committee shall promote the following proposals: ‘The Government is asking for a thorough review of the various professional assessments currently available in relation to the changes in food supply and emergency preparedness planned.’ The Minister for Health has called for the proper provision of health services to be ensured. I have confidence that the Minister of Health will ensure that the requirements are met. If this does not happen, I also have confidence that the Minister of Health will ensure that changes are not implemented. And this is a consequence of political governance. Two major development projects are mentioned in particular in the budget position. This is about Aarhus and new university clinic in Trondheim. In relation to both projects, the working party has chosen to write joint notes with the government parties. It is the Government that has to commit itself to following up these projects positively. Without an active attitude on the part of the Government, the bulk of the population will have to go back to the back. I am therefore very pleased that also the government parties in their remarks now say that a ‘Considers that the development of New Aarhus will start in spring 2004 and that this will take place on the basis of the project currently in place’. In addition, the Government Parties agree to note that: ‘provides for the necessary funding to be made available during the development period’. These are formulations which, in the opinion of the Workers' Party, oblige the Government, and which will thus ensure that until spring we get a construction start at New Aarhus. Similarly, notes that government parties also agree that the planning of phase 2 at St. Olav's Hospital in Trondheim will include a psychiatrist. It's important. Following the fact that, through the examination of the financial position, the Storting established Framework Areas 15 and 16, which were also the subject of the Committee's chair, the Committee's work has led to minor changes to the Government's draft budget. The Workers' Party and the Government's parties have reached agreement through negotiations that are led in a good tone, and I need to commend the representatives of the Government Parties for a very positive attitude to our questions and wishes. In the Committee we make an important political choice. We are creating a new subsidy item for preventive health work. The appropriations are not large, in relation to the total amount of the budget. We're moving in at 10 million. NOK within a frame of nearly NOK 86 billion. But I think this redisposal gives an important political signal. We need to start the difficult work of turning financial resources from repairing to prevention. If we continue as now, it's just a matter of time before our system collapses. We are a rich country, so it will take time. But in the end we will also meet the wall. Public health is characterised by a marked increase in life-style-related disorders. We're getting heavier, more and more struggling with high blood pressure and high cholesterol. An increasing number of people get diabetes 2. More and more people get cancer. We are spending more and more money on medicine and medical services. We need to address this, and it's a social responsibility to help reverse development. But ten million. kr is not that much. That's why it's important to think about how to get the most out of each of these heads. By cooperating with voluntary teams and organisations, we will have effects that far exceed the amount we put in. Therefore, we target the new grant scheme in relation to non-governmental organisations. Furthermore, we say that we have to start with the younger ones, and we have to work especially to get the young people into increased physical activity. I am very pleased that the Norwegian Sports Association now places such emphasis on prevention, and I am pleased that the comments state that Norway’s Sports Association should be given priority when allocating funds. With this I address the proposal from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e200	The representative of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e203	The 2004 budget remains high in the area of health and social protection. An important priority in the budget is to continue our central welfare systems, above all in the interests of the people. However, developments in this area are very worrying. It is a growing problem that we have fewer in work and more in social security. Many remain outside the ordinary working life for a long time, and social security costs are increasing. At the end of 2002, 292,000 disability pensioners were registered, 98 000 people received rehabilitation or re-routing money, and 33 500 were AFP pensioners. This means that by the end of 2002, about one in five working-age Nordics had social security as their main source of income, more than 400,000 people. In addition, social security funded sick leave amounted to around 100 000 yearly jobs at the end of 2002. The total amount of these schemes in 2004 is almost DKK 90 billion. The challenges related to old age pension come to the fore, and will be addressed with full weight in the coming years, especially after 2010. We are in a situation similar to that of most other countries in Europe. The number of old-age pensioners is increasing, life expectancy is increasing, while the number of active persons for each pensioner is falling. This happens at the same time as oil revenue falls. One myth is that Norway has a good starting point because we have the oil fund. The truth is that, among the OECD countries with which we normally compare ourselves, we have the biggest challenge associated with increased expenditure on population protection by 2050. I belong to the generation that will be affected by pension reforms. In the media, there are often graphs that show how I'm going to get out in relation to today's pensioners with different models. It's an irrelevant comparison. Today’s level and privileges are not an alternative — there will be a breakdown. If we choose, who is responsible for the future pension obligations, to remain calm and hope that it passes, the system will collapse before my generation becomes an age pensioner. It is therefore essential that the work of the Pension Commission be followed up. If we are to see our children in our eyes and say that we were willing to reform the welfare society at a time when it was not too late, we must do it now. In this perspective, the government's welfare policy is the only sustainable one. We have been told a lot by both trade unions and a number of stakeholder organisations. That's understandable. Each well-being has its own reasons and a strong interest behind it. There are also major demands for the improvement of these goods. But perhaps those who represent the weakest in society should ask themselves the question: Who really are our most important friends? Are there those who say yes to all claims, and will not make changes? It can be provocative in a short-term perspective. But who wants most of the welfare society as we know it today, collapses by its own weight? It is not those who have a fixed income, it is all those who are caught today by the trap of poverty – those who are permanently out of work, for various reasons. The strategy for those who have fought for welfare goods to cover all has been successful with one objective: everyone shall benefit from the schemes and thus stand in the way of the necessary changes. The Progress Party has discovered this mechanism in its neo-populistic period and has thus become the system's hottest defenders. The idea that one should redistribute from everyone to everyone is an unexposed bomb under the welfare community as we know it today. The government follows up its targeted effort to improve the welfare community for those who need it the most. The government has proposed and joined the government, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t high-recorded efforts to combat poverty record investment in the psychiatry plan to reduce the barriers of people with disabilities – The government has recently presented a plan of 120 concrete measures to promote access to all areas of disabled people establishing a top-level funding model for resource-intensive users implementing the drug reform – which improves rights for drug users I would like to highlight three main challenges for health policy in the future. The first is to succeed in a public health strategy that reduces the need for healthcare and medicine. We know that the most important contribution to our improvement in health has not been medical development, but our welfare development. Now it's important that this wealth doesn't make us even more dependent on health care, but that we manage to take a greater responsibility for the good life itself. The second is the implementation of psychiatry. The government's proposal for a record increase and a prolongation of the period is crucial for success. The third is to ensure that the hospital reform continues to deliver positive results in terms of better provision for patients and more health for each krona. The objectives of the public health communication are now being followed up by concrete measures. In the government proposal, there is a total public health package of 131.4 million. kr. In addition, the Government Parties and the Workers' Party of the Committee have agreed on an additional effort – in reality 16 million. kr – on prevention work under the direction of non-governmental organisations. 10 of these million will be used to facilitate physical activity for children and young people. In this context, I would like to highlight the good work and the hard work done by the outdoor organisations. They facilitate the use of nature in neighbourhoods and have their own arrangements to motivate children and young people to be active outdoors people. The budget earmarked for the implementation of the psychiatry plan in 2004. Over the period 1999–2004, 3400 commitments for the construction of housing will be made for mentally ill people. This means that the target figure for the escalation period is planned to be reached in 2004. The increase from 2003 to 2004 is about 700 million. kr. This is the largest increase in one year over the entire planning period. We have now had another year of experience with the health reform. Despite the rise in recent months, there is another important picture of the reform: waiting times to be cut short, waiting lists to be reduced, record-high activity growth and record-high allocation. This happens at the same time as we received more treatment for the first time in 2002 for each krone used in healthcare. Efficiency is increasing. Health businesses address a difficult issue such as functional distribution and base their professionalism and patient safety when planning their activities. The challenges are great, and health businesses have a tough job of converting. That's why I'm glad that, together with the Workers' Party, we have increased the allocation by SEK 1/2 billion in addition to the growth of NOK 1.2 billion that was already available from the Government. Combining this with a postponement of the 2005 balance sheet requirement will improve the business performance assumptions. I am pleased that, together with the Workers' Party and the Advance Party in the adjustment, we have consistently agreed on the governance signals to the companies for 2004. It's important, and it's the country's patients who serve on this. The right is in this budgetary position on a proposal which is a violation of our major elections programme. It is the proposal to reduce the share of input-driven funding. The reason why we can participate in this is the challenging situation of enterprises. This is a high level. This would result in a significant prioritisation on the part of undertakings. In a governance challenging situation, this is a tool to which regional enterprises have been positive, including: in consultations with the Committee. We have to keep an eye on how this turns out. In particular, attention must be paid to the ability of regional undertakings to care for private hospitals. The government and Stortinget have given clear control signals about this. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Labour Party for its clean budgetary cooperation. I would also like to present a challenge to SV, which has its own proposal for distribution within the framework. I am very surprised that they are, in fact, proposing over 1.2 billion kroner less to hospitals than what is being adopted today. They order them to assume responsibility for reimbursement to private specialists, laboratories and the X-ray institute, but they take 758 million. NOK of this money and spend it for other purposes. I want to challenge the SV's representatives to confirm these figures in the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e272	I'm going to concentrate mainly on my article on the budget frame 15, i.e. The Ministry of Social Affairs' budget, and then Olav Gunnar Ballo will take care of the health budget in his statement. Some of what SV see as the most important challenge in social and welfare policy is to find measures that can reverse the very negative trend of an increasing number of people now out of work, either because they are unemployed, long-term sick or unemployed. The next year, it is expected that sick leave in Norwegian working life will again increase, as it has done in recent years, and it could be high in record numbers. At the same time, 300,000 people will be on disability. In total, the cost of sickness benefits and disability benefits amounts to DKK 70 billion. Many would say that these are very large numbers, as was Bent Höie too. Yes, it is. But the most worrying thing is not, however, the amount of money isolated, but the fact that many of those who receive either sickness, disability or other benefits have a strong desire to have an active life, but cannot get it. What we need to be concerned about in such a situation is what we can do from the Stortings side to facilitate that several of those who are now ill or ill-satisfied can get back to work. In such a situation, SV will not fall for the temptation to weaken the social systems so as to save money, as Right will, cf. Bent Hoeie's post. This is not the way to go. A modern welfare state in a rich country such as Norway, as SV sees it, must have good and safe economic and social arrangements when sickness, injury or other conditions make it impossible for people to live in short or longer periods of time through paid employment. This is fundamental in the welfare and social policy of the SV. Instead of focusing on the weakening of welfare systems, the SV will focus on the underlying causes of a high level of sick leave and a high proportion of the underprivileged. In recent years, Norwegian working life has become considerably tougher and demands more and more efficiency and change. Private business owners are increasingly demanding returns and profits. In the public sector, more efficiency is also required. Fewer employees have to do even more than before, staff in the care services have to jump even faster, and municipal services have to be outsourced to find out how few employees are able to manage to get the necessary work done. The result of this brutalization is now seen with a sharp increase in sick leave and the number of unsatisfied persons. A large part of the workforce is simply excluded from the labour market because, for various reasons, they do not have the efficiency mechanism and all the conversion requirements in this respect. And this actually leads to people getting sick. This is confirmed by the general practitioner and specialist in social medicine, Olav Røyneland, who stated to NRK Telemark two days ago that efficiency and reorganization in enterprises make people sick. Conversions and the threat of disembarkation make people simply meet the wall, he says, with a background in their contact with patients. This must be taken seriously by the Storting. It must be a cross of thought for the majority in this Chamber who, year after year, have provided such a tight community economy that, among other things. employees in the care sector in municipalities now have a working day and a working situation that is very hectic and where they feel that they are getting so short that they get sick from it. The agreement on a more inclusive working life, concluded between the social partners and the state, aims to prevent further social outbursts. It should facilitate the return of many of those who have already fallen outside, and that more people can work longer than they can do today. This makes great demands on all three parties to this Agreement. Employees shall be actively involved in work organisation and work to prevent and avoid injury and disease. Similarly, employers are obliged to contribute to this. However, it is also essential that business owners and managers recognise the range of the growing pressure that today characterises large parts of Norwegian working life. This is a senseless management of the country's and industry's most important resource, namely the labour force of employees in a broad sense. If these developments — where more and more are being pushed out — continue, industry will simply be lacking in labour. And it surprises me that no more business leaders understand the consequences of this, that in this way they are directly and indirectly in the process of destroying the basis of their own existence. SV attaches great importance to the responsibility of the State in relation to the agreement on a more inclusive working life. This responsibility is borne by the social security system on behalf of the State. In this context, so-called work centres have now been established in all 19 counties of the country. Many are disappointed that the agreement so far does not seem to have given the results that many had hoped for. Such disappointment may be understandable, but at the same time, I think everyone has to admit that the trend we have seen in Norwegian working life in the last few years is not going to turn around overnight. However, EN strongly believes that the Memorandum of Understanding could have an impact and contribute to fewer job and employment impacts, and that more people are returning to work more quickly. But then we have to strengthen the instrument we have. And as SV sees it, it means that the 19 work centres need to be significantly strengthened with both crew and competence. It is these centres that should be the country's main instrument in the work of a multi-employee working life. SV therefore proposes in its budget, which we are promoting here today, to strengthen this part of the social security budget by 75 million. kr. This will help more people stay in work and more people return to active work more quickly. SV also supports proposals to draw up a stepping-up plan for work centres, both in terms of staffing and competence. Unfortunately, in its draft budget, the government is going the opposite way to what SV wants. It is proposed to tighten both the rules on sick pay and the rules on rehabilitation. When, on the basis of the Government's proposal, workers have to have a stronger link with the labour market in order to receive sick pay, there is no fewer who get sick for that reason. No, the only result of this tightening is that when a person gets sick for example. three weeks in the labour market, he/she has to live without sickness benefit. But there is no one who believes that people are getting better from it, is there? SV distances from an approach to social and medical problems which have as their starting point that such problems will be reduced only the financial arrangements are bad enough! This change will therefore be in favour of SV. Similarly, when the Government proposes tightening up the rules on rehabilitation money, it does. For different reasons, some people will need a slightly longer rehabilitation course than most others. That is why, until now, we have also had legislation that has allowed us to go beyond the time-limited period that is the main rule of the scheme. This rule of exception is now severely tightened. It will in practice mean that some of those who need extra long time in their rehabilitation arrangements will not be able to complete this and thus have less opportunities to get into work. In other words, one achieves the opposite of what SV is an important goal; as much as possible that wants it and has the ability to do it, in active work. Therefore, SV is moving towards this tightening of the budget. The government is proud of what they think is a strengthening of the efforts to combat poverty in this draft budget, and points out that they are increasing the effort by 240 million. kr. I am not particularly impressed, because, at the same time as this increase, the government is now tightening up in terms of sick pay, rehabilitation, disability pension schemes and aid for disabled people – a total of 410 million. kr, i.e. almost twice as much. In addition, increases in the proportion of excesses total some of them. 900 million. kr. These are tightenings that not only, but to a large extent, affect those who already have a relatively tight economic environment. Even more grumbling becomes the contrast when we know how many of those who have the most to go with, next year too, will benefit from billions of tax reliefs that this government in the previous two years' budgets has proposed and received a majority vote for together with the Progress Party here in the Chamber. In such a perspective, the fight against poverty of the Government will be lost and puzzled, and the differences between those who have the least, and those who have the most, will also increase next year, as a result of the policy of the government of Bondevik. I address the suggestions SV alone or together with others have promoted in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e321	The representative Sigbjørn Molvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e324	As the rapporteur for the public health report, I am very pleased that health policy is now turning more towards prevention. It is granted 131.4 million. SEK for a public health package in 2004. This means a real increase of DKK 28.3 million. Health disorders are mainly related to lifestyle factors such as tobacco, drugs, diet and physical activity. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to the country's serving sites being smoke-free from 1 June next year. We think it is positive that an action plan for increased physical activity should be drawn up. Lack of physical activity increases the risk of cardiovascular disease, diabetes and a number of other diseases. It is important that good habits are incorporated at an early age and that the school stimulates physical activity. In order to facilitate more physical activity during leisure time, the government parties, together with the Workers' Party, have created a new item of 10 million. kr. This shall go to non-governmental organisations engaged in physical activity, in particular to children and young people. The subscription scheme for fruit and vegetables in school will double next year. School health services should be better adapted to young people and new challenges related to health and living habits. The Christian People’s Party believes that priority should be given to children and young people. The Amathea Advisory Office is an important partner in the prevention of abortion, and we see the need to strengthen the post by 500 000 kroner. The provision of treatment to drug users is strengthened. The aim is to terminate the waiting lists for medically assisted rehabilitation. An increase of 20 million. kr will make this possible. In addition, low-threshold health services are continued so that drug users can receive adequate health care. Too many worn-out drug addicts, such an offer can save lives. Many non-governmental organisations are making great efforts in relation to drug users. The Christian People's Party is grateful that the Workers' Party chose to increase the voluntary drug-prevention work by another 6 million. kr in cooperation with government parties. The mental health plan will be expanded by two years. User organisations have wanted this, and it is in line with the needs of the Storting. The investment of over 700 million. kr for the next year is the maximum allocation currently available for the escalating period. It's not right, as the manager said, that the allocation doesn't increase. Commitments for furnished dwellings show that the plan's target of 3,400 dwellings will be met next year. After four years of bet, we see results. More than 10,000 children and young people were assisted by specialist health services in 2002 compared with 1998. It's an increase of 51 pst. At the same time, we see that almost as many people are asking for help, and so the waiting time doesn't go down as much as we want. But more people are looking for help, and more people are getting help. It's important. In meeting the management of health companies, it is said that the Minister of Health is clear in his management documents. Priority shall be given to children and young people. This is what I and my party wholeheartedly support. It takes time for user involvement to be real at all levels. It is good that one of the measures put in place in 2004 is that user involvement will become an independent criterion for quality assessment. The budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party has led to an increase in self-interest less than proposed by the Government. The ceiling is $1,550. The minimum pensioners among the old-age and invalidity pensioners shall continue to be exempted from the abstinence of medicinal products on a blue prescription. The Christian People's Party wants the propensity to be more focused. When almost 900000 people were exempted in 2002, it shows that the scheme has become too general and covers many with a relatively normal consumption of healthcare. The agreement with the Workers' Party has led to an easier situation for the specialist health service. In addition to an increase of SEK 1.7 billion, health enterprises have postponed the opening balance by one year. This leads to a historically high level of patient treatment. Today we see that waiting lists and waiting times have been significantly reduced. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that a priority should be given to helping those who need it the most. The Christian People's Party supports changes in the basic allocation with an increase from 40 p.m. to 60 pst., against a corresponding reduction in the ISF rates from 60 pst. to 40 pst. For us, it is important that this gives us the opportunity to give priority, for example. psychiatry, which is currently not covered by the ISF scheme. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that regional health companies continue to use the capacity, both in their own businesses and in the private hospitals and clinics with which they have agreed. Nevertheless, we see the need for some expansion. Today’s budget provides strong leadership and assumes that the development of New Aarhus can start in spring 2004. In Trondheim, work will continue on the pre-project for phase 2 of new university clinic. The Christian People's Party is concerned that a psychiatrician is included in phase 2. It makes the impression when 15 000 people go on torch trains in Arendal to preserve their hospital. It is important that everyone has a good and safe health service, regardless of their economy and their place of residence. An overall committee is behind these values. In addition, it is clarified that a desire for a decentralised emergency and food supply. We see it as a proper development when it is arranged for dialysis and cell toxicity treatment near the patient's home, so that the sick person escapes long and tiring journeys. Patients are getting more and more power and influence. We have just adopted a legal right to treatment within individual deadlines set on a medical basis. It's free hospital choice. From next year, regional health enterprises will take over new tasks. Treatment aids, sick transport and follow-up to drug reform are examples of new challenges. The Christian People's Party has confidence that this is going well. At the same time, we recall that pain treatment and care at the end of life should be intensified. It's in this meeting our values are being tested. The government provided a budget to get more people to work. After a difficult period for Norwegian business, optimism seems to be coming back. Several jobs are too many the most important way out of poverty. Most people want to support themselves and their own through their own income. Disabled people continue to strive to be included both in the workplace and in society elsewhere. The Budgetary Agreement with the Workers' Party has allowed this group to have a function assistant. Such an assistant may provide practical assistance at the workplace. This may also lead to the possibility of highly reduced mobility being economically active if they so wish. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to us treating St.meld. No 40 for 2002-2003, which contains 120 concrete measures to reduce the barriers of society to this group. An overall committee sees the need for greater flexibility in the way older people can combine work and social security. A larger amount of free time before curtailment of a pension is positive. It is important that this trend is further developed, so that more people are at work. Many minimum-pension couples are pleased that the co-ordination effect of the basic pension is now less. This means increasing revenue, while at the same time developing the basic amount in line with wage developments. For older people who have to live in a municipal institution, it is absolutely essential that the medical coverage is good. It may have significant negative consequences for the elderly if they are not correctly diagnosed and therefore not given the correct dosage of medicine. This Christian People's Party wants to follow up on the quality message for spring. Let me remind you that everything today can be imposed on local authorities by public medicine when they enter into contracts. In conclusion, I would particularly like to thank the fractional leader of the Workers' Party, who has conducted negotiations with the government parties in a constructive and tidy manner. It shows the willingness to take responsibility, and I feel convinced that it benefits patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e373	Everyone who stands here in these days talking about their professional budget does seem to be the biggest and most important budget as a treater there and then. The same is true of us who are now dealing with the framework areas 15 and 16 in terms of the social and health aspects of the state budget. That it's big is clear. These two framework areas deal with about half of the state budget, and at the same time they are important. In the opinion of the Centre Party, health and social policy is the largest welfare policy issue and the largest area that we can take care of from this House. The central party has chosen to stand outside the framework laid down by the majority in the budgetary agreement. We want to have a higher profile of some of the social policies in the framework area 15, but we want to have a larger framework, especially in the framework area 16. Let's do that, for example. in order to secure hospitals an operating capital and action framework other than that of the majority in favour of today, and also in order to strengthen the work of psychiatry and rehabilitation in a better way than that of the majority. The government has come up with a message against poverty and has said that the problem of poverty should be taken seriously and combated. Then it's quite funny that the government in this state budget is promoting proposals that work directly unsocial and that actually promote differences and increased poverty. We believe that the constraints proposed by the Government in terms of hospital pay, rehabilitation and rehabilitation, as well as in terms of support schemes to help people with disabilities in their everyday lives and in their working lives, are increasing disparities and increasing poverty development. In addition, we believe that the increase in ownership, including in the case of the free card scheme, working in the same way – poverty-developing. We are pleased that the agreement between the Government and the Workers' Party led to the self-employed, the free card system, not being NOK 2 500, but to a slight reduction. However, I am somewhat surprised that the Workers' Party did not help to maintain the credit card system at the level that is today. There are at all quite a number of areas where this agreement still has very unsocial aspects, despite the fact that the Workers' Party was given the opportunity to influence the budget as much as they were given. We're spending money on sickness and rehabilitation schemes so that they don't change, but we see that this is going the wrong way. We are concerned that the number of sick, unemployed and early pensioners is increasing considerably. We think it is bad that so many disabled people and disabled people are out of work, as it is today. But we believe that this has to do with what part of the working life today calls brutalization in professional life. rationalisation and streamlining, not least in the public sector, lead to more people falling out and at least to a break, not least in the care professions. The current pressures on the local government sector, including: from the municipal minister, we believe that we have a working situation for many of these who lead to a medical report. In the next round, the demand for rationalization and efficiencies becomes a very expensive experiment, and we regret that. So a little bit about this with resource-intensive users out in the municipalities. The centre party, together with SV, promoted in our proposal that there should be a state top funding of this, which meant that expenditure over 600 000 kroner per year. user would be covered 100 pst. by the State. We could have had a majority for this together with the Labour Party and the Advance Party in ours, but unfortunately that was not the case. Instead, the Progress Party will now come up with a proposal of 100 pst. State funding for all these users. It's a little strange that a change of position so fast, while one could not be on a scheme that would clearly have been better than the one that became, namely that the municipal bill now amounts to NOK 700,000, and the coverage from the state is only 80 pst. of a certain level of expenditure on this. It is regrettable to see that this system is too bad, and that we get the same results as we do, among other things. have been seen in the media in the last time from the municipality of Nesodden. We are pleased that the Government has now made the proposal that the Centre Party made earlier this year, namely to abolish the employer's share of 0.5 G in terms of organising jobs for disabled people and people with disabilities. We are happy about that, and we believe that this is going in the right direction when it comes to eradicating differences. Freedom should be one of this government's major issues, which so often talks about private initiative and voluntary engagement. But when we look at what this government adds up to, for example. in relation to non-governmental organisations, in relation to the volunteer centres and FRISAM, this is quite deplorable. We know that there are 51 who this year have applied to set up volunteer centres. Only 12 of these have received their application and have been able to realize start-up. The reason is, a little vaguely suggested, that there were no correct applications and the correct concept. Then I think the Ministry of Social Affairs should enter into a dialogue with these applicants and say that fine, then we have to change the assumptions and get a system, so that these fires can start volunteer centres around. They are so important to care for those who want contact and help and support in their everyday lives. The concept of volunteering is very unique. There is cooperation between individuals and non-governmental organisations on the one hand and the public, both the municipality and the state, on the other. This is something I think we should stimulate rather than cause problems. Care pay has been a major issue for the Centre Party, and we want care pay for relatives to continue to be an important part of voluntary and personal assistance. That's why we're increasing in that area. We also increase the contribution to care services for recruitment of personnel in municipalities. We believe that the plan we are going to deal with over Christmas about the quality and content of care, means that we should put money on the table now, so that we have something to do. Finally, a section on the hospital sector. We are concerned about the health business economy, and we show that by adding more money to the operating plan now – NOK 1.1 billion. We also want to postpone the balance requirement towards health companies, and we want to erase some debt, a matter that we will come back to before Christmas peace sinks over this house. We believe that it is unacceptable that, for a tight economic environment, at the same time as a business-economy approach and a strong efficiency pressure, there should be a possible neglect and centralisation of food supply and emergency medical services, both in the case of emergency departments and in the case of ambulance services. It's unacceptable. I understand those who have gone to the torch this last half year to fight for this to be maintained. But then we have to put in the tools, so that this can be maintained. We are also concerned about the large investment costs that we have in our hospital sector, and believe that the Aarhus project, the University Hospital in Trondheim and also Follo Hospital now need to be clarified, and that an activity must be introduced by the state in order to establish them. Two years ago, there was a figure of about 50 billion dollars for the hospital in Norway to get new premises and rehabilitate its old premises that could still be used. $50 billion is probably too low today, but I think we should look at a funding and maybe a fund for development that allows us to take care of the facilities that we have. President, 10 minutes isn't much time. I want to say a little about rehabilitation and training at the end. We want health care to lead to rehabilitation, but we also need to organise it. Our training institutions are in economic difficulties. In that case, the State must ensure that these training institutions can continue to operate in rehabilitation. It takes up the central part of the center of the equation. We believe that funding is going to happen directly from RTV, and I'll come back to some of the moments later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e406	The left is, of course, behind the government's budget with the changes that follow from the budgetary agreement with the Labour Party, and the proposals that the Right and Christian People's Party are behind in this setting. Left looks at each individual human being as unique and different. We want a society of tolerance, justice and equivalency. The left believes that every single person – if given trust and responsibility – will create his own good life and will take responsibility for others. We mean that all human beings want to be something for others – will surface, not just benefit – if they get the opportunity to do so. Welfare must always be based on respect for the integrity of the individual and, to a far greater extent, on the individual’s wishes and needs. Public expenditure increases by DKK 14.7 billion during 2004, mainly due to increased payments for retirement, rehabilitation and disability pensions. Prognosis shows that there will be an increasing number of economically active people who will have to incur additional costs for more and more people who have social security benefits as their main source of income. Those of us who have jobs and good health should contribute more to freeing money to those who need it the most. As a result, the Government is increasing the health sector's characteristics. At the same time, the roof 2 will be well suited to screen the large consumers. In 1984, 140,000 people benefited from a partial health care facility, and in 2003 it was estimated to be 900,000. The government's proposal to increase the ownership stake by slightly more than the overall price increase from 1984 to 2004 was substantially reversed in the budget agreement with the Labour Party. Instead, 13 pst were added to the properties below the ceiling. This will not result in a significant reduction in the number of people who will be included in the overall welfare system. And there aren't 900,000 major healthcare users in Norway who have a bad economy. This shows that the system of five is too wide. Welfare schemes that are far too wide and that have increased expenditure growth year by year, allow us to have major problems finding space to give priority to those who really need public welfare and services. We cannot be so naive as to believe that lubricating well-being evenly beyond the Norwegian population is the solution to our poverty problems. The left is not naive, we know that a little bit of poverty in Norway, don't do it by raising the overall child's rights or reducing the ownership stake by a few hundred dots. The left has a lot more faith in the Government's line, where a set of targeted actions against those who need it the most. The 2004 draft budget proposes measures of nearly DKK 1 billion to prevent and reduce poverty. Improving the quality of life and the dignity of our drug addicts is a heart issue for the Left, for which we have been impressed in the draft budget by, among other things. increasing resources to help our drug users, and reorganising the auxiliaries to improve cooperation and clearer responsibilities. At the same time, when a drug addict gives patient rights and the right to an individual rehabilitation plan, quality of life and motivation for his own efforts will be significantly improved. Many drug addicts experience difficulties in overcoming and wanting to work. The Government's proposal to prioritize more housing and employment measures that can provide valuable work training is very positive. Many of our drug addicts have serious health problems, and many have difficulty visiting their own regularity. The strength of low-threshold health measures is therefore absolutely necessary to be able to provide many of the help they need. Too many people are also the first contact with the auxiliaries and an important contact to perhaps be motivated to seek further help. We have a lack of organizations and foundations that make an important and impressive effort in the field of care. The left is pleased that one in the budgetary agreement with the Labour Party is strengthening its efforts here. The government also proposes extra resources for medically assisted treatment. This allows more and more people to get this offer. But we have to keep saying that methadone, Subutex, or other drugs, is just part of the rehabilitation. To be closed in getting an almost 'normal' life, housing, work and social networks must also be provided, or, if one is willing, a holistic rehabilitation scheme, an individual plan. We are pleased that, in addition to increasing efforts to implement the psychiatry plan, one also extends the time period. It is necessary to discover the needs of the professionals in order to provide a really good supply for people with mental problems. The left wants more freedom for each individual, but it also means more responsibility. Left thinks helping those who have the least, for a better life, is more important than moving money between the great majority who already live in material wealth. There may be reason to remind all of us that we live in one of the richest countries in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e438	The budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the government parties has resulted in a significantly better health budget, and the work after the conciliation, as Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said, has been very good and very tidy. Much goes very well in the specialist health service. The queues have been significantly reduced and the waiting time has been substantially reduced. This is a health sign for our health care system. But the challenges are still many. As a result of the agreement, health businesses have increased their economy by 500 million. kr, and the balance-of-activity requirement has been offset by one year. Although there will still be a need for significant changes in our healthcare system, health businesses can now, as a result of a less laborious economy, make a professionally sound transition to their operations. I am therefore very pleased that the Labour Party has received an overall committee on a proposal asking the Government to thoroughly review the various professional assessments that are now available in relation to the changes in food supply and emergency preparedness planned. For me and for the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that long distances and long travel times must have consequences in relation to maintaining offers when this is professionally sound. The Workers' Party, in turn, promotes the proposal on regional Council bodies for regional health enterprises. Although the political governance of health enterprises is carried out through the powers of the Minister of Health, based on the decisions and framework of the Storting, the Labour Party believes that a regional advisory body would be an important advisory forum for regional health enterprises, especially in relation to the planning of the overall health supply in the region. I think it would have been good for the regional governments to have such a listening position with central regional politicians. I have noticed from time to time the unfortunate statements and reactions in the regional section, which could have been avoided with better regional contact. I am amazed that other parties do not support the initiative of the Labour Party. I am also glad that there is a broad majority who have supported our idea of getting more and better medical cooperation in the community health service. It is such that the vigilance of doctors in very many small and smaller municipalities can be very heavy and a direct threat to the recruitment of doctors. The experience of such organised vigilance cooperation is good. For example, there is an obstacle to: have been able to improve the distribution of costs between the public interest and the municipalities for such vigilance cooperation. Experiences from, among others: Nord-Trøndelag shows that society in total saves money, but for the municipalities, this scheme has provided some additional expenditure, while the population's wealth has saved more than that of the municipalities. This gives wrong signals about medical cooperation. The majority have asked the department to go into this, and I'm very happy about that. The size has decided that the financial responsibility for sick transport and travel expenses for health professionals should be transferred from the population and to municipalities and health businesses, respectively. A number of examples from many municipalities responsible for the ambulance and medical shower boat show that the new system can provide such municipalities with a significantly less reimbursement than the cost would be. The Committee takes this into account and expects the Ministry to capture this and ensure proper reimbursement of these municipalities. I don't like any of the things that I hear about psychiatry closures. The Health Minister has to look after the health companies, as I think he does and will do in the future. Although with this budget, we do not meet the original goal of escalation in psychiatry, 700 new, fresh millions to the psychiatry in 2004 are a large amount, which would mean significant escalation and not closure. Municipalities are definitely neither organisational nor professionally able to accept psychiatric patients who are now part of the specialist health service. I am basically very surprised by the representative Alvheim's claim here today that no more money is being put into the psychiatry. 700 million. kr is entered by the Government, and it supports the Workers' Party in the conciliation. 700 million. NOK is a lot of money. It is tempting to ask what the Progress Party proposed for the current year when the Progress Party made a settlement with the Government. A lot is happening in the health care system right now. Russ reforms will be implemented from the New Year, reforms aimed at ensuring an overall supply of drugs to drug users, ensuring these rights as patients and removing previous differences between state or county municipal patients and drug users in municipal institutions. The unacceptableness of previous schemes was that the economy of each municipality often determined the supply of drugs to the drug user. It shouldn't be like that. The Stortinget has recently decided. It is therefore with the greatest wonder that I hear rumors that the MARIO Centre, our national competence centre and regional centre for many counties, is about to be split up between the Municipality of Oslo and the healthcare company. It will lead too far to go into this now, but the point is that one does not build up what one needs to build up. The medical policy is demanding because patients must be guaranteed access to the best and most effective medicines, while at the same time seeking to reduce the large expenditure growth in the pharmaceutical field. This growth actually varies between 10 pst. and 15 pst. annual. The blue prescription system is a central element in the prescription and use of medicinal products, and it is very positive that an overall committee now requests a comprehensive and broad review of the blue prescription system. Apart from the obvious need to ensure cost control, our current system is weak. In many cases, it takes too long to get good and cost-effective medicine into the bladder prescription system. Today's procedures too much invite the Storting to become a kind of case handler on professional medical questions about whether or not medicines should be included in the prescription scheme. Odelstingen is currently dealing with another case, where the majority subscribes to the price index for reimbursement contracts between the State and pharmaceutical companies. There we also ask that the Ministry assess an alternative with the temporary authorisation of medicines on a blue prescription, and evaluate forms of estimates that still need to ensure cost control. The majority in the United Kingdom point to the importance of reimbursement schemes to ensure Norwegian patients an offer, as we see it in other countries, especially in the case of recommended medicinal products for the treatment of COPD, heart disease and stroke, benign prostate enlargement and type II diabetes. Here lies the challenge of the Minister of Health. As I mentioned earlier, it would be unfortunate if the Storting had to go into these matters in detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e470	The design of the future hospital service offer has led to a high level of public engagement. That's great. It shows that health regions take seriously Storting's demands for transparency in the processes taking place in health regions. Health reform has led to and will lead to structural changes and transformations. Better implementation of changes and transitions was also one of the aims of the health reform, a reform that has given more treated patients and shorter waiting times. Medical developments are constantly evolving. This means that we need to ensure that the health care system behaves in a professional manner. In the debate, the need for structural changes has been mainly linked to the economy. But structural changes are not necessarily just to get more health out of each krona, although it is important enough, but also to ensure a good quality of the services provided. Therefore, the impression that some people are trying to create is that hospitals for central politicians are only about closures and savings, wrong. In reality, shifts and structural changes are both a means of getting more health out of each krona and improving the quality of treatment. It should be in everyone's interest, regardless of how much resources we spend in hospitals, that we get as many treated patients as possible within the framework available. Similarly, it should be in everyone's interest that we operate our healthcare system in such a way that we are able to involve ourselves in continuous medical development, so that we can provide high-quality services. What was professionally sound yesterday is not necessarily professionally sound today. In the economic situation of hospitals, the current government is not going to starve the hospitals. In proposals for government budgets, the government has proposed DKK 1.2 billion in increased hospital appropriations. In addition, the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party has resulted in an additional DKK 1⁄2 billion to the hospitals and the suspension of the balance sheet requirement by one year. Although hospitals face tough challenges, they have all had the opportunity to continue the record high number of treated patients within a financially sound framework. In the draft budget, the government follows up the fight against poverty by granting 948 million. kr for poverty reduction, an increase of 239 million. kr from last year. Poverty measures are targeting those who need it the most. This is a continuation of the Government's change of course in social policy, taking into account the consequences of the unilateral emphasis on broad welfare schemes not being able to prevent new poverty. In the next year's budget, labour market measures for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance are strengthened, single-parents receive a better transitional benefit, the homeless receive better help to provide housing, and more will receive grants for the purchase of own-dwelling. The most important way to get out of poverty will continue to be through work. That's why it's good that the government is betting on getting people out to work. This is done, inter alia, by: building up the barriers that disabled people experience in society. A number of measures have been proposed in the budget, including: enterprises are no longer required to pay an excess in order to facilitate employment for disabled persons. The State shall henceforth pay all the costs. This will make it easier to hire disabled workers. It is also worrying that some 400,000 people, i.e. every five Nordics of working age have social security as their main source of income. There are more disadvantaged people than industrial workers in Norway. Therefore, it is good that we get a temporary unemployment benefit scheme, a scheme that will give more opportunities to be connected to the labour market. Equally worrying is the high level of sick leave. It is disappointing that the intention agreement for an inclusive working life has, for the time being, not led to a reduction in sick leave, to a rise in the number of disabled persons into the working life or to a rise in the real retirement age. Nevertheless, a unanimous committee supports the Government's view on the continuation of the agreement, because we believe it will produce positive results in the longer term. The Government has proposed a stronger link with the labour market in order to benefit from the sickness benefit scheme. The requirement for a person to have been in work for a period of two to four weeks before being entitled to sickness benefits is extended. And the period of entitlement to sick pay in inactive periods is reduced from three to one month. These are small and reasonable changes. What's unreasonable is that after two weeks of working life you have full entitlement to sickness benefits, as it is today. These small adjustments contribute to the maintenance of the world's best health pay scheme with full pay from the first day. In order to preserve and develop the welfare community, we need more people at work. Then the sick leave has to go down. Those who are currently out of work but who have the opportunity to enter the labour market must enter the labour market. That's also how we can get funds for other problems out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e493	This year's budget will be given a majority with the support of the Workers' Party. Then there would be reason to believe that the Labour Party would just negotiate to a budget which at least nullified the change made in the current year's budget and which was so stressed in the last year's debate: ‘Unaccompanied dependants receive a reduced contribution to childcare. Only the minimum pensioners will now be exempted from the abstinence of the blue prescription. The excavation aid shall be terminated. Important schemes for the grant of disabled persons are cut.» These are not my own words, but a direct quote from Bjarne Håkon Hanssen's speech during the last year's debate on the health and social budget. After the force-salve directed at the Progress Party in that debate, one would at least be quite sure that there would not be a reduction in the benefit of childcare. There should be no restriction on the disabled. In any case, it would have to be expected that the grave peace aid would be reduced, as the Progress Party had proposed in its alternative to the State budget. It is clear that the Workers' Party is no longer paying so much attention to what they themselves said just one year ago. There is reason to recall that this budget on which the Workers' Party is now involved is a budget in which they will have to bear the entire content. It is worth remembering the words of the representative of Hill-Marta Solberg from last year’s financial debate: ‘There is no subsidiary reality’. That is why there is reason to dwell on some of the cuts and changes that the Workers’ Party must now clearly feel reasonable when it comes to the agreement that has been concluded. In connection with the election campaign before the last election, the Labour Party made a very big point out of the importance that there was no need to weaken the professional rights associated with the sickness pay scheme. The agreement that the Workers' Party has now concluded with the government parties shows that there is a long way between what is promised in an election campaign and what is done in practical policy. The compromise reached results in a weakening of the sick pay system, which now requires a stronger link with the working life in order to obtain the right to receive sick pay. The future guarantees of the Workers' Party regarding the protection of the sick pay scheme will no longer be a believer. I am not surprised that the Government in its time presented a proposal for a budget marked by a significant increase in propensity, restraints in schemes for sick and disabled people and a lack of willingness to give priority to the most effective and recommended medicinal products in some areas, despite the fact that the Government's own professional body had recommended it. This is actually just a continuation of the current government policy, especially as we know that policy from previous years. In the budget debate last year, representatives from the Workers' Party spent a lot of time talking about the fact that the Progress Party did not have the power to gain respect for the government parties in order to maintain the overall gravitational support, as the Progress Party wanted and proposed in its alternative budget. The Progress Party therefore proposes, in its proposal for a social budget, that the general burial aid should be reinstated, with DKK 4000 in addition to a need-tested part of NOK 8500. It is amazing that this proposal only receives the votes of the Progress Party, especially when you look back at the last year's budget debate in this Chamber. In this context, it is only to note that the Workers' Party does not consider it important to give priority to the setting up of the burial aid. The constant attempts to increase the percentages of health care, especially self-interest, are of great concern to sick people, and not least to chroniclers, who would initially have more than enough problems dealing with their own illness, if they were not to have to worry about the fact that the economy is not going to go to, and in some cases have to choose between food and medicine. The government parties and the Workers' Party ensure that the ownership stake increases from NOK 1 350 to NOK 1550. The percentages of people attending doctors, psychologists and other health professionals are increasing by approx. 13 pst., and the self-payment – that is, the sum to pick up the single prescription – is increasing from 400 to 450 kroner. This is punishing sick people, many of whom are already struggling with a bad economy. The Progress Party has found cover in its alternative budget in order not to increase its balances. The situation in the care of the elderly is still too poor. We have all been reminded that more carers and carers in the care of the elderly are required. It's important, as the Progress Party sees it, that we are now adding some earmarked funds to increase the number of caregivers in this care. The Progress Party proposes the creation of 1 000 new posts in this sector next year, but there is no room for majority voting in this Chamber. It does not seem that you are sufficiently concerned about this area anymore, now that the election campaign is over. The Government Parties and the Workers' Party also provide a majority in order to tighten the exemption provisions for those who are to receive the rehabilitation allowance by adopting a time limit for the duration of receipt of this benefit. The Progress Party must only note that the Government will also have a majority with the Labour Party in this area. It will be interesting to hear why the Workers' Party has also given priority to reducing the rates of support for child care in this budget in the case of lone dependants, as these fall from 66 to 64 pst. of documented expenditure, all the time when the working party in last year's budget made a point of how important it was not to reduce this aid. I want to challenge the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, to explain what has changed in the last year, from last year to this year, about this issue of child care. The Progress Party has called for a comprehensive review of the Norwegian pharmaceutical policy on several occasions, where a number of more or less drastic changes have been made in recent years without having been given the opportunity to see the whole area in a wider context. In this context, reference can be made to the generic exchange and index price system and the use of reimbursement contracts, which will be debated at Odelstinget later today. On this issue, we are once again promoting proposals for a comprehensive and comprehensive review of the area of medicinal products. But what is likely to be a majority is a more limited review. In its comments, the Party stresses the importance of including some medicinal products as soon as possible in Section 9 of the Blue Recipe Regulation. This applies, inter alia, to: Actos and Avandia anti-diabetic medicinal products. It will have no budgetary implications if they are prescribed according to the recommendations of the State Medicines Agency, as this could lead to a reduction in insulin use. Furthermore, we also want reimbursement for the heart medicine Plavix and the medicine Spiriva versus COPD. I fully understand part of the criticism of the fact that individual medicinal products are being discussed in Stortinget. But it is unfortunately a fact that on several occasions this turns out to be the last opportunity to help a number of patients to benefit from the best medicines for their disease. It is paradoxical that the reason why there is no reimbursement is that there is no budgetary coverage to do so. The Progress Party considers this to be completely pointless and wants to give the Government the tools to be used in this area, namely to turn the pharmaceutical chapter into an estimate allocation, in line with, for example, the following: sickness fund. No one would dream of refusing any sick money because the budget was empty. There have also been some comments, including: from the representative of Glow Violence to resource-intensive users. I would like to remind you that we have made a primary proposal in this matter, but we will subsidly support the proposal that, among other things. The representative, "Gløtvold," was here. We also did so in the context of the Community economicproposition, but then with another proposal that could have a majority. The Labour Party would not be involved in the proposal to which it was referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e535	Yesterday, Tuesday 9 December, the newspaper had a notice saying: ‘Cecilia despairs of psychiatric depression: ‘Where am I going to take care of myself?’» [[35]] The article states that 20 places for serious mental illness in Dikemark, Asker, are to be laid down and Cecilie does not know where to move. She says, "I just want to die. The uncertainty is not to endure.’ She was told two weeks earlier by the Dikemark superior that the department she was in was to be moved to Ullevål, that a change of structure was to be made, but that the patients were not to move. This is one of several examples that have emerged in the last year, not that psychiatry is strengthened as foreseen within the escalation plan, but that offers are dropped without replacing them with other offers. I was in Gran earlier this year in Hadeland, where I met several residents at a psychiatric hospital. They described their despair that their offer would disappear. The only thing to replace was psychiatric wards, where it was a little bit topical that the same patients would be admitted. It is clearer and clearer that the difference between that which has been the intention of the Storting and that which is taking place under the control of the various health companies and with the individual patients is great. There's a big discord here. And that's a difference that we can't live with. You could say that the Storting by now strengthening the budget by 700 million. kr, still doing something in relation to the psychiatry, but it should also be missing. We have received reports year after year. By reading the 1980s report of the Wage Committee I and the reports to various priority committees, we can see that psychiatry has been harmful. We have to acknowledge through a Samdata report that, despite the fact that we are now implementing an escalation plan, it is not the psychiatry, but the somaticness that is being strengthened the most. I think that is also reflected in the debate we have here today. It's not the psychiatry that gets the main attention. It's the other part of the health care system that gets. I registered that the evening post Last night had a description of foreign tourists visiting Oslo. They were apprehensive about what they saw on Plata and the area around, with needles and with drug addicts who apparently had no offer, where the use of drugs was quite obvious. It's another side of the same case. We know that very many people who are struggling with a drug problem, as a consequence of it – or perhaps as a start-up to it – have mental problems. What we see is that we haven't managed to create a society that cares for the weakest. The level of noise we have seen over the last few months in terms of health businesses and somatics is totally overshadowing the fact that we are failing the weakest. I should have wanted a big deal that had managed to meet some of the demands that come from the departments that are now the strongest, just to be able to take care of those who are the weakest, those who have no voice to say about the betrayal that has been in relation to them – because in many ways this is a betrayal. It is a betrayal of the strength to come but not to come. And it's a betrayal of patients who feel insecure and insecure, and who feel that they're not being helped. A father wrote me a longer letter about his situation and the experiences he had had. He had a daughter who died because of eating refusal. He described how the plans that were put in place were not followed up, and he lamented that this year the social committee had not specifically mentioned the group that has eating refusal. I've been thinking about it a little bit, because I have a daughter who's been struggling with such problems, but you have to be careful to deal with the budget in order to take care of her own. I was surprised when I read the book to Arne Olav Brundtland in my time. He described Gro Harlem Brundtland's reflections around psychiatry after she herself had a sick son, namely the fear of entering those areas of fear that one could be suspected of helping one's own. It is still felt that someone in the family or someone else is hospitalized, but some of the things that have really surprised me in a closer contact with the psychiatry are how big the deficiencies are. The deficiencies are not necessarily greatest in the area I mentioned now, eating refusal, but in a number of other areas. Relatives feel that they have failed. They feel that they are left alone, that they have no one to help themselves to get the sick into a treatment offer, and that they quickly become alone to take care when they come back. It's a responsibility that Stortinget has to take to a greater extent than it has now. It is surprising and disappointing that the Workers' Party in its agreement with the Government has not been more concerned with that area. I should have used my whole article to talk about it, because this is angering me, but I'm going to get into a lot of other areas as well. On 14 November, the National Audit Office presented an examination of the effectiveness of hospitals, based on a comparison of the organisation of hip operations. The report says: ‘The National Audit Office’s study shows that input-driven funding may in practice have an impact on hospital priorities.’ That is absolutely in agreement with the SV. Since the introduction of input-based funding, we have warned against making the input-based share too high, because it may have unfortunate distortive effects. For hip surgery, priority may be given to patients who are first operating, while patients who experience failure are not given priority because the hospital performance is reduced in the second time surgery of the same patient than by the first time surgery of another patient. This, of course, is unethical. The priority shall, in the SV's view, be according to the patient's condition and the severity of the condition present, not according to the type of performance that individual treatment can provide to the hospital. SV is therefore pleased that we are now doing what we have proposed for several years, namely reducing input-based funding and increasing the framework share of hospitals. We are also pleased that health care businesses will have to dispose of the funds to cover travel expenses from 1 January 2004. SV has proposed it for many years, and has finally gained an impact on it together with the Government in the examination of the current year’s budget. I am also pleased that the Progress Party and the Right have taken the time to study SV's alternative budget proposals in framework area 16. In addition to the draft budget which came about after the agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party, SV is the only party promoting an alternative draft budget within the framework. It's understandable that other parties give themselves time to study it. Several of the things we have proposed in the past have been implemented later. I record that the committee's head claims that SV, with its proposal, commits to raging the private specialist health service. I can assure you that is not the case. However, the fact that the reimbursement as private specialists, psychologists, laboratories and the X-ray institute has been received from the Rikstrygdeverket, instead of being made available by healthcare companies, is all reason to believe that coordination will improve, that the overall health care provision of patients will improve, that the queues will be more easily decommissioned, and that the task of dealing with the sick first can be divided into several hands. It is obvious that the reimbursements currently paid to private practitioners are being too poorly managed under the direction of the Swedish National Works Agency because it is not possible to give guidance on the type of patient group to be prioritised. And that's what SV wants. We don't want to deprive private specialists of their livelihood, but we want the patients they're dealing with for public reimbursements to be patients with first priority. That should be quite natural. The majority should argue the same way. So Bent Höie says that SV's budget proposal amounts to NOK 1.2 billion less for healthcare companies. It's not like that. It means NOK 1.2 billion more to health businesses. This means strengthening the economy of health businesses, but it also means getting new tasks at the same time. This means being responsible for the reimbursement of private specialists, laboratories, X-ray institutes and psychologists. And that means, of course, that SV expects an efficiency improvement as a consequence of it. We see today that individual doctors at the hospitals are up to an annual income of 2.4 million. kr. You can't be right that you have doctors who earn three times as much as the prime minister. Of course, instead of doing so, we need coordination of common resource use, so that overtime temporary use or extra costs for health businesses are completely unnecessary. Instead, private specialists, coordinated with hospitals, should be used to achieve more efficient resource use. SV is concerned that much of the resource use that will take place in the health sector in the future is to take place where people live, in municipalities and under the direction of primary health services. We need to do much more to ensure that specialist health services can reach the population. We are pleased that the Government is now also facilitating measures such as cell toxicity treatment and dialysis treatment, for which SV has spoken for many years. But we want to move on that way, by making the specialist health service more accessible where people live, so that fewer people have to go far to get treatment. Thank you for your attention, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e589	The government’s health policy is based on respect for human life and dignity, care for the weakest, commitment to prevention and personal responsibility for your own health. The draft budget is aimed in particular at: follow-up to public health communication through a public health package increased efforts for mental health efforts to alleviate treatment and care at the end of life continuation of the level of activity in hospitals There is a great need to strengthen public health work. The state of health and the main health challenges in our part of the world are closely related to living habits. In Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 16 for 2002-2003, The prescription for a healthier Norway also expressed broad agreement on the need to focus public intervention more on prevention. This has now been followed up by the Government in the 2004 draft budget and further reinforced by the consideration of the Social Committee. An important challenge in the future will be to facilitate increased physical activity in the least active groups, to increase daily activity in general, and not least to promote physical activity among children and young people. Perhaps the main perspective of government policy will be to create a good framework for local public health work and to ensure that health considerations are more closely involved in community planning. In order to contribute to this, a partnership for public health between State, county, municipalities and non-governmental organisations is established to ensure a stronger infrastructure and a local anchoring of public health work. As a follow-up to the Women’s Health Strategy in the Public Health Communication, research into the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis and research into women’s mental health is strengthened. We've had a strong growth in the activity in hospitals in recent years, not least this current year, when the activity growth has been on the other side of 5 pst. It has been considered that this historically high level of activity should be maintained at approximately the same level next year. Substantial resources have been allocated to the specialist health service over several years. In order to ensure that, in such a situation, we have good use of resources, it is important that migration and efficiency are required. An important objective of the hospital reform has been to improve health for each krona. It is gratifying to note that the reform is already beginning to produce results. There has been a necessary cleaning-up in waiting lists, and waiting times have also actually decreased. Regional health enterprises have addressed the problem of overcoating and corridor Asians and have delivered positive results. Governments and management of regional health enterprises are given responsibility for managing large social values, and for the first time we have now received a comprehensive overview of the buildings and equipment put at our disposal. However, migration and efficiency requirements should not be at the expense of the necessary public safety when health care needs arise. It is important that the increased appropriations now provided for by the budgetary agreement are used to reduce the deficit in 2004 and not to increase the activity beyond what is provided for in the draft budget. I will make demands for migration in each regional health enterprise, so that the objective of balance can be achieved in 2005. It is and shall be a significant exposure to specialist health care and health care establishments. I feel that the commitment at its core is often about security, which we politicians have to take seriously. I would like to highlight three issues that appear to be important when this situation is to be met. Firstly, we must avoid contributing to the perception that maintaining the status quo is a good strategy to ensure the security of the population in terms of the necessary healthcare. Maintaining established patterns in some cases will mean poor use of available professional resources. However, changes must be anchored in good professional analysis of how the service can meet the needs of the population in a good way. Furthermore, it is important that the service be able to enter into good dialogue with the population as it should serve. Secondly, I feel that many people believe that development means centralisation. It is not at all such that the driving forces for development are one-sided in this direction. There is a significant development of information technology. It provides new opportunities for interaction between key expert environments and local and regional hospital settings. The fact that companies are now taking responsibility for sick transport and that the ISF scheme is extended to include dialysis and cell toxicity treatment provided outside hospitals also offers new opportunities to implement decentralised solutions. Thirdly, it must be stressed that the development of healthcare should not be regarded as purely professional. The development of the service shall also be subject to national political governance. It is an important condition for the population to experience safety in relation to change. The division of labour should be such that policy bodies draw up broad guidelines and health businesses and professional environments find concrete solutions within these framework conditions. We have now started to develop a planning and reporting system that just intends to facilitate a more overall and comprehensive governance role for the Stortinget. In this respect, I am pleased that the Committee is asking for work to be done on the role to be played by local hospitals in the future. Work must be done in close cooperation with enterprises, in dialogue with user groups, the professional organisations and the local people. Regional health establishments shall organise their activities in such a way as to ensure that patients covered by the Patient Rights Act and the prioritisation Regulation are treated within individual treatment periods. There is still a clear need to prioritise the treatment of cancer, relieving treatment, drug-related treatment, mental health and rehabilitation services. Patients shall not be given priority after the payment offered through the ISF system, as some examples have unfortunately been seen. The Government’s proposal to increase the basic allocation and reduce the ISF and outpatient rates accordingly will reduce the risk of undesirable distortions in patient provision. Health authorities and health businesses are facing increasing pressures from organisations, businesses and professionals on new treatments and health measures, which often involve large investments and increased operating costs. A systematic professional evaluation of methods and measures used and introduced into Norwegian healthcare is becoming increasingly important. I am therefore pleased that the Social Committee supports the proposal to set up a national health care knowledge centre. The overall objectives and instruments of the mental health escalation plan are set out. The escalation next year at 700 million. kr is the largest increase in one year since the adoption of the plan. The review of the status and feedback shows a number of good results of the escalation plan, but they are unfortunately covered in the public debate and often also in debates here in this Chamber. However, user organisations and professional communities have indicated that the planning period should be extended. At the same time, Stortinget has asked the Government to consider such an extension. The Government has come to the conclusion that an extension of the planning period is necessary to ensure that the envisaged targets for the phasing-in plan are met. In order to succeed in creating a good and customised supply in the community of users, it is very important that the user perspective is strengthened. This applies both to the planning and development of services and to the individual user-treater meeting. The switchover of the service apparatus includes both a change of attitude and a physical restructuring of the offer. Among other things, it is provided that the psychiatric hospitals should be partially converted into district psychiatric centres responsible for active treatment and, on the one hand, replaced by housing measures in the municipalities. The draft budget includes commitments for a further 900 dwellings organised for the mentally ill in 2004. At the same time, I would like to stress that no offer should be made until new and better measures are established for those who currently live in hospitals. The mental health of children and young people is a particular priority for the Government. In this respect, I would like to point out that the Government has presented its own strategy plan in this area, which involves hundreds of concrete actions on the responsibilities of seven departments. Training institutions represent an important offer for many people. For the treatment of St.prp. No 1 for 2002-2003 the Stortinget decided that regional health enterprises should assume responsibility for financing and ordering services from the training institutions. The objective is to link training institutions closer to the other specialist health services. A four-year transitional period was adopted. The 2004 draft budget follows up on this. The conversion is important in order to ensure a qualitatively sound offer. I have noted the recommendation of the majority of the Committee to give priority to the development of a code and classification system for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. I have also noticed that the Committee asks for feedback on the offer to chroniclers who need this type of service. The availability of dental practitioners to the public dentistry is not good enough. Therefore, in the 2004 draft budget, the Government has proposed increased grants for the recruitment of dental practitioners. A working group has developed a number of measures in a report which has been widely consulted and which will serve as the basis for my follow-up to the Committee's wish for an overall plan of action for the recruitment of public dental practitioners. The government has also announced in the 2004 State budget that it will set up its own investigation committee for a broad review of the dental field. The selection work will be followed up with the Stortinget following the availability of the sample report and the consultation opinions. I would also like to show that the Patient Damage Act came into force for public health on 1 January of this year. The law did not enter into force for private health activities. The law was amended this year to facilitate insurance companies to offer insurance in accordance with the Patient Damage Act to health professionals in private activities. The provision of insurance in this market is a prerequisite for the entry into force of the Act on private health. The Ministry of Health has been in dialogue with the insurance industry to ensure this, but insurance companies still do not want to offer insurance under the terms of the Patient Damage Act. I have to inform you that the Patient Damage Act will therefore not be fully implemented from 1 January 2004, as I have previously intended. Therefore, the basis for the obligation of insurance outside the public health system will continue to be the rules of the Health Care Act on this matter, rather than the Patient Injury Act. The Ministry of Health will take the initiative in examining the questions relating to the private health insurance scheme so that the law can enter into force in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e665	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e668	I was in my main post dealing with questions related to the conversion of emergency and food services that were in progress, i.e. decisions that were taken, and I was thinking in particular of the decisions taken in the Health North and Health West. As I also said in my main post, these matters have been dealt with in the business meetings of the respective regional health companies, and the health minister has set out clear criteria in the business meetings to be fulfilled before the decisions are implemented. As far as I remember, the Minister for Health set a deadline, 1 November this year, for feedback on where we had now arrived. And my question to the Minister of Health is, where in the process are you now, and where is the road going?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e675	It is true that the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen points out that the business meetings in Health Nord and Health Vest dealt with the issue of restructuring food and emergency services in the two health regions related to specific hospitals there. In the course of the process, in which the business meeting endorsed the main proposals promoted by regional health firms, a number of concrete assumptions were made that would be in place before they could be implemented, and undertakings were asked to report on their implementation by 1 November. I've got those reports. They are under work and for treatment in the department. It turns out that the assumptions on some points so far are not met. I am therefore working in dialogue with the two regional health businesses with a plan to ensure that those conditions are met before implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e684	In an entry at the Dagsrevyen 19 November this year, the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen stated that it is important to state in principle in the Stortinget that the local hospitals should remain, that they should have a central place in the Norwegian health care system, and that it must be included in the local hospitals for emergency care and maternity services. Many – including some enterprises – have perceived this as 500 million. kr entered in the budget agreement shall be used to protect local hospitals. In this way, there is no longer any structural change in local hospitals that is solely justified in economic terms. Is the Minister of Health also interpreting the fact that local hospitals are now to be protected from the unfortunate situations that have arisen so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e692	I experience both the position of the majority and the debate so far here today that there is a broad consensus in Stortinget that local hospitals have an important function in the Norwegian healthcare system, that having decentralised food and emergency services is important. I do not believe that the majority has issued any protection orders about the service provision in these areas – that is, as it is today everywhere. There is a need for conversion, and it must be implemented. I refer here to what the majority say in the vote, which I fully agree with. As regards the issue of the disposal of increased resources, the majority have chosen to contribute to the basic allocation of health enterprises. It allows healthcare companies to have more time and to make the transitions more cautious than they would otherwise have done, and – as the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen had in mind – to perhaps not be able to implement some purely economically justified conversion measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e701	In my main post, I referred to a headline in yesterday's Daily, where a psychologist at Dikemark, Erik Røise, describes the situation in psychiatry as follows: ‘There is a tendency to bet on those groups that are the easiest to deal with in psychiatry.’ This is about a shift in funding within psychiatry, so that there will also be incentives-based funding. Does the Minister for Health, taking into account the current and future nature of the escalation plan, consider the risk of priority being given to patients who are spending little on health businesses or treatment units, so that they are the weakest, those most in need of treatment, affected, both through the funding mechanism today and through future financial instruments? Does he see that there is a particular responsibility here to ensure that those with the greatest needs are the ones that are also given the highest priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e711	Yes, there is a special responsibility to ensure the weakest and most vulnerable an offer. Use of terms such as ‘svik’, which the representative Ballo used in his main post, I find quite offensive in this way in relation to the commitment that has been delegated both by the Government and by the majority of the population to ensure that it is. And then we see some kind of sample of processes out in the companies that none of us like. I have found it necessary, based on some of the media releases that have been in recent years, to send a warning to all regional health companies about what governance signals I am going to follow in 2004. The letter, which went out yesterday, makes it clear that the resources that come from the escalation plan should be added to the amount of effort that is already there – there is no opportunity to cut the bottom. And to the extent that it is more efficient, the efficiency gain should benefit the psychiatry. We will use the guidance documents to clarify the need to have the proper care of each patient. We want to make it clear that to the extent that you have to lay down a nursing home, which the Storting has provided, you should not do so until you have built up an equivalent alternative offer. We also want to go to the weakest patients, before it's built up an alternative offer. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e720	It was basically a long post, but the president found the clarification necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e723	I'm sorry, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e728	There could be a lot of questions you could ask -- at least I'll take a couple. The Health Minister says that there is a need for conversion. I agree that there is a need for development and change in a positive and professional context. However, I believe that the migration needs to be addressed by the Minister of Health are more financially justified – in relation to centralisation, closure and closure of decentralised services today. That is why I would like to ask you: is it not that if you want to use resources, you can get a professionally sound offer even in a decentralised structure? The same applies to emergency and ambulance services. It's a question of whether you want to use resources, and then it's a cost-benefit question. A small issue in the fight against cancer, which the Minister of Health has given priority to. [[President clubs]] The radon bet for 2004 is requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e739	Radon action has been part of the national cancer plan, which is within its last year. That is why it has not been continued in 2004. When it comes to migration in food departments in Norway, I have to say that I have noticed that the centre party has prioritised this budgetary procedure, is the transition in the food department at Aker in Oslo. That conversion wants the Center Party to stop. It is a conversion that means that some women living in Groruddalen, Oslo, must be born in Lørenskog – approx. 10 minutes’ drive from Groruddalen – and that some women at Ullern have to give birth at Bærum hospital, which is actually closer than Aker. That, I think, is a rather remarkable finding of the Central Party's resistance to changes in the hospital sector. It is true that it is possible to deploy an unlimited amount of resources, provided that you get recruited professionals. You can have a specialist offer anywhere in the country, if you get professionals to apply for it. But the question is whether there is actually a rational exploitation of society's resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e750	It's now 12:15, but the president's planning to finish the line change before the break.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e753	Since we are discussing psychiatry, I would like to stress that I believe that health businesses perceive the Minister of Health as very clear in the view of the escalation plan and the impact it should have on health businesses. We have recently adopted a drug reform that gives the Minister of Health an increased responsibility, as we have been granted patient rights to drug users. The decision on this was made in the autumn, which means that health care businesses have a short time to organise and finance the offer. Then my question is: how will the Minister of Health ensure that healthcare companies are now organising and financing comprehensive drug treatment, in line with both the Patient Rights Act and the Rusreforms I and II?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e762	As I said in the debate on Rusreform II, it is very demanding and time-critical to implement the reform from 1 January, as the Storting suspended the treatment of the proposition. But we've been working parallel, assuming the Biggest conclusions. I can therefore inform Stortinget that, in relation to the practical processes of transferring personnel and buildings and services to be carried out by 1 January, we are on track, and we follow it carefully through the project organisation from day to day. In terms of ensuring the provision of services into the new context, we will take into account the leadership of the Stortinget in the treatment of the law, in the 2004 Health Business Guide.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e769	The cord shift is over. The majority is now taking a break in its negotiations. The meeting will be set at 5 p.m. 3:30.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e788	The decision continues to deal with case No. 1 on agenda No 31.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e791	We have recently faced not only increasing unemployment but also ongoing attacks on fundamental labour rights. It is with disbelief that one heard a Norwegian State Council highlight and argue for disadvantaged workers’ rights, on the basis of a reasoning that good working and pay conditions are an obstacle to an inclusive working life. Employment protection, sick pay scheme, unemployment benefit and accrued pension entitlements have all been part of the welfare state and Velferds-Norway. These are the rights that modern Velferds-Norway has taken for granted, and many have taken it as a matter of course that it will remain so. It is therefore with disbelief that the right to work is no longer a matter of course, that unemployment benefits are weakened, that the sickness pay scheme is being attacked, and that the possibilities of future pensions are being called into question. The hearing disorder we've witnessed in Norwegian politics in recent years has just come to terms with such attacks and has resulted in more and more workers being marginalised and pushed out of the labour market. For the Workers' Party, it is a main task to reverse this development. We have not been able to reverse development through the budgetary agreement we have concluded, but we have managed to stop some of the worst results. For us, it was a prerequisite that the Government drew up its proposal for temporary employment. It was important to get more people working and to ensure this through a comprehensive business package and significantly more labour market measures. It was a prerequisite that one was given a boost to the economy of the hospitals. In fact, it was not NOK 1 billion, as we wanted, but with DKK 1⁄2 billion and postponement of the balance sheet requirement, the hospitals are at least better off than what was the starting point. We believe that hospital funding, with an increase in basic funding at the expense of unit-price financing, will help the healthcare system to deal better with chroniclers, the elderly and the psychiatric patients. We were unable to freeze the self-interest, as we added into our own budget, but we managed to help halve the increase in relation to what the government originally provided. In some areas, we have not had an impact on our priorities. It's about strengthening the situation of the disabled, and it's about support for the lonely dependants, as we had in our budget, and we're sorry that the government parties wouldn't follow us in this. However, we are pleased that the Government confirms that it will follow up the commitment agreement and promises that the state will also financially implement its part in the follow-up and organisation of the workplace, so that the situation we were in this summer, as the IA work almost stopped due to lack of funding, will not repeat itself. It is obvious that health care businesses have not only had a strenuous economy but that they have had an economic situation that has been perceived as unsustainable by too many. They should have been added NOK 1 billion, as the Workers' Party proposed. But we've managed to strengthen the budget by 500 million. kr, and this – combined with a postponement of the balance requirement – would enable further sound operation to be ensured. This strengthening should be used by undertakings to review their proposals and decisions on their arrangements. We have received from many parts of the country concerns about structural changes that are more dictated by economic considerations than by professional assessments. This is especially the food supply, the emergency medical services and the psychiatry for which you have concerns. Against this background, a unanimous committee has asked the Government to review the technical assessments of the changes currently proposed or adopted and to ensure that the changes that are not professionally advisable are stopped. We have recorded that the Minister of Health just intervened on the basis of such criteria when it came to the Gjøvik maternity ward. I would like to point out that such reports of concern are not only a district phenomenon, but also that planned changes to the hospital offer in the Oslo area will provide an offer that cannot be easily defended. The planned closure of the maternity ward at Aker Hospital is difficult to understand purely professionally. One of the food departments that may have the best reputation in the whole country, among others. due to testing and development of maternity care, death is now threatened. It is planned that part of the birthers will be transferred to Ullevål Hospital, a department that has already blasted its capacity frames and will have to send birthing around the entire eastern region. Not only too small a food department but also too large a food department may exceed reasonable quality requirements, and this has to be considered in the case of the birthers in Oslo and any extension of Ullevål’s capacity at the expense of Aker. Conversion of the Aker intake range will also have major consequences for the entire population of the Groruddalen, and it is worrying, especially because it is an ageing population that will now lose its geriatric supply. How crazy these arrangements may be is the fact that the last few days' planned cut in the psychiatry offer at Aker Hospital and the corresponding cut at Ullevål Hospital. This cannot be in line with the intentions of the escalation plan, and from what the health minister here has said today, even in line with his intentions. Nor can it be professionally sound to lay down psychiatric hospitals or lay down beds until an adequate offer is made. The way psychiatry works now, with explicit efficiency requirements, it seems that it is the easiest patients to prioritise. In this way, it seems easier to get productivity growth, but it leads to the heaviest and most needy patients who don't get the offers they need. As the situation now is, it is necessary to take seriously the requirements of relatives' organisations and of professional teams to freeze the number of bed places until there is a sufficient alternative treatment capacity. In particular, I would ask the Minister of Health to look at the food supply and the offers given to elderly and psychiatric patients in the Oslo area when he receives feedback from Health East on how to ensure the professional criteria in these vital health areas. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the committee saw itself able to strengthen the Sign Language Centre Conrad Svendsen's Foundation, which is a housing and rehabilitation centre, with 1 million. kr. It is not a large amount, but it is of great importance to those concerned by this offer. I would like to stress that it is important that this strengthening benefits the institution's overall business, so that there are patients and residents who will benefit from this increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e829	The objective of success is whether it creates adequate security, whether it creates new opportunities for those who fall outside, and whether it facilitates activity and participation. Those who need it will have a new chance, and measures and services will need to be shaped on the basis of the individual's situation and needs. I am pleased that there is broad support for the measures proposed by the Government in the budget for next year. The State budget has a good social profile, focusing on the most disadvantaged and focusing on self-help interventions. Politics is about prioritizing. This also applies in social policy. The question is, when does the community have to extend a helping hand, to whom should the hand be extended? The majority of us are doing well. Most take part in general welfare developments, but some do not. However, a sustainable welfare society requires all those who are able to contribute to the community to do so through work. In recent years we have seen a trend in which more and more people live by public social benefits. Today, one out of five people in working life live on social security. In addition, the old-age pensioners come. At the same time, the number of people in medical rehabilitation and disability is increasing. Developments are very worrying. The welfare community is under pressure. The relationship between the economically active and the beneficiaries is weakened. We have to reverse the trend, and we have to get more people to work. This is about securing future pensions, but also about being able to provide good welfare services both today and in the years to come. One of the main changes in welfare policy will be the renewal of the pension scheme. The Pensions Commission shall submit its recommendation soon. The debate has already begun, and it must continue for another time. It concerns each of us -- the younger ones more than the older ones -- and I'm glad that the commitment is awakened. We need to focus on what helps people to get into working life and prevent people from falling out. Therefore, inclusive working life is important. But it's also important because the biggest differences are between those who have and those who don't have work. We need an increased understanding that the community needs all hands to shape well-being. Each of us has to contribute what we can. I want us to focus more on what we can do than we can't do. The questions are: Do we pay attention to the most disadvantaged in the 2004 budget? Do we have enough attention to it that involves help for self-help? The main target groups for actions in 2004 are: Long-term recipients of social assistance and low-employment immigrants. In the 2004 budget, we set up new jobs in labour market measures for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance, 45 million. kr. strengthens the competence of the social service in relation to long-term recipients of social assistance. Lonely caregivers in education. We need to ensure that more people complete education. Education qualifies for work. The government is now improving the benefit scheme for some groups of lone dependants in education. Homeless and drug addicts in need of follow-up. We are increasing the focus on follow-up services in housing for homeless and drug addicts in the metropolitan communities and expanding the framework for housing grants. Children’s families and others with low income and high housing costs. We propose to improve housing support schemes for disadvantaged families of children. Improvements in the housing support scheme are made by removing the area requirement for families with children in municipal rentals and raising the boute poison bar in the big cities. We propose to strengthen the provision of medically assisted rehabilitation for drug users, and we propose to establish 85 action sites for people in the LAR. We all know that a pill alone is not enough. It's also about finding new meaning in life, and it's about having something to stand up to every single day. We're changing the rehabilitation system. Requirements to consider re-entry shall take place earlier. We're now collecting this assessment in Aetat. This is important in relation to the working line and is an example of how the Government takes practical action to further coordination. With the measures contained in the 2004 draft budget, this government’s overall proposals for action aimed at poverty and poverty are close to DKK 2 billion. But more important than the actual number is that we see results: We have focused on labour market measures for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance. Per. On 1 November 4 825 Aetat was registered and on 1 December is 3 196 in actions. We target improvements in key schemes such as housing support and social welfare schemes for single dependants. We've strengthened the effort for the homeless. We work with non-governmental organisations. There is broad political consensus on the need to better organise the Aetat, social security and community social services. We're now investigating different models of how to do that. The case will be brought before the Stortinget during 2005. However, it is my duty to carry out the investigations required for the good work to be done. We have set up a public body to be set up on 30 June 2004. I've noticed the impatience in the committee, and I share it. Therefore, the sample has a tight deadline and must work quickly and efficiently. The selection must therefore have an appropriate organisational form. We have set up a large and broadly structured reference group with which the sample has close contact and dialogue. A whole of 32 organisations/activities or others involved in some way by the reform or with an interest in participating in it are involved in the reference group. Work on the intention agreement for a more inclusive working life is under way. About 50 pst. workers of the country are now working in an IA activity. At this time last year it was approx. 24 pst. Where things have started, we also see results. Work is slow, but in the future. The social partners and the Government agree to continue cooperation. I am happy to focus more on the disabled and the elderly. We are now also tailoring IA arrangements for small businesses. We agree that the workplace is the central venue for work, and we agree that all the objectives of the agreement are equivalent. Just before the summer, the government presented St.meld. No 40 for 2002–03 on the reduction of disability barriers. The communication is being discussed in the Committee and the debate will then be held. In the 2004 budget, the gross domestic product notification was followed up by 67.7 million. kr, broken down by areas of communication input; work and education, services and accessibility. In particular, the proposal that the employer’s share of 1⁄2 G of resources in the workplace should be eliminated is important. It makes it easier to hire people with disabilities. We are proposing ways of facilitating the university sector and the work of disabled people, and we are proposing to set up a dedicated documentation centre. In addition, the Government proposes to increase government funding for resource-intensive users by 550 million. kr. Next year. This implies that the municipalities are covered by 80 pst. of costs in addition to NOK 700000. This provides municipalities with a good financial basis for providing good care services to those with extensive assistance needs. Young people living in old-age and nursing homes will receive a different offer, if they wish. A most independent and normal life is a goal. A working group of representatives from the Norwegian Handicap Association, the FFO, the Social and Health Directorate and the Ministry of Social Affairs have recently presented a report with proposals for action to allow young people with disabilities who want a non-sick home to have an assessment and a plan for relocation. The government is following up with measures. The quality of nursing and care services is a concern of all of us. At the same time, we know that providing adequate and good enough services is a major challenge. Good services require good housing. Here we have made a promise through the action plan, but that is not enough. The Government has presented a separate quality advisory notice, which is now under consideration in the Committee. The Government is following up the Storing Message by proposing appropriations for several actions. In particular, the proposal to grant an additional 20 million is important. kr. for training and recruitment. A total of 130.9 million is proposed. kr. in 2004 for the recruitment plan. I see that the Committee will come back with proposals and views when the notification is being discussed. I look forward to the debate. Finally, the Labour Party and the Government parties have made a settlement that has given us a good budget, within a responsible framework. I will pay tribute to the Workers' Party for the willingness to cooperate that has been shown and that has led to a good social budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e912	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e915	The contract of inclusive employment, valid for the period from 3 October 2001 to 31 December 2005, provides that during the contract period no change shall be made to the sickness scheme. Nevertheless, the Government has put forward proposals to change precisely the sick pay scheme, and in budgetary negotiations it has not been possible to make the Government give way to that position. My question to the Minister for Social Affairs is, how can you argue that when you do the opposite of what's agreed, you don't commit a breach of contract?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e922	The question naturally concerns many, and I would like to say that it is full pay from the first day of absence. The question is, how long should you work before you are given full rights? The 14-day system that has been in force until now has not been adjusted for many years. I call this an adjustment. Furthermore, I would like to say that the Government has concluded an agreement with the social partners to extend the agreement on an inclusive working life with a number of clarifications. There is a strong growth in the cost of health care and other social security schemes. In particular, due to the increase in expenditure, but also in relation to the enlargement of the EEA territory, it has been important for the Government to target the sickness pay scheme against those who have a permanent link with the labour market. The sickness pay scheme is permanent, with full pay under sickness from the first day of absence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e929	It's strange to hear that the council here says it's going to be 100 pst. sickness pay. That's right. The problem is that the Council of State actually deprives a number of people of the opportunity to receive anything in the context of the sickness scheme. That's what's in the budget. Interestingly, the Council of State says that it has become a good budget, all the time that social tightening has actually taken place in the territory of this Council of States, cf. rehabilitation and sick pay. That's interesting. Today, there are a number of young people, young people with disabilities, in nursing homes and old people's homes, who want a different offer. My question to the Council of State is as follows: Why in the world cannot the state and the Norwegian system help these few people, who are in this unworthy situation. This government and the Council of State should be able to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e936	Let me first say that it is not acceptable for young people to have an offer for a nursing home. Secondly, it is important to say that it is a municipal responsibility to make an offer to its citizens, including those who require large resources. The government's emphasis is, first of all, that the municipalities will now have the opportunity, together with those involved, to make an individual plan. Top funding in relation to resource-intensive users will also be an important contribution in this way. The Ministry has cooperated closely with user organisations in this survey. When we have counted and seen how many are now without such an offer, and who at the same time want to get out of the hospital, we have said, the youngest first. But that does not mean that it is not a job to do in relation to those who are older and who also want a different offer. This top-level funding will be important. Being entitled to an individual plan will also be a central element. But the responsibility for the inhabitants lies in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e944	My question goes a little bit into the extension of what Nesvik raised. The new funding mechanism for resource-intensive users, decided by the Stortinget in spring, provided significant improvement for most municipalities. Nevertheless, we now know that some individual municipalities seem to be coming out very badly, even with the new scheme. Against this background, the majority of the population today will therefore decide to ask the Government to evaluate the scheme on an ongoing basis, while at the same time using its discretionary means to correct these imbalances. The question to the Council of State will then be: how will the Council of State actively intervene and ensure that, for years to come, the state officials use the discretionary means in the manner requested by the Grand Government? Will the Council of State possibly come back to the Storting with proposals for changes to this scheme, if the ongoing evaluation shows that this may be necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e953	Yes, I am going to follow the management of this system carefully. We've already done that. We have used the statesmen, including in the mapping, and that is the conversation with each and every one of them, including their relatives. They've been asked if they want to go out, or if they want to be. Top funding will be an important contribution. If not 550 million. kr – over half a billion kr – should be an important contribution to this, I don't know! In addition, we also have the discretionary means. I notice that the representative is concerned that the statesmen should be able to use these. It'll also be possible for the statesmen to do that. It is important that we have two institutions in the country that can also help and assist the individual and provide a professional assessment of the organisation outside the institution. Then I think in particular of Muritunet and Valnesfjord. I record what the majority of the committee has said. I think it's perfectly obvious that we have to follow this group, which is one of the most vulnerable we have. So it will also have my attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e964	A small visit from me also concerns people with disabilities living in nursing homes, and the top funding model that is now established for resource-intensive users. Hasn't the Council of State, based on the reactions of the municipalities, concluded that this top-level funding scheme is perhaps too poor to take care of what the Stortinget and the Social Committee are concerned about? So to the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party. That's $40 million. kr on the resources of the Swedish Social Fund for various projects. And then the comment says the following: «This reduction shall not affect projects relating to the contract of an inclusive working life.» I assume that the Council of State has looked at what kind of follows this cut of 40 million. kr sheep, and would like to hear what effects she thinks it will have, and which projects will be modified according to the cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e976	It is possible that the funding, with a top level of funding compared to resource-intensive users, may not be as the representative for Luttvold wants. We would like to discuss funding forms in the years to come, but what I'm concerned about is that we don't have a funding scheme that rewards municipalities to send young people with disabilities to nursing homes. So the next question in relation to disabled people and aids. There it is that the government has prioritised work and daily life. The funds have gone to it. It is possible that the representative Glow Violence now thinks about off-road vehicle – I don't see it is, but in any case it is important to say that we have prioritised work and daily life. We would have liked to see that we had prioritised more, but here the money didn't go.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e983	It seems that the Ministry and the Minister for Social Affairs are engaged in the task of bringing together Aetat, social security and social work. It's in line with the majority of the Storting, and we're happy about that. However, it is worrying that the Ministry appears to have overlooked, or not taken over, the emphasis of the majority of the population on the importance of the involvement of user organisations and employee organisations in this work. Does the State Council consider that participation in an peripheral reference group serves their interests? And how can it be explained that the FFO has withdrawn from this work because of the lack of power?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e990	The ffo withdrew because they could not be in the sample. I have emphasized that the door is open to them at all times. ‘Perifer reference group’ says the representative Hildeng. Reference group, I say – active in the sample, in close contact. I find it quite alarming that the representative Hildeng focuses on one organisation when it comes to 32 more, and where everyone thinks they have the user perspective. For employee organisations, for user organisations, and for employee organisations – 32 in the figure. But the FFO is cordially welcome at any time, and the door is still open.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1002	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1005	The draft budget and the budgetary conciliation ensure a good profile within the framework of the 15 and 16 frameworks, and many important issues for the Christian People's Party are thus underlined and reinforced. Alcohol abuse is one of our greatest social medical challenges, and it is so important to combat the recent recruitment of young drug addicts. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that in 2004 an alcohol detention campaign was launched, targeting both the general population and the youth groups in particular. It's going to be $15 million. SEK for the 2004 campaign. Such a campaign is happily new to the Christian People's Party, and we hope that the campaign will have at least as good results as the last year's tobacco campaign. Many fates could be different if parents and young people had a better knowledge of drugs. Cooperation agencies have pointed out that the main focus in drug policy is on youth and prevention. The fact that parents and young people care and have knowledge of drugs is the best way to prevent. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that this government has seen the project of the RUS telephone launched, and that this project will be continued in 2004. Drug abuse causes major problems for each individual and for society significant costs. This burden is not controlled by uncontrollable forces, but can be reduced by an active public policy. Of course, there is no political universality or simple grip that solves all problems, but prevention and the free environment are measures that the majority of the Committee has stressed strongly in the budgetary position. The majority regard the free environment as an important sub-strategy of prevention and suggested that the cultural prevention aspect should continue to be stimulated through support for the free environment. There has been a clear desire for a top-level funding model for resource-requiring users. The different parts of this house have had different models and desires, but one has all had a common desire for a state-owned top finance model to be established. Thus, as the first government, the co-operation administration has implemented this and has proposed such a top-level funding approach for 2004. This scheme will ensure that municipalities are compensated for a greater proportion of their expenditure, thus facilitating a good service provision for this group. The State will compensate the municipalities for their expenses in excess of NOK 700000, corresponding to NOK 80. on a national basis. Municipalities that have a particularly high cost in relation to the population will also receive higher compensation. This scheme is funded as an estimate, and an estimated DKK 1.2 billion has been proposed for the purpose in 2004. This is an increase of 550 million. Compared to the 2003 budget, this must be characterised as a major effort. This new scheme will ensure better service provision for users and more care for municipalities. For the Christian People's Party, it is crucial that young people with disabilities do not have to resort to age institutions against their will. The Ministry of Social Affairs has warned that by the end of 2005, all young people with disabilities will have to move to alternative housing if they so wish. This signal is welcome for the Christian People's Party. In order to enable municipalities to provide the disabled with a good supply, the introduction of this new top funding model for resource-required users is crucial. With such a top-level funding, a poor provision of disabled people in municipalities can no longer be eliminated. Amathea is the only instance, both public and private, that has abortion counselling for pregnant women as its primary task. The choice between completing or discontinuing pregnancy may be difficult, and it is therefore crucial that a person has an opportunity to offer such conversations. The client will also be offered follow-up after the choice is taken, regardless of the outcome of the choice. The Christian People's Party believes that Amathea is doing an important job, and that the advisory office is a very important contributor to the abortion-building work. So it's positive that Amathea gets an increase of 0.5 million. kr in the year’s budget. The Christian People's Party is happy that the Government is following up St. Meld. No 16 for 2002–03 Public health work shall be strengthened in all sectors of society. The most important country can contribute to creating a good framework for local public health work — providing care and opportunity for adaptation based on local needs. The Christian People's Party wants public health into the different social planning venues, because it's about creating conditions for a good society. And if public health work is to produce results, it must be anchored locally, it must be based on both knowledge and dialogue with the people involved. A project to which a collective committee refers before public health work is Trivselshagen at Sandane in Gloppen. A collective committee says this is a very good project. Favor develops self-confidence, so that we can take more and tolerate more, both as individuals and as groups. The Trivselshagen shall be a meeting place in the community — a tank for national knowledge development within the field of well-being and public health. It is therefore a special day for Trivselshagen on Sandane and for local public health work when a joint committee points out that Trivselshagen is a national pilot project and says that the project is very good and that it will be taken care of and seen in action. The objective of social and health policies must be respect for human life and human dignity, care for weaker situations, prevention efforts and security for individuals and creating new opportunities. As I see it, the 2004 government budget priorities are well within this objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1035	Budgetary treatment of the Social Committee is given considerable attention to the population. It is expressed in different ways, but in particular the involvement around local hospitals and the future functions of local hospitals is great. It is therefore essential that the Committee today emphasises the important role of local hospitals and should play in the health care of the future in Norway. When an overall committee underlines the importance of a decentralised emergency and food supply, this must be taken into account in the further work on health reform. That's a good direction for much of what's going on in the psychiatry field, but it's of course a long way to go until we can offer all those with mental disorders the help they need. We're all earned that the Stortinget has psychiatry high on the political agenda. The price that society and individuals have to pay if we don't succeed in this work is too bad. There is every reason to trust the Minister of Health's commitment to the mentally ill and the supply they need. I hope that the Minister of Health is to understand that he keeps the health companies in mind, so that they give priority to psychiatry, as the Stortinget and well the Minister of Health expect. They must not be given the opportunity to plan for, for example: District Psychiatric Centres on the other hand, almost overnight. All the institutions are located in a municipality, and I want to use an example from Kragerø. There the municipality has built a new hospital to release premises to a district psychiatric centre with 8-10 beds. So they have done the job the county asked them to build such a center. But, hustle, all plans for money are shattered and centralised. Back home are many employees, patients and their relatives, in fact, an entire community, and feel that this is strange treatment. Of course, it is perceived as contrary to what the Storting has said about decentralizing the offer to people with mental disorders. Instead of developing district psychiatric centres, they are wound up before they get started. This must be completely unacceptable. Many people have had great hopes that they will be helped to cope with their mental illness as close as possible to their place of residence. I must almost hope that this example is unique, so that something can be done about it. I have come to understand that the Progress Party is constantly trying to tell me that the Workers' Party is preventing the realization of Mental Health Norway's learning and competence centre in Skien. The Labour Party is pleased with the majority in the vote and considers it a long step in the right direction so that this centre can become part of the psychiatry escalation plan. With different choices of words, everyone in the social committee is concerned that people should return to work after illness, not just because social security payments cost a lot of money, but because it is important to take care of human capital. We know that several institutions have developed a high level of competence, and they can thus show good results in rehabilitation. It is very gratifying that the government parties in this position are involved in forming a majority in order to further develop the Attribution Centre in Rauland into a national centre of competence in vocational rehabilitation. At the Athletic Centre in Rauland, labour-oriented methodology is well-tested, and it has produced very good results. Eight out of ten long-term sick people return to work. It is also very positive that this setting focuses on the main reason why so many women are underapproached, namely fibromyalgia. It feels like a long step forward when the government parties have also agreed to refer to the competence of Jæley Kurbad in Eastfold in this area. In the Workers' Party, we hope that the time will now be needed for Jæløy Kurbad in Østfold to become a national centre of competence in the field of fibromyalgia. It will be a great victory for many women with very painful chronic disorders.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1050	The budgetary agreement between the Government and the Workers' Party has led to more money for hospitals, the fight against poverty and drug problems and preventive health work. The right is satisfied that the government has been able to grant 948 million in historical terms. to combat poverty. That's an increase of 239 million. kr in relation to the current year. The budget agreement also provides the basis for continuing a historically high level of patient treatment, and the focus on psychiatry is this year the largest so far in the escalation period. Through the budgetary agreement, we have also found room to strengthen drug prevention further. At the same time, we have strengthened the prevention of health work among children and young people. The latter, in particular, will benefit non-governmental organisations. St.meld. No 16 for 2002-2003, The prescription for a healthier Norway underlines the need to focus on prevention, especially among children and young people. A 10 million increase in appropriations. to non-governmental organisations focusing on preventive health work through increased physical activity are fully in line with the Government’s public health communication strategy. It is important to prevent poor health for those who are healthy. However, it is at least equally important to provide a good offer to children and young people who are unable to participate in the activities that sports teams and non-governmental organisations can offer healthy children. In St. prp. No 1 The Government states that it will continue to focus on the rehabilitation of children. Children and young people with chronic illness and disability often need a wide, planned and long-term habilitation service. It is therefore positive that the Government facilitates the development of an individual plan for children in need of long-term and coordinated offers. It is important that good offers are made and that resources are mainly used to build up and strengthen professionally good services both in the specialist health service and in the municipalities. There is no secret that the Right is concerned with freedom of choice. I am therefore pleased that the habilitation service is strengthened, by parents who want to use alternative treatments such as: The Doman method for their children should be able to choose such treatment. It is very important that an investigation into such treatment is carried out irrespective of where a resident is in the country and that regional health care establishments are responsible for following up families with children who wish to receive such treatment. Where it is professionally sound to provide such training, the municipality of home, in cooperation with the undertakings, shall assess financial and practical support for the training. Once the choice has been made, it is important that parents are respected and that they receive the help and support they have the right and the right to. We feel that too many so-called heavier users, often younger people with disabilities, are placed in hospitals, as such services are the most reasonable and favourable for municipalities. The story has said that those who want it are going out of hospital. The government has ensured that from 2004 a top-level funding model will be established for resource-intensive users, with a government coverage of 80 pst. on a country-by-country basis, of expenditure exceeding DKK 700000 per municipality. user. It is important to point out that municipalities with particularly high expenditures in relation to the population will receive a higher compensation than 80pst, while municipalities with relatively lower expenditures per year. the population, will have a lower coverage than 80 pst. For 2004, it has proposed DKK 1.2 billion for this purpose, which represents a real increase of SEK 550 million. kr from 2003. Finally, I would like to point out that research into female health is strengthened in line with the intention of public health communication, and that research into osteoporosis and mental health in this exercise is a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1074	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1077	The representative of SV, Olav Gunnar Ballo, continues to misrepresent how they redispatch money within the framework of 16. If a reader reads the table to SV, it may seem reasonable for SV to increase the allocation to hospital by DKK 1.2 billion. But the new task that SV will give companies, reimbursement to private, costs over NOK 1.9 billion only in payments. Here, there's a difference of over 758 million. In addition, the administrative costs of managing such a large system, which is currently in the Rikstrygdeverket, and the government parties and the Workers' Party have invested 500 million. kr extra in addition to the government proposal. This means that the difference between SV's proposal for hospitals and the proposal adopted in the room today is well above NOK 1.2 billion. This means that these 1.2 billion have to be admitted to hospitals by improving their efficiency. In the name of justice, it is said that SV spends some of this money on various psychiatry projects, but it is quite clear that such a requirement for efficiency would also have to go beyond the supply of the mentally ill. It may well be that SV does not believe this, but wants to illustrate their policy through such redeployment, that they want to show in a way what their budget would have looked like ideally, but are not willing to take the consequences of this. In this case, there is only symbolism policy, and the priorities of the SV in this area will in this way only be symbols, and not realities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1084	When the budgetary position of the 2004 Social Committee was in place, it was a happy day in Rome and in Akershus. I think of the fact that New Akershu University Hospital – Ahus – is being built in Lørenskog. There is no concealment that the uncertainty was high after the submission of the State budget in October. The Health Minister and the Department said there was enough money in the budget to start building New Aarhus in 2004, while the Health East said the opposite: This is too bad – funding is not enough. But this is what we leave behind today. Today, neither blame nor mouth is distributed – today, praise, thanks and honor are distributed. It is very gratifying that the bulk of the population – the working party, the government parties and the Progress Party – clearly states that the construction of New Aarhus should start in spring 2004. The committee leader was crystal clear in the opening post of today's debate. The same was Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. SV and the Center Party are also quite clear on the matter. That's why there's a total accumulation, perhaps with the exception of the Coastal Party, which thinks the construction of New Aarhus is finally about to begin. It is well known and well documented that a new hospital is needed. However, let me mention some key words to substantiate the need. Firstly, Akershus is the region in the country where population growth is expected to be strongest in the years to come. Secondly, today's building mass on Ahus is old, worn out and little functional. The buildings are in such a bad condition that technical professionals are actually in doubt as to whether it is practicable to operate hospitals there a few years in advance. We're already late out. We're overtime. There's a hurry to build a new hospital! It has been many years since the former hospital owner, Akershus County, started working with the new hospital. And already in 2000 the county council was in discussions with the department about size and functions. In the summer of 2001, agreement was reached between the county and the department on how to build the new hospital. After Health East took responsibility for the hospital reform last year, we still understood that the project had a high priority. So it knelt a little bit more, and we got another round. The project was reduced by NOK 2 billion, so we are now talking about a revised hospital project. Finally, if there were to be something still hanging a little bit, it had to be Health East's assessments of the sketched scheme. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to challenge the Minister of Health that what the Stortinget decides remains to be followed by a subordinate body – that is, Health East has the same understanding and assessment of the political solution for which it is now a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1110	I hear that Bent Höie repeats his incorrect comments regarding SV and SV's alternative budget. So compared to the government, SV is proposing $1280.5 million. kr more for health enterprises. In comparison, the Labour Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party proposed 447 million in their draft budget. kr more for health enterprises. If you had the same reasoning for the proposal from the government parties and the Workers' Party that Bent Höie does for SV, it would be about 372 million. NOK, in which case they will have to deduct the cuts they have both in relation to the reimbursement of specialist assistance of SEK 60 million. NOK 15 million and reimbursement of psychological assistance. kr, something I see that Bent Höie doesn't include in his considerations when he then rains over half a billion. But what I have underlined on behalf of SV is that we believe that there will be significant efficiency possibilities by coordinating, in the direction of health care companies, the tasks of private practitioners, psychologists, laboratory services and x-ray services. We think that's important. But what health businesses want to dispose of is not less, but more. That's almost NOK 1.3 billion more. Then I record that a very central debate has been going on on on the extent to which the Storting should have governance options for health companies. I note that the Workers' Party is taking up its proposal once again when we deal with health reform, a proposal that requires advice from health companies, where there should also be elected politicians. There's a kind of advice that you can remember existed back in the 1960s. The head of such a council was Balle Klorin. It's obvious that there'll be soup that will be at the center of that kind of advice. It's also a completely opposite model of what SV wants. We want elected representatives to have the power to make changes, while the model proposed by the Labour Party reduces elected representatives to bureaucrats, who will then be in charge of the decisions. And that's a completely meaningless model. Nevertheless, I see that the Workers' Party has been able to create the impression that they want elected control repeatedly, in connection with the election campaign and in different ways. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has said to Namdalsavisa on 23 October that he wants the Stortinget to adopt premises for health company boards, which state that local hospitals must be equipped with emergency functions, and underlines the need to have more popular governance. That's what SV is proposing. That is not what the Workers' Party proposes. But unfortunately, we are not able here in the Chamber to get support from the Workers' Party for such a model. I have to say that part of the statements that have fallen in the election campaign of various working party politicians, and as far as Britt Hildeng is concerned today, are alarming. This argues against the closure of the maternity ward at Aker Hospital, at the same time as the budget agreement. So we have a proposal that the department should pass, that it should not be closed, which is not supported by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1121	I want to follow up on Mr. Olav Gunnar Ballo's contributions on the psychiatry. I have to go a long way to agree with the representative of Ballo that the situation in psychiatry is not as good as anyone wants it to be. Right these days, we are facing a good deal of crises in the Oslo area. I'm thinking about Gaustad, where it's going to be laid down seven days' place, three days' place at the Furuset District Psychiatric Centre is going to be laid down, five beds at Folloclinik are going to be laid down, eight day-patient places at Grefsenlia are going to be laid down. My message in this context is: we've been talking about adult psychiatry, we've been talking about child and youth psychiatry, where conditions have improved, but not good enough there either. But we have a category of psychiatric patients that are actually forgotten, it's the older long-term spaces that may have been in institutions for 20 to 30 years and that are now being sent as parcels from one place to another. And it's worse than that. All of these 15 patients that I now brought out and showed where they were, have not received a single signal on where they will be from 1 January, from 1 March, from 1 April. Is it possible to treat the weakest of the weakest in psychiatry in this way? I mean no. And I'm at least happy with what the Health Minister said in a line here. He said something that he should ensure that no psychiatric patient is moved from the current treatment site until another offer is available. If the Minister of Health manages to implement it, we have come very far. But I don't think it's possible even for the Minister of Health to follow up on this. So I think that the main essence of this budget debate should be the focus on psychiatry, where businesses now need to understand and understand that the Storting does not accept the way this is happening today. Because there are plans for significant reductions in psychiatry around the enterprises, where they lay down departments, cut bed places. Patients have not received a similar offer, and we cannot accept that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1132	Let me first say that the post that the representative, Mr Ballo, just held from this pulpit, was alarming. At least it shows that SV has a problem, because here it is the situation that the SV's principal spokesman in the Social Committee has not understood his own budget. There is a slightly special situation, but after hearing the article, it can be difficult to interpret as something else. What made me take the floor was a bit of the rhetoric that the Progress Party has used today against the Workers' Party, and that has probably not been more than what you could expect. But the interesting thing about the rhetoric and the issues you've been trying to raise with us in the Workers' Party is that what you're saying in many ways is, why hasn't the Workers' Party been able to fix the wrong progress party last year? I thank you in many ways for your trust, but it may not be our primary task in Norwegian policy. Why couldn't we use our power to make that Progress Party not power? No, we haven't. But this illustrates the dilemma of the welfare society in many ways. It's hard to build, but easy to tear down. We have insisted in budgetary negotiations that almost all the tax relief proposed had to go away before we could go into conciliation – we have to spend the money at our disposal to strengthen Community solutions. Then we've gotten a little bit on our way, but not quite in terms of goal. But what was the starting point of the last year's budgetary agreement? The Progress Party then said: now we have to remove all tax concessions so that we can finance the Community solutions? No, the starting point of the last year's budgetary agreement was, among other things, that the party insisted that one of the most important things that would happen was to get a reduced annual fee on caravans! It was like the power roof. And then the funeral allowance went and the unemployed lost their holiday money, etc. You just have to try to compare the social profile in next year's budget with that year's budget, but you don't get far in that comparison. I'll try to end up a little bit more in the red corner, and say the following: I don't think there will be any doubt that the representative John I. Alvheim one day will leave this house with a good imitation, not least in terms of strong social commitment. But that recommendation will also include that he was among those who made sure to vote so that the burial aid was terminated as a general welfare scheme in that country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1143	Let me first highlight three aspects. First of all, the Centre Party is not satisfied with the government's lack of experience when it concerns many of our hospitals in relation to the treatment offered to the individual hospital. Secondly, we want a real escalation plan when it's about the psychiatry. And thirdly, we want an action plan against poverty that is not for the sick and the unemployed to pay. Then I'll use my minutes to talk about the theme of resource-intensive users. It is gratifying that a system is now in place in this area, a government funding scheme for users with special needs. There should be the very test of how far we are going to go, how far society is going to have Community solutions. The center party wants a prudent system. We think the level should be such that the alternative, the hospital place, is not to prefer financial considerations, and we think that one should see the local economy and the tightness that is there, in conjunction with where we put the scheme. It means in plain text that the scheme is not good enough as it is now attached. The point of impact of NOK 700000 and a cover of 80 pst. of the average cost at country level means that municipalities must first cover NOK 100000 and subsequently also have large costs of non-sickness care. It's a strange experience to read the Progress Party's comments in this case, because it's the Progress Party that has made sure that the Government has multiples for the arrangements that are now being implemented. It appears in the treatment of the municipal proposition, where a settlement was reached between the government party and the Progress Party. All the parties had their own arrangements in the setting of the municipal bill, which we subsequently sewed together. If one were to enter for 700000 kroner and 80 pst. coverage, which would be helpful to the individual client, we needed to gather on the Workers' Party's proposal. The center part and SV were lower. Our proposal was 600,000 kroner and 100 pst. coverage. The progress party had another suggestion. So in the current setting, the Progress Party is criticising the system for which they have secured multiples. A MS patient on the Nesodden has shown us in the last few days how important it is with a lower entry point scheme. The Neosod is one of the municipalities that will now be framed and get less money next year than they have this year, for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1156	The Minister of Health gave a number that the Centre Party has been involved in asking for the birth of Aker Hospital to be maintained and not closed. We know we've done that. We believe that what has been tested and developed food at Aker Hospital – and the alternative that lies there – should have been taken care of. We think it is very important that we do not put down this offer. We are making a cabal – which, to the extent indicated by the Minister of Health, and which we are not particularly pleased with – that people in the Aker Hospital neighborhood, in the Groruddalen, for example, are going to Aarhus, while people from the Follo area are going to Aker Hospital. This is very bad, and that's why we're also concerned about what's happening to the plans for a Follo hospital. In addition, the Centre Party considers that the closure of any part of the food department in that country should be submitted to the Size of treatment before any change is made. So also a little visit to the Minister of Health. I asked about the consequences of a cut of 40 million. kr for various projects on top. 2600 item 01 Social security. It must then be allowed to say that the Minister of Social Affairs was probably a bit of a gauge in his reference to off-road vehicle. Then to the hospital policy in this country. We want to maintain a full hospital, not least a local hospital, to have the emergency medical supply. We are afraid that the division and sectionalisation that is now taking place will tear up good links between different medical disciplines and thus weaken, among other things. emergency preparedness. As far as psychiatry is concerned, I agree with the representative of Alvheim and the representative of Ballo that the situation there is not as good as you would like to present it as. The consideration of children and young people and their waiting time, the consideration of the heaviest and most resource-intensive in psychiatry, and now – after the drug reform – those with double diagnosis, mean that this needs to be taken more seriously and given greater priority. So a little bit about good rehabilitation, like, among other things. The representative was Gunn Olsen. Good rehabilitation is a good investment both for individuals and for the public. It's a little surprising that, as far as professional recruitment is concerned, a large majority in this committee have disregarded the fact that we have two good institutions for this in this country, namely the Attractive Centre in Rauland and the Hernes Institute. And both should evolve according to their skills, qualifications and goals. We may need more than one such centre in each health region to care for the professional return we need. We'll come back to the medicine area later. I just want to say that when the Central Party proposes that the appropriations for blue prescription medicine should be an estimate, we see this as a temporary arrangement until we get a comprehensive review of the entire pharmaceutical field from production to use. It's important, and so it's a little disappointing that it's just the Progress Party and the Center Party that are behind that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1171	First of all, just a few small comments to the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa: in the municipal committee we presented two proposals. Our primary proposal involved a state-owned 100 p.p. price financing, based on the number of users, the money would follow the user. First, the Progress Party promoted a proposal that meant that the municipal excess was set at DKK 400,000 per year. uses, but supported the subsidiary position to cover the expenditure of municipalities in addition to that amount. It is also worth noting that the Progress Party today will actually subsidize the proposal to reduce the proportion to 600 000 kroner because a health resort actually costs less than 700000 kroner. But we are primarily promoting our own proposal. I'll quote the following: ‘The government outlines a poverty package, but creates more deserving and potential social clients by – cutting it in the children’s allowance for lone dependants...’ Second indent: ‘– needs-tested burial aid is introduced, and it makes more social clients.’ Further: ‘Financial security is not realised on the basis of a human view based on suspicion, as proposed by the financial penalties applicable to those who are not in full employment:’;» The following indent is added below: ‘– in the case of threats to reduce sick pay if one of the 20 pst objectives of the Memorandum of Understanding. reduction not being achieved.’» These are quotes from Brit Hildeng's articles in this room last year. Today, the same Brit Hildeng is in favour of a proposal to reduce the sick pay scheme by extending the period necessary to build up that entitlement. It is up to the representative Hildeng to move in, in particular when the representative Hill-Marta Solberg last year explained that there was no subsidiary reality. Furthermore, the representative Brit Hildeng must also take it upon himself that, through the conciliation between the government parties and the Workers' Party in the Committee, provision has been made for reducing the social security contribution to child care for single dependants. It harmonises very poorly with the representative Hildeng was inside his post. Then to the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. To put it straight out: the working party shows its true face in this matter of the tomb help and the tomb support. If the Workers' Party were serious about this being such an important point, they would at least have tried to get it back into the budget. We have to take inwards that it was removed last year. We have to take responsibility for that. But after the post that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen had in this room last year, it is strange that the same person at all has not shown the will to reverse this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1207	Several have been in the debate on the escalation plan for mental health. Let me remind you that, in the area of mental health protection today, more and more people are seeking help, and more and more people are getting help. Waiting time goes down for both adults and for children and young people. At the same time, it's not an idyll. We have taken stock of the budget document and shown that in some areas we are well on track, in other areas we are behind the route. That is why we have proposed an extension of the plan. The escalation plan for mental health is not a protective plan. It's a escalating plan and a conversion plan. It means that something should be expanded, something should be built down, and something definitely should not be built up, but be at the level it is today. It is not such that the escalation plan has been based on the health care homes to be protected. Hospitals shall be built down – that is the assumption of the Storting. But it is also the Storting's assumption that district-spychiatric centers and dwellings should be built up, and that there should be a connection between what is being built up and what is being built down. That is what I have made clear to health companies in the letter I referred to earlier today. This is not as it may appear, when some departmental consultants stand up and say that they have not seen anything about the escalating materials in their hospital department. No, but neither has the Storting provided. The size provided that the unconstruction of district psychiatric centers and services in the municipalities would relieve the hospital wards, so that they could be given more room to help the most seriously ill. It is the contents of the escalation plan. The debate must not give the impression of anything else. Otherwise, I would agree entirely with the representative Alvheim that the descriptions he gave are not acceptable if they result in correctness. I can point out that in the budget proposal, we have mentioned older people with mental disorders as a special group that should be given greater attention, not least when it comes to building competences in the service apparatus. Finally, let me also point out to the representative Alvheim, who said in his main post that the hospital reform has so far been a great success. I agree. At the same time, he said that he was uncertain about the future agenda of the Minister of Health regarding the reform. He has no reason for that. My efforts in implementing the hospital reform are linked to implementing the decisions of the majority of the majority of the population and implementing the guidelines adopted by the majority of the population. I have no other agenda than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1220	John Alvheim has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1224	When I said in my main post that I was uncertain on the Minister of Health's agenda in the future, it was because this government now for the third year in a row is presenting an operating budget for the companies that are not going to join, and will not cover the tasks that health businesses are assigned, neither in the case of somatic and psychiatry. There's nothing more behind it than that. I asked for the floor to come back to the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. It was a wonderful answer he gave to my question in the main post. I am not at all interested in my imitation in this house. What I'm interested in, and what I'm trying to work for, is to have a good conscience when I go home from this house. So I could imagine asking: Did Bjarne Håkon Hanssen suggest getting back the tomb help, or did he not?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1233	I would like to make a little visit to the representative of Lutvold, who probably assumed that I was on earth in my answer. It is possible that vaguely understood is unclear. At least I just want to give feedback that it is clear that you notice a reduction of 40 million. kr in the funds of the Rikstrøgdeverket, but not marked on the IA work. We will address this in the allocation letter, both in terms of simplification, reorganisation and further electronic development. Now I suppose I can comfort the representative that I think we were actually on the same ground, because the visit that Glütvold made to me was addressed to the Minister of Health. But now we were going to be up the road again both. Secondly, I would like to pay a little visit to the representative of Meltveit Kleppa. With regard to the desire for a poverty plan that is not to be paid by those who are unemployed, etc., I would like to say that it is not that all cuts are unsocial. I have noticed that the Central Party believes that 900,000 in this country are so-called worthy of need in relation to self-employment and any adjustments. I hardly think 900,000 are poor in this country. In that case, I have registered that there are some people here in this room who also come under the self-interest. We've been investing in poverty from the very beginning. We've focused our efforts. We have spent NOK 2 billion just in relation to targeted poverty measures. It goes to help those who are long-term recipients of social assistance. We see that it works, that more people come to work as well as to action. There's someone who doesn't have a home, who's homeless. We have focused our efforts on them in particular. We see that we may also have some challenges in relation to the Center Party. Instead of spreading a little bit more widely, we should rather discuss where the boundary goes. Who really is poor? Who's the one that's worthy of need? We see that that policy is important, but at the same time we see that it does not help those who actually need it the most, that they actually fall by the wayside. In relation to the specific target groups that I, among others, mentioned in my main post, the government has been clear from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1240	The central party wants to be with the government in the fight against poverty, but we cannot do that as long as the government has been so petty in the arrangements of its policy. They have gone away from the most important of the five strategies of the Equalisation Communication, namely a more equitable tax system. What I asked for the word for now applies once again to the resource-requiring users, and to the arrangements that are now being put into effect from 1 January. It is a system that has been under continuous improvement since the year 2000, and it is a system on which the Municipal Committee in the United Kingdom has spent a great deal of time. On that basis, I thought it was strange to read the comments from the Progress Party today, when it is those who have to take responsibility for it being in ours – and that is still so – several for the system that is now being introduced and that too many people seem very inadequate. The one thing that's hard is, of course, the point of entry. What is even more difficult for municipalities is that the scheme is now so remote, because one at country level has average costs, and not a fixed percentage coverage over an entry point. It is just as Nesvik says, that the Progress Party had a primary position that was established in the spring – entry point 400,000 kroner, 70 pst. the recovery of costs up to NOK 600 000, and then 90 pst. coverage over it. What has not been clear enough is that when the vote from the municipal committee was in the lead, it was only the Progress Party, because they had some with the Government, which signaled that they went for the Government’s arrangement – fortunately an improved arrangement, made by the Right and Christian People’s Party in the Municipal Committee, in proportion to what the Government had been listening to, and which had an entry point of NOK 800,000. Let me say that I'm very pleased that the Progress Party has now turned around, but it's a little late, because now a non-starting arrangement for the municipalities is agreed. But what's best is that the Progress Party, together with the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV, is involved in securing multiple numbers for a proposal for a continuous evaluation, and on the further use of discretionary means. It is very important, because it actually looks as if the Minister of Social Affairs is satisfied with the arrangements that are now being put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1251	Harald T. Nesvik has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1254	I am not going to spend so much of my time on the possible negotiations that have been in the municipal committee before, but rather on what we are debating today, that is, the State budget for health and social affairs. The Minister of Social Affairs was in place, and indicated that 900,000 today come under the self-employed and that there are no 900,000 poor people in this country. No, that's absolutely right. I fully agree with the Minister for Social Affairs. But the proposal to increase self-interest also affects those who are poor, it hits blindly, because one rises from the bottom. Although fewer people come under self-interest, those with the least — often sick people, and often those with whom we refer in relation to the problem of poverty — actually have to pay an increase of DKK 200. If the Social Minister had got what she wanted, these had to pay NOK 2,500. There is no correlation between the number to which the Minister of Social Affairs refers and the fact that those with the least in this country now have to pay more in increased proportions. It's a fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1261	Ola D. Glötvold has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1264	First, a brief comment on the term ‘worthy needy’. I would wish for a society where we didn't have that concept. I think it's a class society description that we shouldn't have. The central party wants us to have the minimum tax on medicine and medical treatment, and we want a tax distribution that depends on ability and income, where there might be a slightly higher tax burden than what the government undoubtedly adds. So a correction: the committee leader said that their party was behind a proposal for a basic research center for ADHD, and did not take with the Center Party. But we're more of an accessory to it, and I hope the department will follow suit. Then I have a visit to the Minister of Health on radon. Radon action has not been continued due to the resolution of the national cancer plan. Yes, but when the State Radiation Protection Agency has started working with 44 municipalities in 2002, i.e. last year, and people were expecting money, I think this is cheating people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1275	There is no doubt that the system for particularly resource-intensive users needs to be improved beyond what it has become. It has become much better, but is still not good enough, because the proportion for municipalities is so high that the costs are still so high that many municipalities choose, and are forced to choose, unwanted solutions, as they are today. The reason why I take the floor is the government's sea rose when it comes to poverty. SV has taken care of putting together the numbers for how much this government has done for the poor, and how much they have done for the richest in recent years. During 2002, 2003 and 2004, the very poorest have lost SEK 6.1 billion in various cuts, which we have combined from the various budgets. The richest have received $4.9 billion cash in the lab. It is possible that the government thinks this is a poverty operation, but we do not share that view. At the latest yesterday, this hall debated the benefits and opportunities for vocational rehabilitation. Yesterday we removed 266 million. NOK from those who are sick and without work. I don't think so and SV is very much to brag about. So it's the targeting of the money. The government has been incredibly good at targeting the money: right to the richest. When the criticism comes that you don't want such high self-esteem, the government says that not all sick people are poor. No, that's not it, but all the kingdoms are really rich. The government, for example, removes tax on dividends on shares. It's just looking at the statistics, we know who gets the money. It's the richest who gets the money. There was NOK 1.7 billion cash right at the lab, without the government having to think about a second who was the most worthy needy at the time. It is not that this Government has a poverty policy that is good. They take more from the poor, and they give out to the rich – take both hands from the poor, and give with both hands to the rich. That they looked behind put on some poverty measures to the most worthy needy, does not help. Unfortunately, the poverty rate in Norway is increasing, and that is the responsibility of this Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1284	I am pleased that this debate shows that the majority of Storting wants to control the hospital sector through general plans and leadership from Stortinget, and not through a detailed management down to a single department level. I note that the Central Party disagrees with this. The centre party wants to control the hospitals at department level from this room. I'm going to estimate that in Norway we have something like a thousand hospital wards, so the Stortinget is going to get pretty busy if you're going to live up to the Central Party's governance ambitions. What the Center Party actually does is place the Storting in the role of an average county hospital ownership. It wasn't the intention of the hospital reform. I am glad that the majority in this Chamber does not agree with that kind of premise. But when the Central Party is going to rule, they're going to make the food department in Aker, among all the food departments of the country, subject to decisions in this room. I'm sure the Central Party voters in the districts will notice – that in this debate the Central Party was most concerned with young, healthy girls on Ullern who would not be born in Bærum.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1291	I should just like to ask that the proposal for Decision XII under Framework Section 16 be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1296	It has to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1300	Firstly, I am pleased with the commitment to the Socialist Left in relation to helping those who need it the most. Questions have now been asked about SV's accounting skills here earlier today, and when SV says that the Government's poverty initiative amounts to 575 million. kr, I think it's important to include the entire calculation -- that's what I've seen in the documents. It is close to $1 billion in investment in 2004 – 240 new millions. What is given in 2002 and 2003 has to be included. I record that SV is busy taking away from the rich, more than focusing on those who are actually weak. When I look at SV's draft budget, they have a very broad definition of poverty, that everyone in the population's fear seems to be in need. It's not like that. I also think that there should be a recognition in SV that the problem is not that we have a few who have too much, but that we have too many who do not have enough in any way. I also register that SV wants us to work more and get less, and this is not how the calculation goes. I also see that SV in its budget reduces the limit on paying so-called top tax – or payroll tax, as it is often called. I think there is a little bit of awareness in terms of those who make 300000 kroner, because it is not particularly rough for wages to be today either. But I appreciate the commitment to the poverty problem. Neither is it that all social cuts are necessarily wrong. I hear Andersen says that you take one hand and give with the other. But there is something about targeting – rather than spreading and thinning to the many.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1311	Olav Gunnar Ballo has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1314	When I take the floor, it is in agreement with what the Minister of Health came up with when it was Aker Hospital. We also heard that the Workers' Party warned about the consequences of the closure of a well-functioning department that has been an alternative offer for many birthers. Of course, it is important, and there can be no doubt about it either, that the coating in this department is large enough to ensure that it should have been maintained and continued professionally. But I'm surprised, especially about the Workers' Party, which at an earlier time has been quite clear and argued for the same thing as SV does, that these decisions must be taken into the Storting, and then it should be up to Stortingen to determine the structure before the changes happen. I see that Helgeland Arbeiderblad on 21 November – not many days ago – had a notice that Stoltenberg, according to Helgeland Arbeiderblad, had made ‘it is clear that health regions cannot act on their own merits. He said that he perceives what is now happening in some places in the country as major changes – and that therefore has to be presented to the Storting before one can go further”. Then I register to my great surprise that the Workers' Party today does not provide support for the same when it comes to proposals to get to that very thing by adopting a national health plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1326	In the case of SV's tax profile, everyone who has income less than NOK 350 000 receives tax relief with it. Anyone who earns it gets a tax increase. We actually think that that's a fair profile, because then we're close to those who have bad advice. The right profile has been on the opposite side, that you give tax relief, and most of all to those who have the most. How to get it to be the most needy is completely incomprehensible to SV. Yes, we have a commitment to this, because we think it's important -- it's ideologically important, of course, but it's an obligation we have, which has power and influence in this country, to be part of and give a dignity in life to those who don't have incomes' seas and opportunities to care for this. An important part of this is the municipal economy, for many still have poor advice in Norway. We might never be able to take everything away. But then we have to make it so that it won't be impossible to have bad advice, and very difficult, especially for kids. Then it's important that the school is so good that you don't risk losing school because Mom and Dad can't afford computer facilities. It is very important that the municipality has such an economy that it can provide a leisure offer, a cultural offer that allows you to develop your seams if your mother and father have poor advice, an offer that makes you not have to give up your wallet for everything you need to do, which makes you feel outside in every context, and not get involved. This is very important, and here the government is failing, because it has thought it has been much more important to distribute these taxes. We deeply disagree with the government's priorities. I realize that in the back of my head there's something going on that if it rains on the priest, it's dripping on the clock. That's what you think, that when you divide that way, it kind of becomes more economic, and then some of this downgrades to the poorest. But it's not like that. If those who have the least are going to get enough for a decent life, the only way to get it is to show the political will to dry out to really distribute. That's what's going on. An area for which the Minister of Social Affairs is not responsible, but which is extremely important, is housing policy – it is home. There we also fail, because there are a lot of people in Norway who can't afford a real place to live and the security it is to be able to say to their kids when they go to bed in the evening, that one is sure that we're going to be able to live here. There we have a great job to do, everyone sitting on the Stortinget and any government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1335	Bent Höie has spoken twice, has asked for the word a third time and has withdrawn from the list of speakers. He is now again asking for the floor for the third time, and the President is still in doubt whether he should be given the floor. That note must become a driver's card!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1338	It's completely short. It was Karin Andersen's new posts in relation to the fight against poverty that provoked me. It is quite clear that there is a difference between the redistributive policies of the government parties and the SV. But one must be able to acknowledge that there has been a considerable effort in this area, that the Social Minister who sits in this government is the first post-war social minister to put forward a comprehensive plan to combat poverty. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]] Had SV's alternative budget
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1343	The president's been clubbing. Then you don't take a new bet and start with a new reasoning. Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has also asked for the word for the third time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1348	The Minister of Health would like to hear about the Central Party's hospital policy. But that means that he at the same time hassles many of those who are currently engaged throughout our country in relation to well-functioning local health services. It is a major challenge now to replace the regionally elected level that was previously up and provided the best possible hospital provision in their respective counties. However, it should not be the case that the magnificence, the Minister of Health and the Government seemed to be about abdicating in relation to still ensuring good and clear decisions and following up on the security and confidence of the individual population. I am concerned that the Minister of Health does not have any larger antennas than he has in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1353	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1373	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1129]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1381	Then Stortinget will vote in the matters listed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e1389	A total of 36 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5 and 17-19, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, 6–8 and 24–29, from Sigbjørn Molvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposals Nos. 9-14 and 30-34, by John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Progressive Party, 15,16, 35 and 36, by Mr Molvik, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 20, by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 21-23, from John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party The President will first address the minority voting proposals. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15, 16, 35 and 36, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e4919	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9–14 and 30–34 of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e6520	Proposals Nos. 6, 7 and 24–29, from the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, are addressed to voting. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘By 1 April 2004, the Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a supplementary social security scheme for persons who are under-inhabited in Norway to have full rights in the social security system.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to draw up an action plan for the construction of housing for the homeless in connection with the closure of the Project for the homeless, describing the scope, time limits and state involvement in the financing.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to contribute to the continuation of the Resoursal Health Station in Molde until an evaluation of the offer is available.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a comprehensive examination of the dental field and to submit proposals for dental reform in an appropriate manner during 2004.’;» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a national health plan which is completely revised every four years. This requires, inter alia, the amendment of the Health Enterprises Act to include the provision of a national health plan.The plan shall include a description of the overall structure of the specialist health service, including geographical resource allocation, coordination between the different units and between the specialist health service and the first line service. The plan shall also include the provision of rehabilitation services at all levels and an overview and objective of the provision of treatment, resources and needs for primary health services, as well as a comprehensive overview and plan of the human resources of health services. The draft plan shall be submitted to the Storting for final approval before its implementation.’;» Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up an overall plan for the future food supply and to present the Storting Plan as its own matter.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure the further operation of the maternity ward at Aker Hospital.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the Government to come back to the Stortinget on its own account to explain the consequences of different models of financing large investments in health enterprises, including the consequences of a model that fully finances large investments with government investment grants. In this context, the Stortinget must be invited to decide on the choice of the funding model. The majority requests the Government to present such a case to the Stortinget as soon as possible, at the latest in the context of the Revised National Budget for 2004.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e6575	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a degressive plan for the municipal abduction related to resource-intensive users who reduce this abstinence to SEK 600 000 in the course of 2 years.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e6594	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 21–23, from the Progress Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the medicinal products Actos and Avandia are refunded in accordance with Section 9 of the regulation.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The ruling asks the Government to reconsider the reimbursement of the medicinal products Plavix and Spiriva under Section 9 of the Blueprint Regulation in the context of the Revised National Budget for 2004’.» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘Chap. 2751 Medicinal products are converted into an estimate.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e6622	Proposal No. 20, from the Workers' Party, is taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the Health Business Act, etc. where it is statutory for regional health establishments to have a regional advisory body.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e6637	Proposals Nos. 1–5 and 17–19, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, are addressed to voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up an action plan for the relocation of young people with disabilities who wish to do so, from old-age and sick homes by the summer of 2004. This is promoted as a matter of its own for the Storting and shall also include proposals for measures on how to move out and how to prevent new ones from being moved in.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that funds are allocated to the organisation MOT so that it can continue its prevention and awareness-raising work aimed at children and young people.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government in the context of the Revised National Budget for 2004 to submit proposals for the extension of the pilot scheme for work and training trips to the whole country and at the same time to be made permanent.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the Storting with a thorough review of the whole scheme of subsidies to cars provided for in the law on popular security.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide support for the acquisition of digital hearing aids at a cost exceeding the established price limit when the need for such hearing aids is medically justified.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with an assessment of a collaborative project between Ullevål Hospital, BioNor and a country in Africa for clinical trials of vaccine/treatment against HIV.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess whether the allocation to Health West is correct in relation to the other undertakings.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to re-assess a larger State share of the investment costs for the construction of new Aarhus so that the current hospital project can be realised.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e6690	Then there will be a vote on all minority proposals, and we will move on to the vote on the motion for a resolution. We start with the frame range 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e8228	The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e8241	Then the Roman numerals outside of the frame range 15 will be added.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e8251	The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e8271	Here the whole committee is behind the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e8282	We're going to the 16th framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e10230	The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e10243	The Roman numerals outside the frame range are quoted above. The President will first vote on the V, VIII, IX and XI of the position, then on VI and VII and then on X.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e10271	The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e10295	The entire committee is behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e10312	The Labour Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e10315	The Progress Party will vote in favour of this proposal, now that our own has fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e10322	The party of progress will also be involved. Maybe it'll also want the Center Party? - It's nodding. What about SV, are they still going to be against?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e10329	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e10336	All right, everybody's in.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e10347	As regards the proposal for Decision XII, Asmund Kristoffersen has requested that this proposal be transformed into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government assess the right of referral of opticians to the public.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion of censure – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e10361	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 2 December 2003: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up a treatment guarantee whereby children and young people with child protection measures are given a legal right to treatment for drug use and psychiatry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e10376	Then we should have voted over what was going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-10.ana.ud2508e10387	There is no record.
