ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e28	When proposals to stop the development of Snow White are put forward by the Stortingen representatives Halvorsen, Djupedal and Langeland, it must be due to the desire to have a rematch after the Stortingen, by a large majority, gave green light to Snow White according to Innst. S. No 100 for 2001-2002. I think everyone in this room is really concerned about the cost excesses that are already revealed by Statoil's management in terms of Snow White expansion. It is important that builders and licensees now follow the project extra closely in order to avoid further negative surprises. Statoil has informed the Ministry of Oil and Energy that if the project is now stopped, it will amount to approximately NOK 12 billion in respect of commitments in contracts already concluded. Furthermore, Statoil's estimates to the Council of State indicate that the project remains socially viable. After the cost increase, the present value before tax will be approximately NOK 6.5 billion. In my opinion, it is not difficult to choose between 6.5 billion plus and 12 billion minus. On this basis, the majority of the Committee therefore considers that there is no basis for promoting a case for the Storting, which highlights all aspects of the Snow White Development, with a view to enabling Stortinget to assess different scenarios for the further development of Snow White. The majority therefore propose that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e41	When a project is exceeded by 5.8 billion kroner already in the start-up phase, I think it is necessary to stop and think about it. $5.8 billion corresponds to about two opera buildings, at least with today's calculations, or one laptop for each of the 600,000 students in the Norwegian Elementary School. So these are significant amounts we're talking about in excess at an early stage of the project. It may be perceived as a rematch, but it can also be perceived as if you want to stop to see if a project is economically justified. As Stortinget is aware, SV was in principle opposed to an expansion of Snow White etc. due to uncertainty relating to the environment, uncertainty associated with fishing resources and uncertainty relating to the impact assessments that the Government has said should come. When one gets as much excess as here, of course, SV is the first party to stop, just as we have done in previous issues that the Storting has been dealing with, when the amounts have become huge, as they can be in this sector. So at first we take up a proposal that is not accepted because the majority of people want to run on without thinking that there may be new cost exceedances. But we want to take a break to make sure you don't continue with these exceedances. This proposal falls, and SV loses that round. We lost the fight for Snow White when there was a glimmer of consistency and environmental considerations, and we also lose now when it comes to stopping up in relation to excesses. Then we start the fight for the mission to go to the Norwegian industry. It's straight and reasonable. But what happens? We know that trade unionists, the Workers' Party and others have been involved in Statoil's use of the Norwegian supplier industry, the Norwegian shipyard industry. Unfortunately, as the majority have said, Statoil simply has to operate cost-effectively – it is a listed company that is supposed to hold its shareholders – a contractor in Spain instead of the Norwegian shipbuilding industry. Of course, it's a pity. But that means that the majority of the population has given up the governance instruments they used to have through their policies, when this company was 100 pst. Stately. So one could say, as someone says, that one didn't use the right to control when it was 100 pst. Stately. No, that's right, one didn't, not many times at all, but the possibility was there. So once you have an AS-certified company, you have reduced your ability to run a mission. Of course, it regrets SV, and we remind you that the Center Party and SV went against privatisation. In order for one to try anyway, we therefore propose the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote measures to ensure that tasks related to the development of the Norwegian base can be carried out by the Norwegian shipyard industry.’ This has been the case in the majority of cases before, particularly with regard to the tax regimes and subsidy regimes which one might have to have in the EU. But we believe it is also important in this matter to state that one must give priority to national industry in the development of Norwegian base. I include the two suggestions from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e61	Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e64	The snow-white extension was adopted by Stortinget on 7 March 2002. I informed Stortinget on 17 December 2002 about the cost increase of SEK 5.8 billion. The project remains socially viable. Statoil and the other copyright holders in Snow White have informed that they wish to continue the project. A stop in the project will put huge costs on companies and society. Statoil states that if the project is stopped now, there will be a cost of approximately NOK 12 billion in commitments in contracts already concluded. In addition, the rightholders have already invested about NOK 2.2 billion in the project. It is clearly unreasonable to stop the project at that time. I have asked the operator to inform the department immediately if there is significant new information about Snow White LNG. In that case, the size will be properly oriented. When the SV representative wants to stop the Snow White Development with immediate effect, they also seem to completely ignore that we have actually granted permission to deploy Snow White. The requirements for the conversion of such an administrative decision are strict. Withdrawal of the permission to extend Snow White would be a very serious operation and therefore is not at all relevant. I am therefore pleased that the majority proposes to reject the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e75	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e78	I agree with the fact that the Council of State has acted in an orderly manner and has informed the Council of the excesses which have existed. At the same time, I would say that even if approval for expansion has been granted, the State is so much of this project that if the State considers it necessary to intervene in relation to the excesses that have occurred, possibly new ones, it is clear that then, as a majority shareholder in Statoil, and as a large owner in the licence, it must look at the costs of continuing. Now it's time for the big crowd and the government to move on. SV has raised this as a problem and indicates that when there is as much money as this is about, a person must think carefully before moving on. The majority of the population chooses something else. However, the question to the Council of State is related to the assignment of the Norwegian shipyard industry. As the Council of State knows, SV has an oil and gas policy other than the policy that has largely been pursued by the majority of the population. We have a more long-term policy, at a lower pace. The question is particularly related to Statoil. The fact that Statoil was privatized by a large majority means that a person made it clear that the Stortinget said that it had the right to control that one had before the company was privatized? And is it impossible for Stortinget to intervene later in relation to Statoil, for example. when Statoil should select the clients, precisely because of the privatisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e87	The representative of Langeland said that SV has raised it as a problem that we have already received a significant exceedance of the Snow White contract. SV has not only raised a problem, but they have actually today in Stortinget also proposed to stop the project. It's something completely different. I believe the whole Stortinget, and the Council of State, including, has significant concerns about the cost framework for the Snow White project. I've briefed Stortinget about that just before Christmas last year. And I have said that I will follow this contract very carefully. I have relatively frequent contact with Statoil about this, and I have promised Stortinget that I will come back, if necessary, if it turns out that there will be further problems in relation to the cost follow-up. If that would then prove to be the basis for making other decisions, I will, of course, submit such proposals to the Stortinget. There's no reason to do that today. This is an administrative decision that costs a lot if someone today decided to stop this project, as I explained in my first post. With regard to the second part of this case, I am somewhat uncertain whether this is within the scope of the proposal, or whether there is a completely different debate, namely on the competitiveness of the Norwegian shipbuilding industry and the possibilities for obtaining international contracts. But it is promoted as a proposal. My comment about this is that we from the Government are doing everything we can to maintain a competitive and cost-effective petro-arithmic environment, i.e. those that supply the oil industry with the necessary installations and devices. We have, and it is the government's aim that we too should have for the future. However, it is clear that there are significant challenges to winning contracts in an international competitive environment. And that's what this is about, not that Statoil is reorganized as an AS.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e94	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e97	I will just make a few brief comments on this matter. I think it has been well-lit by the representative of Onarheim and the Minister of Energy. Then we also got the other side illuminated by the representative Langeland. This article will become a mix of a short comment and a line. It was very serious to hear the oil and energy minister's briefing on 17 December on the major exceedances of the Snow White project, which he also mentioned here. Statoil had then calculated that the cost increase was SEK 5.8 billion, and most of this applied to the land site, which should have been relatively easy to calculate in advance. We've also read that the companies associated with the Snow White Development say they wouldn't have started the project if they knew about these huge cost increases. I take even a little bit more from that briefing, because then the Council of State Steensnæs pointed out that the cost development was worrying and that the situation that had arisen was very unfortunate. To this extent, he has underlined that today. He then stressed, as now, that he would follow the project carefully and that the Storting should be informed about this. Today we were told that the project would cost NOK 12 billion, if it was stopped now. The center part chooses to pass this on. Suffering if it's a familiar matter that we were against the Snow White expansion in our time, we relate to the realities that are now. But we assume that the Ministry of Oil and Energy is closely monitoring the development of the cost of the project in the future. A thorough cost control must be carried out in relation to the decisions taken and the size must be properly informed if there are significant changes in cost estimates compared to those already presented. The centre party will reserve the possibility of returning at a later stage to assess whether there is a need for an overall evaluation of the Snow White Development. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister of Energy how much is needed before he comes back to Stortinget and talks about the cost development.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e112	The representative of Onarheim has now explained the majority's views in an excellent way, and it also covers what the Labour Party believes in this matter. But let me just add a few words. We are very serious about the exceedances that have already occurred on Snow White. They have to be taken seriously. But that doesn't mean we want to stop the Snow White expansion, as SV suggests. That SV suggests it is nothing new, since they have voted against the whole development. As regards the issue of Norwegian shipbuilding linked to Snow White, which is not, in itself, a direct issue in this Document No. The 8-proposal, so let me just say that the Workers' Party believes it was a very bad thing that the assignment went to the Dragados. It is clear that one of the arguments for getting Snow White in place was to try to ensure predictability for the Norwegian industry. It only illustrates the current situation of large parts of the Norwegian supplier industry. This means that the decision that the Stortinget made right before Christmas, where the Government was ordered to go through the competitive situation of the Norwegian shipyard industry, is urgent. If the price difference between Norwegian yards and in this case a Spanish yard is actually 40 to 50 pst, the situation is very serious. We can't sit still and watch that work after work disappears out of the country. That means it has to be acted on, and it has to be acted on quickly. I just want to stress how serious this is, and we assume that the Government will come back to the Storting with proposals that will enable us to act. It must happen very quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e122	The representative Enger asked: what does it take before the Council of State returns to the Storting and orientates? I think that if I'm going to get out of ordinary processes, like that. a government budget or a revised national budget must be of such a gravity that it is assessed in such a way that the Storting should be immediately informed. But I do not overlook the fact that under any circumstances I will be able to inform the Storting about the progress of the project, for example. in the context of a national budget or a revised national budget, since this matter has been so strongly focused. For the time being, there is no information that there would be further cost increases today. There is no such information. The project continues, and so far it seems that further progress is satisfactory. Let me add to this with the competitive Norwegian supplier industry saying that the Government is concerned that we have a Norwegian industry that has competitive power also internationally, but then under fair international competition rules. The government has said that it wants to go for a while to see if the case is also with the contracts that have been a lot of attention around – the contract with the Dragonos yard, in the case of Kristin Riser, and in the case of the Snow White contract. We have submitted a tight budget for this year. It has contributed to lower interest rates, we've already seen that, and we see that a moderate wage settlement will also go in the same direction. It has been interesting to note that the head of the Workers' Party and the parliamentary leader have expressed to the press that neither the Workers' Party would be able to instruct Statoil in this matter. It's important to get underlined. We agree that competition rules should be fair and equivalent, and that both authorities and social partners contribute to strengthening competitiveness in Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e129	I just want to make it clear briefly that there is no one from the Workers' Party who has taken the order to instruct Statoil in this matter. But we have expressed great concern that what happened in connection with Snow White happened, and for what has also happened elsewhere. We should do what we can to avoid it in the future, so that the Norwegian supplier industry is also competitive. But so, none of us have taken the word "instruction" in our mouth.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e134	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2096]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e150	The treatment of this matter continues to be subject to a concession to regulate the Byglandsfjord and some other water in the Otra watercourse, as well as to a concession for further transfers and construction of Skarg power plants. This will increase by 180 GWh. The regulation will result in an increase in winter production of 211 GWh. Winter this year has shown that there is the right priority, and this production will come well with when consumption is greatest. The committee, and perhaps especially I as a case spokesman, has received very interesting additional information through both briefing and hearing, via telephone conversations, own meetings, letters and e-mails. The relevant municipalities have provided information which is considered by the Committee, with ambiguous arguments and illustrative documentation. The problems resulting from the regulation have been different in weight depending on who has spoken out. A common problem has arisen in the contacts with us: basic owners, outdoor and environmental organisations, tourism industries, the municipalities concerned and the regulator all point to the need to treat the increasing and havocing emergence of creepy glands in particular. The majority in the committee, all unrecognized SV, indicates that the creepy part of the watercourse is a big and unresolved problem. The Hearing Officers have also focused on acidification in Lower Otra. The municipalities concerned have requested that the problem of acidification be given special attention by the regulator, so that measures can be taken to improve the living conditions of the local salmon strain. The majority of the committee has this importance. As special measures are needed to prevent both creeping and acidification in the watercourse, the majority suggest increasing the provision of an own fund by 10 million. NOK so that the provision is set at 20 million. kr. This increase in the fund means that there is room for both research and practical action to address the special problems. There has been a lot of focus on the nutrition fund. The Department suggests that 39 million will be given. funds in addition to concession fees, and the Committee endorses this recommendation. The distribution for municipalities will be as follows: Municipal municipality will receive NOK 15 600 000, Valle municipality 5 million. NOK 15 250 000, Evje and Hornnes Municipality NOK 3150 000. As noted in the comments, the majority of the members of the Committee have opted for an unusually large allocation of funds, and this will benefit all the municipalities in question. The seat valley is too beautiful to allow the emergence of reptiles to continue and have such a dominant and dazzling role as is the case today. The majority in the Committee have noted the problems associated with the operation and regulation of the watercourse. It is positive that until now, the Otteraa User Services Association has been present to mitigate the consequences of these problems. In dealing with the cases, it has been suggested that the regularist will continue to be accommodating and implementing remedial measures as far as it is possible to carry out rafting in the watercourse and tourist traffic on the Byglandsfjord. SV has suggestions on the matter, and they want to do the right thing. On behalf of the other parties, I would like to recommend the suspension of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e176	I can agree with what the rapporteur has said. I think the Committee on Energy and the Environment has been able to find a good solution to a matter that has many difficult balances in it. I think it is important to bear in mind that the application concerns the maintenance of existing warehouses and handling regulations, with the exception of Byglandsfjorden. The regulation will change the flow of water so that it gets a little less in the summer and increases in the winter. The two transfers requested have been widely discussed. Many in Upper Seatsdal believe that they have contributed enough to the community and that they still have to fight to keep the income they think they are legitimately entitled to. Therefore, additional dry streams and reduced water flow are not popular. As I have seen the debate, however, the main objection to development has been this creepy problem. Whether further expansion and transfer will exacerbate the creeping problem below Valle is not to be expected. I'm aware that it's per. Today there is no adequate solution, but that power development is a cause, there is no doubt. I am very pleased that 20 million have now been allocated. to work to reduce the cryogenic problem in the Otra watercourse. As I said, this is very good. As far as the nutrition fund is concerned, I could have wished that the distribution had been somewhat better for Bygland. But I see that it has to be broken down by a certain key in order for it to be fair to other concessions. It is also positive that the Committee has so high on both natural horsepower and concession fees. In my opinion, this is a good case for municipalities and for society. Those who may be somewhat dissatisfied are the builders, but I think it's a very good thing for them too.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e193	In this case too, SV has a slightly different opinion than the majority in the Committee. In our opinion, we see here an example of a piecewise and shared treatment of a regulated watercourse, which will not allow us to get a comprehensive overview of the consequences of the different regulations for the watercourse. The Otra watercourse includes several concessions that expire at different times, making overall action difficult in relation to the regulation of the watercourse. Examination of the proposal for a new regulatory concession for Byglandsfjorden etc. However, in the Otra watercourse and permission for various transfers to Broke power plants and the construction of Skarg power plants could be an opportunity to take a more comprehensive approach on the matter. The main reason why we believe that such an overall review is correct is the problems of re-growth because of the creeps that you have in Otra. Here I have to say that when the case rapporteur makes it as if SV is not concerned with the creepy, this is not the case. On the contrary, we believe that this environmental problem can be eliminated or reduced by adding more floodwaters down the watercourse. However, the proposal we have to deal with today will reinforce the problems of creep in Otra. That's the problem. The NIVA study, which is partly reflected in the proposition, concludes that power generation is the dominant cause of the cryogenic problems. An overall assessment of the watercourse would also be in line with the advice of the County Council in West Agder and DN on how to deal with this matter. Furthermore, in SV we are concerned about the economic consequences for the Iveland and Steinsfoss power plants further down into the river as a result of the proposed regulatory concession for Byglandsfjorden. We do not think that the answers we received in the open hearing were particularly reassuring, as the builder was most concerned about minimizing this question. A comprehensive assessment would have revealed this – and clarified any claims. On this basis, I would like to address the proposal for returning the case, which SV has promoted, and which is included in the setting. Having said that, in the light of the Committee's position, we are aware that this proposal is unlikely to reach the necessary majority. I will therefore be allowed to signal subsidiary support for I and III in the cancellation. Because of the amount allocated to studies and measures to combat budgeting and acidification in the Otra watercourse, the amount is increased to 20 million. kr, we can subsidiaryly vote in favour of continued regulation of Byglandsfjorden. As regards Otra Kraft and Otteraaen’s Brukseier Association’s application for new transfers to Brokke North and South and the construction of Skarg Power Plant, we would point out that Setesdal is already heavily burdened with hydropower expansion and that this new extension involves the drying of Bjørnå and Bestelandså. This application also violates the overall plan, where any power build-up is prescribed to a significantly smaller extent. As a result, SV will vote against II in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e212	Ingvild Vaggen Malvik has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e215	The proposition of the Otra watercourse is really dealing with two issues. One case concerns the renewal of regulatory concessions, without any new intervention being requested. The second case concerns further transfers in the watercourse, with the construction of Skarg power plants. I am pleased that the majority of the committee sees the value of the Otteraa Consumers' Association's access to continued regulation of the watercourse. I am also pleased that the majority supports the Government's proposal for further transfers and construction of Skarg power plants. These new transfers will increase power generation by about 170 GWh. Such an increase would be a positive contribution to the country’s power recovery. I would also like to mention that this additional development is an excellent example of the need to make better use of existing hydropower structures, as the Sem Declaration states. I cannot see that it has anything in common – as the minority from SV asks – that the Government makes an overall assessment of the entire Otra watercourse before the two specific cases are dealt with. Many years have passed since the regulatory concessions expired, and it is time that there was a clarification in view of the further operation of the watercourse. Both the regulator, the municipalities and the people most affected by the regulations are entitled to do so. The conditions to be determined now may be reviewed at the same time as the 1974 concession on further regulation of the watercourse expires. This will allow an overall assessment of the watercourse in 20 years. Within that time, we will have gained good experience in the measures to address the cryogenic problems that are now being addressed. With regard to the new transfers, the municipalities requested that these be dealt with at the same time as the renewal case. I would like to mention that the additional transfers in isolation did not have to be submitted to Stortinget. I record that the committee – like the Government – has seen very seriously the major and unresolved problem of the emergence of creepy glands in the watercourse. The Committee points out that owners of land, outdoor and environmental organisations, the tourism industry, the municipalities and the regulator have all pointed out that this is a particular and major problem in the Otra watercourse. For this reason, and having regard to the acidification situation in the watercourse, the Committee is in favour of increasing from 10 million the Fund proposed by the Government for the control of reptiles. NOK 20 million. kr. In this respect, I have noticed the majority's clarification that the creeping problem is so special for this watercourse that such a requirement for the regulator must not constitute a precedent for subsequent concession cases. Otherwise, I note with satisfaction that the majority of the committee is fully committed to the proposition. Finally, I would like to stress that the municipalities along the Otra watercourse have made their natural resources available for power generation for almost a hundred years. This power generation has given the power plant owners great economic benefits for many years. The current economic compensation conditions are linked to future regulation and must be seen in the context of the value-added of the regulators in the future. The Otteraa Brugeseirier Association has recently attributed to the Ministry and stated that the costs of obtaining a concession are so high that the economic benefits can be lost. The regulatory body will therefore consider rejecting the renewal of the concession. It is important to ensure that the financial compensation established is not disproportionate to the value of use that the regulated energy can charge to the regulated energy. I therefore hope that the Otteraa Consumer Association accepts the concession, with the terms that the Stortinget now lays down.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e236	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e239	It is possible that I have a bit of a hard time for it. The Council of State says that it will be possible to make an overall assessment of the watercourse in 20 years' time, and it signals a wish to do so, but I do not fully understand why it is so difficult to do this job at this time. The matter that we have on the table now gives us just an opportunity to make a new, comprehensive assessment of the entire Otra watercourse as a whole. There's a problem with watercourse regulation, which has consequences for the entire watercourse, and perhaps especially for the lower areas, that you have a piecewise and divided treatment of the concessions. In order to make such major changes as in particular the construction of Small Power Plants and the new transmissions, an overall assessment of the impact of all the different regulations on the cryptographic problem in Otra should have been carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e246	I don't think it's Ingvild Vaggen Malvik who has a hard time for it, as she said, but that it's simply a disagreement about when it's most appropriate to make such an overall review, as I suggested. I think, among other things, that the measures now being taken to combat the creeping of this watercourse will be one of many important inputs to such an overall review. The impact of the measures now being implemented could then be assessed after a few years. I showed in my post that there have been many years since the regulatory concessions went out, and that both the municipalities, the regulator and others involved in this have a reasonable requirement for clarification. That's the explanation Stortinget wants to give today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e253	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2097]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e269	In accordance with the Constitutional Act § 75 k, the Riksrevisionen presented to the Stortinget annotations containing replies and proposals for the dissociation of the Norwegian government accounts and the accounts for the administration of Svalbard together with extracts of the accounts for 2001. The National Audit Office has taken up a total of 22 cases, of which 16 are registered and six are for information. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Church, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Transport have been the best in the class. There are no issues under these. Last year, during the debate, I said that the state seemed to be run like a bad sausage shed, but that it was unfair to the country's sausage dwellers. With the same reservation, it must be allowed to say that the government of the state for the financial year 2001 has advanced somewhat, but that it is still a good deal to say until we can call it a good gourmet kitchen. However, an overall committee has noted that the National Audit Office welcomes the fact that the Ministry of Finance has implemented a number of training measures to improve the financial function of the State and that there seems to have been significant improvements throughout the year compared to the financial year 2000. Several departments that did not get their accounts approved then have now received them. It's satisfying. Although the national accounts and the traditional accounts of the National Audit Office may appear politically less potent than the sometimes more politicized debate one may have in relation to some specific administrative audits, and also in relation to the next case, Document No. 3:2 on the administration of companies and banks by the Council of State, there should be no emphasis on the importance of focusing on this work. Although there is not always a heated debate here in the main hall, the improvements that the Riksrevision points to show that Document No. 1 and the accounting audit must not play a minor role in the work of the National Audit Office in the future. Despite the fact that the National Audit Office, as mentioned above, points to a number of improvements, an overall committee is not particularly pleased that State Building still does not have sufficient procedures for its acquisition activities. This has been in common with the Ministry of Oil and Energy. The lack of tender protocols and evidence relating to acquisitions was not precisely overlooked by the Riksrevision and the Stortinge neither last year nor before, and has proved to be a continuing problem which the Committee assumes that the departments concerned not only receive four attention but also provide the necessary corrections. The Committee will closely monitor the notified review of State Building by the Ministry. The introduction of new computer systems in municipalities, counties and the state is a separate chapter. UDI’s new computer system for the treatment of foreign affairs and refugees was provided too late, costed twice as much as foreseen, and incurred additional operating costs for the old system during the transitional period of one and a half years due to resuscitation with delivery. Economic management, quality control and control of propulsion were exhausted, and the Committee is pleased that the Ministry has now established a closer follow-up to the project in order to remedy the fact that corrective actions did not take place in due course before the delay and the additional costs were a fact. Under the Ministry of Finance, the Committee has noted that the Ministry has undertaken a considerable effort to remedy the negative effects of the introduction of a new VAT management system and that the Tax Directorate’s accounts for the tax bill could not be accepted. The Committee, like the National Audit Office, awaits the agreed reporting requirements of the Ministry and the Directorate-General for Taxation and assumes that the situation will be corrected. The country should preferably keep order in its own house if the tax morals of people are to be expected to increase most. An overall committee also uses the opportunity to clarify that it should not be a practice for the defence to grant persons take-off incentives at one moment in order to then hire the same people at the other moment. It is probably nice enough for those concerned to receive the final package and the compensation for the activities of consultants at the same time, but it does not help to strengthen the reputation of the defence and the confidence that the defence has a notable capacity for long-term planning. An overall committee is further concerned that NORAD spent disproportionately long time putting in place certain aspects of cooperation with voluntary organisations and underlines the importance of clear guidelines and procedures here. The Committee also has critical comments, but with somewhat different wording, without real material differences, as I see it, between a majority and a minority of the accounts of the Social Security Agency. For the Right Party and for the Christian People's Party, we are strongly critical of what emerges from the Riksaudition on faulty payments and little effective collection of outstanding claims. This clearly demonstrates the need for regulatory simplification and the conversion of forms of work. With regard to any further comments on the majority's comments on the Social Security Act, I leave it to the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e295	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2097]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e311	Kjell Engebretsen, the secretary of the committee, gets the floor, so we'll keep this under control.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e314	Yes, we have to keep this under control, because the rapporteur on the matter, Jørgen Kosmo, is busy with other tasks here in the Chamber. The National Audit Office has carried out checks on the government's management of the state's interests in companies, banks, etc. of 2001. The control has been extensive. These are 30 limited liability companies in which the State is the sole owner, 33 limited liability companies in which the State is a significant owner, six state enterprises, five regional health companies and eight activities governed by separate law, in addition to 26 student partnerships. The purpose of this verification is to confirm whether the State Councils in question exercise their role of managing the interests of the State in accordance with the assumptions of the Storting and in accordance with the different decisions of the Storting. The National Audit Office's report is essentially geared towards economic conditions and it is significantly in line with the instructions given by the Storting for such control. However, the Committee points out that, through its governance signals, the Government Council has respected the Storting's intentions and assumptions of a non-economic nature, not reflected in the report. The Committee refers to the position of the Frøiland Committee – if I am allowed to quote what is there: ‘In many areas, however, companies also have important tasks related to wider societal interests, sectoral policies, etc. Such tasks may be assigned on the basis of the management of natural resources or the availability of important common resources such as infrastructure and good service provision; [[e.g. in the transport and cultural sectors]] There are structural changes in today's activities in society, changes in the governance of enterprises, etc. However, with regard to the Committee's views on this matter, the decision of the Frøiland Committee is again referred to, stressing that 'the exemption of State activities must not significantly weaken the control of the Grand Duchy and the Riksrevision'. Although new bodies are set up outside the ordinary administration system, this does not reduce the importance of performing important societal tasks. The Committee notes that there will be less disagreements in the various areas of financial regulation, general meetings, etc., and where there have been major or minor, often minor, irregularities, but there is no need to address them further here. However, an overall committee is behind the following – and again a quote from the vote, if the president permits it: ‘The Committee would stress that other tasks assigned to the different companies by the Storting should also be assessed as part of the company control process and would ask the Riksrevision to assess how best to do so.’ I think the committee very much agrees that this is the very essence of the Committee's work on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e339	It does not tend to be much debate related to this document, as there is a relatively broad and cross-political consensus on the importance of the work of the National Audit Office. This time it seems that there is a great deal of disagreement between the majority and the minority in the committee, and some will conclude that there is only the contradiction that will naturally prevail between government and opposition. However, in general, as the ‘assisting case rapporteur’ said, the differences between the majority and the minority should not be oversized and made larger than they are. However, it should be said that the rapporteur and the majority of the rapporteurs are relatively high on the subject of the use of language in the comments, especially in the case of formal errors and lack of guidelines under the Financial Regulation. Of course, the Right and Christian People's Party also agree that for the year 2001, where the Workers' Party crashed 80 pst. of time, a clear premise was that instructions under the Financial Regulation should be in place. But when new state councils last summer made it clear that they wanted to rectify the situation, it would be a pleasure if they had taken the extra seconds it would have taken to check more closely some of the things that are mentioned in the comments, especially when it is the prime minister who is rapporteur for the matter, and who has as his primary task to ensure the dignity of the Great Britain. Let me take a couple of examples of vocabulary that the rapporteur is good for, despite the direct call to take on the crime it would have been to check a couple of things more closely. As far as the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, the rapporteur and the majority ask that the Councils of State address matters «immediately». I have here a letter to the National Audit Office of 20 December 2002 – publicly available information. If the case rapporteur had taken a quick phone call or wrote a letter, they would have been told that this had already been done properly – it has been done in order today. This has made the Right and Christian People's Party explicitly aware of this, but it has not been found to be opportune to check whether the relationship is corrected. Instead, you choose a critical note for which there is no basis. I really think it's rather sad. Under the Ministry of Education and Research there are two other examples. The statutes of Norsk Synkrotronforskning AS were amended in the extraordinary general meeting on 8 November 2002 in respect of § 9.3 on the conditions of amendment of the statutes and § 9.1 on who convenes the general meeting and brought them in accordance with the share law in the relevant paragraphs. The facts raised by the Riksrevision have thus been put in order as part of the follow-up by the Ministry to the comments in connection with the Riksrevision’s company control for the 2001 audit year. The rapporteur and the majority could easily find out if it had been taken. As regards Slemdalsvejen 7, the company’s statutes were amended in the ordinary general meeting on 27 June 2002, in line with the comments of the Riksrevision, which is also evident in technical summaries. In the case of procedures for the transmission of protocols, this is reinforced by the Ministry and is expected to be followed by the University of Oslo. The capital of the tying fund, including the value of the fund's shares, has been entered in the country's capital accounts for 2001. Thus, the State’s shares in Slemdalsvejen 7 AS are not included in the country’s capital accounts, but, for accounting reasons, the shares were not included in the stock records in Table 3.10 and the corresponding capital account in St.melding. No 3 for 2001–2002. In the country's capital account for 2002, the Ministry has shared the Tøenfonds capital account so that the shares held by the Fund for the purposes of the University are included in the stock statement in Table 3.10 and the related capital account under the Ministry of Education and Research. It could therefore be good to know what aspects the rapporteur and the opposition are now asking the Ministry of Education and Research to fix ‘immediately’. That's how I could keep going. All the parties to the Control and Constitutional Committee seem to share the principle of the formality of the matter. When we from the Right and the Christian People's Party have opted for a part of the majority's comments with demands for immediate correction, it is simply because in several cases we are aware that this has already been corrected, and we are of the opinion that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee should also be concerned with the formal nature of its own activities. As the first travel boy in the country's parliament, you look with light and light for potential role models in the hallways. A presidential candidate got his daydream crushed, as it was then. I will not, when the President-in-Office is sitting so close, say that I have been crushed by the remark that stands here, but it has at least got some powerful cracks.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e371	The aim of such a control as the Riksrevision present this time is to provide the Storting with an overview of the management of the state ownership of enterprises where the state is the sole owner or the owner of an enterprise. Ownership of an enterprise can be exercised both passively and actively. In this regard, our task as a control body must be to ensure that the necessary regulations are in place and that they are followed. The difference between being in opposition and being in position in such cases is often in the level of concern. One can often get the impression that from parts of the opposition it is up to us to express the greatest possible concern. Let me give you one example: the representative Dahl, who is under the Ministry of Agriculture, but that is actually a very good example. There are oppositions: ‘These members will underline the ministry’s obligation to provide such guidance and assume that the situation is rectified without delay.’ Letter to the National Audit Office of 20 December 2002 states that such guidelines are already in place. These are public documents that are available, but if one had examined this, one did not need to have been so concerned. An aspect the Committee has also previously found reason to comment on is the use of oral agreements. Chapter 4.2 shows that legal assistance has been obtained through this type of simplified agreement. This means a collective committee is critical, and the committee points out that consulting and counseling are to be agreed in writing. I have noticed the Minister of Industry's restrictive attitude that members of the board should have paid duties for the business in which he or she is a member of the board. This is very important. Stability is an area in which both the National Audit Office and this Committee must be very alert in the future. Of course, a detailed legislation will try to steer away from the pits in this area. But finally, the ethical requirements of the individual are set to itself, which is decisive. In summary, it appears that all parties to the Control and Constitutional Committee share the view that it should be formally in order. When, in some cases, the government party has chosen to leave the plural comments where a "immediate" correction is required, this must be seen in the light of the fact that what has been mentioned is already in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e391	The annual report of the National Audit Office on the control of State interests is always accompanied by a great deal of interest and a certain fear – perhaps – of the departments managing the interests. After all, the Ministry of Economic Affairs is increasingly a department which manages large ownership on behalf of the State. It is my clear impression, which has also been referred to by a few of those who have spoken in the past, that some of the references from the National Audit Office have been corrected before the opinion of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has been expressed. Nothing is so far better than that. The Committee takes up one important issue in its general observations. It is whether government councils have followed up the Storting's intentions of a non-economic nature through governance signals. The Committee asks the Riksrevision to consider best ways of doing so. It's an important question and a very complicated question. Control signals can be so numerous and definitely pull in different directions. I believe that the precondition should be that the management of our companies should be through clear decisions, decisions which are passed on to the company in question by taking them in the right places. This means, in general terms, at the meeting or, where appropriate, by letter from the department to the company by means of an allocation of funds. The Riksrevision also has a clear basis for its control. The control by the Grand Duchy and the National Audit Office of the waiver of State activities is also a central issue that the Committee addresses, and I would like to mention that, among other things, this. will be included as a natural and important part of the work of the newly reduced Committee of Governors. As regards the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade's field of action, the Committee has raised the involvement of a lawyer in the sale of the State's shares in the Medisinal Pot. I guess that's the point in the whole setting where the committee expresses the strongest criticism. It says: ‘The Committee is strongly critical of the blending of roles in which the chairperson has also been the company’s lawyer, which has taken place. The Committee would point out that the members of the board of directors of companies or their associated activities should not carry out consular posts or any other specific fee on behalf of the company in which they are members of the board of directors.’;» It's a criticism that's strong, and I fully share. In the case of Norwegian Medical Pot ASA, the sale of State shares in that connection and the involvement of the board of directors in addition to being the Chairperson, also as legal adviser, there was something that took place before the undersigned joined. It will be widely known that I have addressed the whole problem of stability in relation to sitting in the handlebars. I have, as Stortinget also knows, carried out instant replacements in some controllers when I have found the situation unsatisfactory in relation to this. In my opinion, as a general rule, it should be sought that not only those who have a job, but also those who have a job, or, for that matter, have been employed by the company over a five-year period, should not be elected to these boards. We are totally dependent on credibility in this area. I am pleased that this criticism is so clear and will be a useful guiding signal in the further work. I am also pleased that the committee shares that view.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e411	It is enough that the Government constantly improves, adjusts and arranges in what the Riksaudition makes of critical remarks – of course. Then there may be a mismatch between when the Committee for its part has dealt with a matter, and when the Government has done the different things. If that is the case, the Government can, of course, ensure that it comes to the Committee's knowledge. I would like to quote something from the comments that, among other things, members from the Right have participated in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. The right-hand notes are terminated by: ‘These members have taken note of the statement by the Ministry in the letter of reply that it will ensure that elections are made at the next ordinary general meeting in accordance with the law and the statutes.’ It is not in place in itself, but you point out that you have been told that it should be corrected – and that will of course be done. As far as the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, there is a common comment from the Committee, which says: «The Committee finds it critical to conclude oral agreements on legal assistance and assumes that, in the future, the Department will ensure that all agreements on lawyer or other consultancy assistance are agreed in writing»; to which the Council of State has just referred. In another remark concerning the Ministry of Agriculture, the members of the Right and Christian People's Party say: ‘These members have noted that in their report of 11 June 2002, the Council of State informed that instructions/guidelines would be drawn up and transmitted to the National Audit Office.’ I don't doubt that will happen. Furthermore, the members of the Right and Christian People's Party, in their remarks concerning the Ministry of Industry and Trade, say: ‘These members have noted that the Minister of Industry shares this view and will follow it up in future legislative elections.’ And further, under the Ministry of Education and Research, the members of the Right and Christian People's Party say that they «have noted that the Council of State, in its report of 26 July 2002, has informed that the Ministry will ensure that the statutes of the company are corrected». So I think maybe a more reasonable form of debate in relation to this would be to say that we see something going on here, we comment and have comments in relation to the national audit report that exists – and there was no evidence available to us that this was in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e450	The ‘Assisting Advocate-General’ now had a review that might have prepared most of it. I think it is good that much of what the Riksrevision and the Committee have pointed out, has already been put in order, as the Council of State also stated. But in general: if it is so that there is much new in one case, we believe from the Workers' Party that the various state councils will stand to make the Committee aware of this in writing. I don't think that for a committee of inquiry it should be that some members of the committee say that different relationships have been settled. It must be written, and there must be a requirement for the state councils if there are new things that are important for the presentation of the case. I think that in the long run it might be an extra plus for the parties that are now in government responsibility, that the writing develops a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e457	I'll be brief. I am pleased that the representative is quoting all our remarks, which, of course, we think are excellent. I also note that the shortcomings in the remarks to the majority, which I asked for answers to, are not commented on. Something has been mentioned here about the government's disclosure obligation. Very well known are two months since some internal guidelines were developed, and it might be natural for the Committee, for example. had taken the trouble to ask if anything had happened – I did not know that the government would send every little note that was in a department, because I have been told that we get so much paper from before. This could easily be done by asking specific questions when the committee carried out its proceedings. We agree, of course, that writing is an absolute rule in terms of consulting assistance. I think we designed some notes in that direction last year, so we totally agree with that. Otherwise I refer to what the Minister of Industry has said earlier here today. Literacy in consulting is an absolute requirement, but you can't be so absolute that in a particular case you can't make an exception.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e470	I felt the need to draw up a brief statement at the end of the debate, because it has come out as much as it is possible just to make a brief comment. As far as the Committee's proceedings are concerned, there has also been a topic in this debate. We get to evaluate our way of working at a more appropriate time. I think one should take inwards that when information is provided in good time during a committee discussion before the vote is to be given that things are going well, and the majority just turn the deaf ear to, runs right on like a bulldozer and shows no interest in any new facts, one can't expect a different type of debate than the one we've been given here today. It is meant to be a small encouragement in relation to later matters. It may be possible to be more responsive when it is repeatedly informed that there is actually another factual basis available in a case. Otherwise, I just wanted to express great joy and satisfaction with the Minister of Industry's very clear message about this with a mix of roles in relation to involvement in companies. I think Norway has hardly had a Minister of Industry who has been so clear that roles should not be confused with directors, lawyers, etc. It has been made very clear by the Committee, and I am very pleased that the Minister of Industry has acknowledged this criticism by repeatedly pointing out what he has done and at what course he will follow in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e479	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2098]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e487	We then go to voting on the issues listed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e494	A total of 17 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 2-6, by Mr Korsberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 7, by Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 8-14, by Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of Socialist Left Party proposals No. 16 and 17, by Inger S. Enger, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 18 from Leif Frode Onarheim on behalf of the Workers' Party, Right and Christian People's Party The President noted that proposal No. 15, from the Socialist Left Party, is not taken up. Proposal No. 18, from the Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, are converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government keep a reasonable number of the planned 50 new concessions for the production of edible fish from salmon until further notice, pending the release of previous temporary salmon protection zones for the purposes of supplementing and completing the system of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords in 2004/2005, in order to allow the use of some of the new concessions in those areas.’;» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any substantive consideration. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16 and 17, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The system of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords is evaluated after 10 years in order to assess changes in the scheme both in terms of protection regimes and areas.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘For the national salmon fjord in Dalsfjorden, the outer limit is set at the border of the temporary protection zone, for Nordfjord at Kroknes-Mettenes, for Romsdalsfjorden at Vågstrand-Oksen, for Sunndalsfjorden at Fjöseid-Merraberget and for Halsafjorden at Aksnes-Bådvikneset.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e547	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8–14, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to draw up a compensation scheme and to enter into negotiations immediately with the facilities concerned for relocation. It shall be a premise that the facilities when re-established comply with the same technical requirements concerning, inter alia, the safety of escape to be applied to all new installations from 2004.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the value of the brand name ‘Norwegian Salmon’ and to assess the extent to which it will be devalued if Norway does not manage its wild salmon strains sustainably and to report back to the Storting appropriately.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a strategy for the development of a sustainable farming industry in Norway and to establish a system for the eco-labelling of Norwegian farmed fish, and to report back to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner within the 2004 budget.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government requests the implementation of requirements for the labelling of farmed fish to reduce escape and to contribute to the identification, prosecution and proof of environmental crime in relation to escape, disease spread and dumping, and to this effect with effect from 1 September 2003.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to introduce technical requirements for all farms from 1 January 2004 in order, inter alia, to make them safe for escape.’; Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish the fifty national salmon rivers and nine national salmon fjords as proposed by the Villaks Committee and also to include Eidfjordvassdraget and Årdalselva [[Hordaland]] [[Rogaland]] Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The temporary protection and action zone arrangement shall be continued in line with the precautionary principle and immediate action shall be taken to resolve the threats related to salmon and the evacuation of farmed salmon.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e595	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to establish a mechanism whereby, in the event of any adverse consequences of protective measures, financial compensation is granted to local communities, inter alia through conversion schemes and development projects for land-based farms.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e610	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 and proposals Nos. 4–6, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to wind up the temporary protection zones for salmonids by 2003.’; Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to postpone the introduction of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords and to give priority to the control of gyro and salmonids.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to take action on the wild species by 2006 in order to evaluate the measures.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government requests the following limit adjustments to be made by the introduction of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords: Svenner Basin: The limit is set at the same place as the south-frontier of the temporary protection zone, i.e. from Mejolen in Bamble. Sognefjorden: The limit of salmon fjord must be set after a straight line from Vangsnes in Vik municipality to Engesetter in Leikanger municipality.Dalsfjorden in Sogn and Fjordane: The boundary is withdrawn to the previous level, i.e. within a line drawn from Otterstein in Askvoll municipality to the east side of the Dalevassdrag in Fjaler municipality.Nordfjord: Move the border past Hyenfjorden, within a line between Anda and Lote in Gloppen municipality. Neck fjord: Lined with the current temporary protection zone, i.e. between Axiset and Flessa [[Botwijsnet]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e683	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks for a distinction between breeding concessions for rainbow trout and farmed salmon as regards their operation and establishment in temporary protection zones for salmonids and national salmon fjords.’ The Labour Party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e691	That must be wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e698	Yes, then the Labour Party does not support proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e710	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Council asks the Government, at the latest in the context of the Revised National Budget for 2003, to return to the Grand Duchy with the timetable and funding of the Directorate for Nature Management’s Action Plan against Gyro and the long-term follow-up to the control of the salmon parasite.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e1103	The Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e1134	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 13 February 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a comprehensive evaluation of the environmental information law after two years of operation of the complaint topic.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e1150	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Øyvind Vaksdal, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Central Party, submitted from the meeting of the Odelstinget on 13 February: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the law after two years of its operation.The following areas need to be assessed in particular:– Changes in the cost of renovation for consumers.– Business costs – especially in the districts.– Change in the transport pattern.’ The Socialist Left has announced their support for the proposal. The Labour Party has announced that they will give an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e1166	No, it is this proposal that we support.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e1173	Yes, then we have made that misunderstanding clear. That means that the Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e1188	Mr Inger S. Enger has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e1191	Without having the enormous consequences, I would ask that this proposal be transformed into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e1196	The proposal from the representative of the Grand Duchy of Ola T. Heggem, on behalf of the Central Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 13 February 2003 has been proposed as a transmission proposal. The proposal shall then read as follows: ‘The Government is advised to design the scheme in such a way that the costs of the control and supervision activities of the municipalities are fully borne by the owner of the waste.’ The President proposes that this proposal be submitted to the Government without a motion of censure – and welcomes it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e1208	During the debate Hallgeir H. Langeland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party: ‘The Government is asking the Government to review the Energy Act with a view to revising requirements for the filling of warehouses in hydroelectric power plants at different seasons, as well as other regulatory measures. ‘... Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced by the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e1233	During the debate, Mr Vaggen Malvik put forward the following proposals on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a national strategy for facilitating the deployment of two-way communications in the electricity grid across the country between electricity customers, electricity suppliers and network companies, and asks the Government to come back with proposals for funding in the case of network tariffs.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e1270	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward the following proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party: ‘The government is asking for support schemes to make people less dependent on electricity for heating, similar to those introduced in Sweden. Heating by means of waterborne heat, bioenergy, solar energy and heat pumps must qualify for support schemes when these replace heating by electricity or fossil heating.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e1315	The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for II.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e1329	During the debate Sylvia Brustad made the following proposals on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider amending, or granting a derogation from the NVE regulation, ‘Regulation on measurement, billing and concerted action in the event of power turnover and billing of network services’ so that monthly billing can be carried out on a permanent basis.’ Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced by the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e1355	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Sylvia Brustad, on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 2 by Mr Voksdal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3–5, from Ingvild Vaggen Malvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 3–5, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that requests for energy conversion support are treated on an ongoing basis and that the scheme must be long-term and predictable. The number of applications available at any time must not affect the duration of the proceedings, the amount of the aid or whether all actually receive aid.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to extend the House Bank’s support schemes for the installation of water and airborne heat so that at least as many house-bank-funded houses are built with flexible heating as elsewhere in the housing market.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Croners1825Reconversion of energy use and energy production70 Contributions to electricity saving in private households, granted by...300000000’» [[new]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e1426	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish cost-effective and technology-neutral criteria for the allocation of funds for electricity saving in private households’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e1441	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the removal of the charge on HFC gases.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e1536	During the debate, Mr H. Langeland put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Hallgeir H. Langeland – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e1541	Upon request from a part of the room SV wishes to make suggestion No. 2nd turn to a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e1546	Proposal No. 2, by the Socialist Left Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal and is worded as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government promote measures to ensure that tasks related to the development of Norwegian pedestal can be carried out by the Norwegian shipyard industry.’ The President proposes that this proposal be submitted to the Government without a vote of the facts – and considers it to be acceptable. There is such an alternative between proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, and the position of the Committee. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Snow white development is stopped with immediate effect’.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e1575	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e1582	The correct votes will then be 79 for the Committee's position and 14 for the proposal of the Socialist Left Party. Thus, the setting is biased.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e1591	During the debate, Mr Vaggen Malvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make an overall assessment of the entire Otra watercourse before the case of a new regulatory concession for Byglandsfjord and others. in the Otra watercourse and the construction of Power Plants and new transmissions [[Broken north and south]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be replaced by the recommendation of the Committee to II.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-25-2.ana.ud922e1629	The Socialist Left Party has announced that they will support the setting.
