ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e42	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e53	Odelstingen is examining today the proposal for a new law on biotechnology. The first time Norway was given a law dealing with the field of biotechnology was in 1987. Artificial insemination had been used as a method for relieving involuntary childlessness since the 1930s. On July 25, 1978, Louise Brown was born as the first child after being conceived outside the mother's body. 25 years later, 1 million people were born after so-called in vitro fertilisation, and in Norway the first time occurred in 1984. The Social Committee's suspension of the artificial fertilisation law was issued on 19 May 1987. It was the first time you got a regulation of artificial insemination and fertilization outside the body. Norway thus became the first country in the world to have its own legislation in this area, and was in many ways groundbreaking. In the context of the examination of the law on artificial fertilisation, the Stortingen submitted a request to the Government for a communication on ethical guidelines for the research and development of biotechnology and genetic engineering. The request led to St. meld. No 25 for 1992-93, About humans and biotechnology, which had as an important starting point in NOU 1991:6, Humans and biotechnology. During the process, in 1991, the Biotechnology Department was appointed. That notification, from the government of Brundtland, states: «Footer diagnostics affects sensitive areas where it can be easily played on unfounded fears, notions and prejudices. The development of such offers should therefore take place within a public health service and not be part of a private market-driven offer. Foetal diagnosis with a view to detecting genetic disease or developmental abnormalities in the foetus shall take place only at institutions approved by the Ministry of Social Affairs. New tests of this type shall be put into service only after authorisation from the same ministry.’ In addition, it says: ‘However, the Government rejects the development of an offer of foetal diagnostics on a basis aimed at avoiding the birth of people with genetic disease or developmental abnormalities for socio-economic or other societal reasons.’ Int. S. 214 for the 1992-93 majority, consisting of the members of the Labour Party, the Right and the Progressive Party, at the time: ‘The majority have noted that the Government adds to a very restrictive line in foetal diagnostics. Multiplier supports such a line...» The first law on the medical use of biotechnology was then adopted by the Stortinget in June 1994, based on the results of the treatment of St.meld. No 25-digit number It was decided that the law would be evaluated after five years. The Committee notes that the Children’s Ombudsman had complained at the time to the Norwegian Government of the United Nations Committee of Experts on the Children’s Convention, and was told that they had noticed a possible contrast between the Children’s Convention and the practice of anonymous sperm donors by artificial fertilisation. St.meld. No 26 for 1999-2000, On Norwegian health service values, the key values related to the planning, development and operation of the Norwegian health service were taken into account. Medical use of biotechnology was also mentioned in the notification. A full evaluation of the existing Biotechnology Act took place through St.melding. No 14 for 2001–02, and its treatment by the Grand Duchy in June 2002. The proceedings of the Stortinge were also the premise of the legislative proposal submitted by the Government in Ot.prp. No 64 for 2002-2003, and as we deal with today. In the following, I will examine in more detail the consideration given to the legislative proposal in the Committee and the Committee's position in relation to the various legislative proposals. The Biotechnology Act covers a number of topics: assisted fertilisation including insemination and assisted fertilisation outside the body child's right to information on sperm donor selection storage and import of sperm genetic examination of fertilised eggs storage of as well fertilised as unfertilized eggs regulation of egg donation and transplantation of organs and tissues producing germ cells research on fertilised eggs and cloning regulation of foetal diagnostics including ultrasound examination in the pregnancy genetic studies on birth control of the use of genetic data against banks, insurance companies and other non-health care use of genetic therapy Biotechnology subject's task criminal provisions related to violation of the law It is at all a law that is comprehensive and contains many elements. There are probably many elements to which a public debate could be given, not only in areas such as ultrasound or pre-implantation diagnostics, but in the case of insurance companies dealing with patient information, which is a field, just to mention examples. So it's a law that's being treated. The law contains 50 paragraphs, and the Committee is united on a number of issues dealt with by law. In the majority position, the Right, SV, Christian People's Party and the Center Party stand throughout for all fifty legal paragraphs, with the exception of §§ 2-2, 2-3 and 2-5. Here SV only suggests that lesbian couples should be treated as married and cohabiting in terms of the right to be offered assisted fertilisation. There has been a lot of media attention about the parts of the law that deal with foetal diagnostics in general, and ultrasound in particular. In this context, it may be worth clarifying that the Committee also here seems to be reasonably united in relation to the legal text itself. Paragraphs 4 to 1 even 4 to 6 deal with this. All lots other than the Advance Party agree on all of the above paragraphs, with the exception of Sections 4 to 4, where the Workers' Party has proposed a change related to the information the couple should be able to provide in relation to foetal diagnostics. The proposal of the Workers' Party sets a narrower framework for the information to be provided than in the majority's proposals. I expect that the Workers' Party itself will explain this in more detail. The Progress Party has 13 legislative amendments alone, and four together with the Labour Party. However, in the case of the Workers' Party, it is appropriate to point out that the party constitutes in substance the majority, together with all other parties, throughout the suspension of the fifty paragraphs, with the exception of the four paragraphs in which they are associated with the Progress Party, and the four in which they stand alone — three of them still concern the maintenance of anonymity for the sperm donor, two concern outreach genetic guidance, and two concern preimplantation diagnostics. The Committee has been set up to ensure that the provisions of the Act remain unchanged. It says in this one: ‘The aim of this Act is to ensure that the medical use of biotechnology is exploited for the benefit of people in a society where there is room for all. This shall be done in accordance with principles of respect for human dignity, human rights and personal integrity and without discrimination on the basis of heritage based on the ethical standards enshrined in our Western cultural heritage.» An overall committee contributes to clarifying that the scope of the law applies to humans and that the name of the law shall be ‘law on the human medicine use of biotechnology’. The Committee is integrated in the clarification in relation to the Government’s proposal that the Biotechnology Study should continue to be presented to all relevant cases, but that the Committee decides whether or not to give its opinion. A majority of the Committee, the members of all parties outside the Workers' Party, are in favour of abolishing the anonymity of the sperm donor and that any child shall have the right to know his biological origin. It is a historic victory for children, and it is a fulfilment of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, Article 7, to which Norway has acceded. An overall committee is in favour of sperm donation also by assisted fertilization outside the uterus. It has previously been permitted only by insemination. In the case of ultrasound, the law only regulates ultrasound used as a foetal diagnostic method in case of suspicion of foetal abnormalities, not the use of ultrasound in general maternity care. The majority of the Committee states that no information of medical relevance shall be withheld from the couple and that it shall be fully informed of the facts. Ultrasonics at week 18 shall occur just as today, while ultrasound other than medical indications shall be possible. It is clarified that ultrasound, under conditions other than medical, will not be prohibited but that it will not be refundable and that it will not be organised by general maternity care. I clarify this because I have registered that there have been articles in newspapers – also in the newspaper today – that are based on completely incorrect information. This concerns both a post by Sissel Benneche Osvold and an post by Aud Blegen Svindland, which makes a number of unsubstantiated claims – neither in relation to the proposition itself nor in relation to the majority position of the committee on the proposition. It is thus described in Aud Blegen Swindland’s article that normal ultrasound examinations of pregnant women will no longer be allowed unless there are medical indications. It's completely wrong. There are other claims that it would be too extensive to go into here, but I want to do for myself what I can to refute, even in the case of SV, a number of claims that have been gripped entirely out of the air and are completely crazy. I expect otherwise that the debate will later clarify what the majority here means in relation to ultrasonics, but there is no doubt, in order to be quite specific, that all the information that emerges from the study is to be communicated to the couple in an appropriate and gentle manner, and without holding back information that the couple themselves would like to have access to. One exception is made. It is a continuation of a provision that has been in force until now, namely a ban on information on the sex of the child before the 12th week. It is only the Progress Party that believes that that paragraph of the law should be amended. In the case of pre-implantation diagnostics, some media have looked up that the amendment proposed by the Government would limit the offer to those who have so far received it. It has not been the intention of the majority of the population, and the Government has followed up the observations of the majority of the population in the context of the treatment of the bigges in 2002. It has been found that some couples have been offered pre-implantation diagnostics in case of severe hereditary genital disease. As someone has received such an offer in the past, the majority have retained a legal wording similar to that of the law today, but which specifies that it will be in serious hereditary gender-related disease that preimplantation diagnostics will be allowed within the framework of the law. The reason for clarifying the ‘female bond’ is that the majority believe that serious demarcation problems will arise if the concept of ‘serious hereditary’ disease is accepted — for many of these conditions are seen to be treatable. If you were to start making that kind of diagnostics, you would have serious problems limiting the kind of diagnostics that could possibly be carried out. When I go through previous treatments in Stortinget, I also see that similar objections have come from all parties, namely warnings against the consequences of a pre-implantation diagnosis that goes too far in trying to find properties in the foetus. And on questions of that, or if there are any objections in the debate, I can also find formulations such as: The working party has had the exact same thing. There has been a discussion in the committee about so-called intracytoplasmic sperm injection. It is a difficult concept, but in practice it is about being able to insert sperm cells into the egg for fertilisation where it is not otherwise achieved due to e.g.: the characteristics of the male semen. The Committee is being collected to ensure that the method is no longer to be considered experimental in Norway, but that it can be accepted in the usual way. As a consequence, it will be possible to facilitate trials using the same method after the collection of sperm from testicles, if someone applies for the method and the Government gives its approval to it. In this case, it could reduce the need for sperm donors, for many of those who are currently sterile, for example because of dense sperm leaders, could become fathers through such a treatment method. I just think that in the end I will be a little informal. A week ago, I was in Bokbadet, listening to Anne Grosvold. She discussed there with the authors books that she had read – and there was no doubt that she had read those books. What I have registered from many teams, and not least from some journalists, is that when you specifically ask them about the content of the government's proposition, it turns out they haven't read it. I would say that there is a very bad starting point for getting involved in this kind of debate. And the two posts you see today in the newspaper are just an example of that. Much of the misunderstanding, insecurity and anxiety created by women who either want to get pregnant or who are already pregnant, they would not have had if they had got involved in what this matter actually concerns. I would say that both Sissel Benneche Osvold is doing in today's posts in the Newspaper and what Aud Blegen Svindland is doing with his two posts is very serious, because one provides information either because of a lack of knowledge or for better knowledge. I take up the suggestions that SV has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e194	The representative Olav Gunnar Ballo has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e197	The law which, after the odelstation, is entitled ‘Law on the Human Medical Use of Biotechnology, etc. [[Biotechnology Act]] ‘Genetic and biotechnological knowledge, and its practical use in healthcare, have been an important part of the innovations in modern medicine for the benefit of humans’.» And it goes on to say in the same place: ‘When biotechnology has been the subject of a major societal debate in recent years, it is not least because the use of this technology in medicine raises a number of controversial issues affecting fundamental aspects of human vision.’ Here the Government draws a line of conflict that creates unnecessary fronts. The Labour Party and I believe that the parties in the Norwegian big business set ethical values high in our society. I therefore believe that we should all be careful to characterise different views in the field of biotechnology as more moral and ethical than others. The development of knowledge is essential for good health provision for the population. Knowledge can of course be misused, and will then represent a dilemma and a problem, but within the democracy of our country this is not a relevant issue. Not to use knowledge and yet to keep the knowledge you have, concealed, is highly unethical as long as such knowledge can be of use to us. A fundamental principle of our health legislation is precisely the right of individuals to know and to receive treatment, and the duty of health services to provide the best. This serves as a basis for the Workers' Party's views on the Biotechnology Act. We also assume that healthcare should be knowledge-based. Unfortunately, it does not seem that the Government in its proposal has given this much attention in this context. At the same time, the working party suggests that we should regulate, follow up and check. Here we separate layers with the Advance Party in many areas of the law. One of the major challenges created by the majority for patients, health professionals and researchers is that in some fundamental areas, we have a significantly stricter law than our neighbouring countries and other countries in Europe have. This can be a law that affects the weak and those with the least resources. Resource strengths may use services in other countries. The road is also short to neighbouring countries from parts of our country. The majority, the government parties and SV, provide us with a law that is stricter in a number of areas, such as assisted fertilization, foetal diagnostics, genetic research, stem cell research and research on fertilized eggs. In addition, we are effectively tightening the use of ultrasonics. The Labour Party believes that we cannot live with the fact that we are dependent on methods of assisted fertilisation based on research from other countries, which we prohibit. This also puts our researchers and our health professionals in a dilemma, and prevents the natural development of competences. We're falling behind. Both genetic research and stem cell research have given hope for the treatment of diseases, including incurable diseases such as: Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Research on fertilised eggs seems vital. When the Government assumes that the integrity of individuals begins at the time of conception, the result will be a restrictive attitude to assisted reproduction and foetal diagnostics. At the same time, it is accepted that surplus eggs should be destroyed by assisted fertilisation. This must at least be a dilemma. Research on surplus fertilised eggs could provide some good answers to possible treatments in sick people. Others in the Workers' Party will address the confusion that the majority have created about the use of ultrasound, but it seems that we will have a restriction on current practice and that there is a borderline between foetal diagnosis and pregnancy control that is impossible to deal with in practice. I heard what the case rapporteur said on this topic, but it has not changed anything that is neither in the bill nor in the vote by the majority. Heavy professional environments that have to comply with the content of the law demonstrate this with great gravity. In this setting, parts of the Norwegian Medical Association’s input were included in the committee hearing, including: see: ‘Although the purpose of the study is to determine the term and number of foetuses, deviations will be detected in practice. In the case of findings of non-conformity, the law does not require an immediate examination of the foetus in order to detect or exclude disease or developmental abnormalities, but to refer the woman further. This will put health professionals in a completely impossible situation; they have the tool and the knowledge to do the study there and there — but they are not allowed to use it. The medical association considers this to be incorrect and that the pregnant woman should be given the opportunity to have available information on the foetus.» Yes, this well illustrates an unfortunate arrangement of the law. And it has to be a problem for us as legislators that we are actually making a law that is perceived as such by those who are going to enforce it. In addition, the law deprives the woman a bit of the right to know, and the right to self-determination, but this will extend to others. However, I would like to stress and refer to the fact that the Stortinge in the form of proposals has asked to be briefed on new guidelines for foetal diagnosis and use of ultrasound before these enter into force. I react to the fact that it is partly put up to a ban line while saying that a different view will lead to a sorting society. No, we must have faith through our humanistic attitudes that we have and practice the obvious thing in our society, namely respect for human dignity and the right of the individual citizen, adult as a child, to a worthy life. In addition, we have legislation in Norway that equates all people, including those with some disability. Finally, I would like to mention some of the proposals in which we otherwise disagree with the majority: We want an evaluation of the law already after two years of service, because a lot is changing rapidly in this area. The majority think five years is right. But it is quite obvious that we have a technological development and a medical development that means that we need to keep an eye on what is going on, both in our country and beyond its borders. We will allow for preimplantation diagnostics in connection with severe heritable disease. We will maintain the anonymity of the sperm donor by assisted fertilization when the sperm donor is a foreign donor, otherwise we fear that this system will end well on the way. We want to allow egg donation under certain conditions. The last thing it's important to open up to. When it comes to the question of anonymity, we are very much afraid that what we're doing in the law, that it should be possible for the donor to be anonymous, will cause the impact to collapse when we go in a different direction. We do not require written consent in the case of foetal diagnostics, as we believe that the consent rules are well respected in the patient rights legislation. As the rapporteur was involved, the Labour Party agrees with the majority and participates in and forms the majority in a number of areas of the law. It was carefully referred to by the case rapporteur, so I do not repeat it here. I am referring here to the proposals where the Labour Party is the proposer or the co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e246	The representative of Asmund Kristoffersen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e249	The evaluation of the Biotechnology Act after five years of work has been an exciting process. The changes we have to deal with today are in many ways the conclusion and rationalisation of the conclusions reached by the majority of the Grand Duchy in its examination of the notification last year. I see from some of the minority's remarks that this majority obviously only represents a special interest, while the minority represents the real majority. That kind of thinking opens up a lot of philosophical considerations about democracy, but I'm going to let that lie. What is exciting, however, is the broad and long debate we have had in Norway on this topic before considering the legislative proposal. The Biotechnology Act is less about science, but more about what fundamental values we want our society to build on. Should it be up to the individual, or should we try to set some common ethical boundaries? To me, it seems that it is relatively easy to agree on the humanistic values. We agree that we do not want a sorting society, that human dignity should not be graduated, and that man should not be created just to be an instrument for another. But the challenge is where policy meets science, when the objective is to be implemented as concrete leadership for both science and medicine. Then it's going to be hard, and it's not easy to be consistent. I think this is an area where we'll always meet dilemmas. But the option to take this inward is to let science have only self-discipline in relation to how our society is going to evolve in essential areas. It doesn't want to be right. Through democratic processes, society must set up some fence posts for the field of medicine and science to be allowed to operate in. This concerns many of the fundamental issues in life. A good example of this is the question: Why am I like me? We've seen that many in that generation of adoptive children now growing up are trying to find their biological parents. I think it's an expression that we need to view ourselves as more than an individual, as part of a larger context. Therefore, many are looking for this answer, without going at the expense of their relationship with and recognition of their social parents. Today’s legislation is an active obstacle to the possibility for children born by means of donor semen. The vast majority of children who have come to the donor seed are told this in life. I believe that as a society we do not have the right to deprive these children of the opportunity to search and find who is their biological father. The motivation for such an obstacle is to protect the donor and the choice of parents. But these people are adult people who, on their own behalf, fully choose this based on given premises. The unborn life does not have this opportunity to choose, and I believe that our main task must be to protect exactly this individual's rights. That is why I am very happy that all the parties outside the Workers' Party are now voting to give the children this opportunity, so they themselves at an adult age decide whether they want to take advantage of it. The regulation of the use of foetal diagnostics has created most debate as a result of this case. I believe that the debate has unfortunately not been marked by the nuances and the backwardness required by a debate on such a difficult subject. It is obvious that many people have the motivation to allow this to become a debate on abortion or more a debate on pregnancy control. The motives behind this are probably more. But it is obvious that there are several disciplines that do not like politics to limit their activities. But let's start with the starting point. The majority of the population supported the view of the Government in relation to the treatment of the Storing Communication, that there was a need for method-independent regulation of foetal diagnostics. In the past, method regulation would have been useful because the method, for example: foetal water tests are so complex and professionally demanding that the woman’s right to good guidance and expertise was ensured through this. But in time we see that new methods, which are much more accessible purely professionally, can be used for the same purpose, and there can be more results. Among other things, it is added. to facilitate the development of human sorting and, consequently, grading of human dignity. It may also lead to women who are going to make the most difficult choice in life making it available with different information. An example of the trend towards a sorting society by making the methods more accessible, we do not have to go beyond Denmark to find. In a county, all pregnant women are tested through a simple test using the amount of certain proteins in the blood to assess the risk of Down’s syndrome. This is a study that under this law will now be foetal diagnostics and thus only available at institutions approved for this purpose. Thus, there is an important limit that prevents us from getting a general screening of all pregnant women early in pregnancy. In the debate there has been a strong focus on ultrasound. This is enough because it is the survey most people have a relationship with in Norway. A number of claims have been made about the consequences of the law. Parents who have been shown that something was wrong in the ordinary ultrasound examination, and where the child has received help during pregnancy so that it went well in the end, have been told by professionals that this will be prohibited by the new law. Of course, they think this sounds quite monstrous, and I fully agree with them. The regular ultrasound examination shall be carried out as at present and, of course, no one shall be required to have blindfolds or to withhold information. In addition, there are two other forms of study which will be medically justified. It is in accordance with the criteria for foetal water diagnostics or on a medical indication. Ultrasonic studies with other purposes will not be prohibited, but they will not be refundable or medically justified. These are the technical criteria on which we are based from the 1996 consensus conference. The Government has announced in the bill that there will be a review of the criteria based on a re-evaluation of the professional and the legislative proposals. The Storting will ask in its own proposal that the Storting should be properly informed about these. These criteria will be professionally anchored, and it is therefore not natural for the Storting to treat them. I have registered that the representative Britt Hildeng has strong results against the proposal. In joint comments with the Progress Party, they consider that ‘rewording proposals’ imply a narrowing. However, I have not registered any concrete proposal from the Workers' Party in this area. It is therefore unclear to me what they are for, and what they are against. In concrete terms, it is not possible to see what they are actually against the Government's proposal. Nor have I registered anything other than that they are not included in the comment that studies that are not professionally justified should not be refundable. So there's good reason to ask, is this the difference? I hope the Labour Party can clarify this during the debate. In relation to suppression of the sorting society, clarification of the general rule on the prohibition of data on sex before the 12th week and vaccination in pregnancy is also very important. Here, there is broad support from all parties outside the Advance Party. The questions of research on fertilised eggs and therapeutic cloning are also addressed in the proposition. These issues were strongly addressed in the context of the processing of the notification and in Ot. pp. No 108 for 2001-2002. Therefore, I do not want to touch it further, but I note that it is still a majority of the ban. During the examination of the notification, the majority of the Government considered proposing a total ban on pre-implantation diagnostics. At that time, the majority had the impression that there was no offer for Norwegian patients, and that alternative methods were soon available. Among other things, through the proposition and the media, we have become aware that in Sweden the offer has been made to couples with severe hereditary genital disease, and that the alternative to testing semen is still experimental. That is why the Government is now proposing in the proposition that Norwegian patients should continue to receive an offer to do so. This might be the opposition claim to be double moral. I disagree. I believe that it represents one of the many ethical dilemmas we as legislators have to address if we want national legislation in this area. Here I think the approach of the Progress Party is frightening. In their comment, they say: ‘It seems to these members that previous medical research and experimental treatment leading up to the current level of medicine have also had many ethical dilemmas that would have raised serious questions as to whether development and research had been politically guided as is now foreseen in the present legislative proposal.’ Knowing what suffering many individuals have had to endure in the research and experimentation referred to here is perhaps the strongest argument for the need for regulation in this area. The formulation of the Progress Party is at best historyless, at worst an acceptance that the individual must suffer because it is in favour of the majority. In conclusion, I would like to say that there is reason to commend the Council of State and the Government, who have dared to take a clear stand. I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for a good cooperation and for a good job through difficult matters relating to the communication. The right is very happy that we have been constantly finding a solution between the government parties, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. In this way, there is a good basis for this law to be applied over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e291	Let me start by commending the case rapporteur for a good medical-technical production of the case itself. Now it is well to say that the case rapporteur, who is a doctor, may be the only one or one of the few in Odelstinget who is fully capable of entering the professional side of this law. Therefore, it is on the edge of the Government to ask for such a law, when it is as technically problematic as it is. The current majority vote will provide Norway with the most restrictive biotechnology law across Europe. The setting is inspired by the foresight and suspicion of Norwegian research environments and professionals. Pregnant women are also suspected, who are not considered to be able to make their own independent choices in a difficult life situation for them. Norwegian scientific and research environments are set on the sidelines, and Norway will lag behind an internationally important field of knowledge and research, a research on medicine and industrial development. The Government has failed to take into account warnings from an overall professional expert such as the Norwegian Medical Association, Biotechnology Name, Ethics Professional Committees or the Leakman Panel in relation to research on fertilised eggs, therapeutic cloning and foetal diagnostics. The Norwegian people are completely unaware of what is happening now and can have consequences for people affected by serious illness in the future, for example Parkinson's disease. I believe that the majority assumes a great deal of responsibility by adopting this law without having given the Norwegian people extensive information in advance on the serious consequences that the draft law has for individuals in a difficult situation of life. That the legislative proposal opens up the possibility for Norway to apply results from, for example: research on fertilized eggs and therapeutic cloning abroad, is not only deeply immoral, I think it is also a form of racism. The fact that the Christian People's Party in government, with its religious, fundamentalist view that sidelines fertilized eggs with a born human being in the field of moral status and legal protection, adds to a rematch on abortion law, I have a certain understanding of. It can't be easy for the Christian People's Party in government to sit and administer an abortion law that results in approx. 14 000 to 15 000 foetuses are removed annually. But the fact that the Right Party, and in particular the Left Party of Socialism, supports this rematch, which also reduces the individual woman's choice in relation to fetal medicine, is completely incomprehensible to me. It's past medical research and experimental treatment that has led medicine to today's level, which we're all happy with. I can hardly imagine that we would have had this positive development in medicine if medical technology development were to be political, as it is now put up in Norway by this law. As I see it, it's artificial to isolate a genetic part of biology and medicine. Both genetic and living conditions contribute to the normal development of a human being as well as to morbid development. The doctors must be given the opportunity to take care of the whole, which prevents this proposal in some fields. The Progress Party believes that the government's restrictive view of research on fertilised eggs can lead to a strong inhibition of biotechnological research and industrial development in Norway in this field, and Norway, for that reason, is lagging behind our neighbouring country. Research on fertilised eggs is permitted in very many countries in Europe. Such research on surplus eggs and therapeutic cloning is recommended in Norway by all our professional communities. Philosophy professor Øyvind Baune states in a chronicle in the Evening Post on 24 August 2003 that general compassion requires very strong reasons to prevent research into fertilised eggs that can cure seriously ill people. It is difficult for ordinary people to understand that it would be more morally high-grade to throw fertilized eggs into an incinerator than to use these abundant eggs for research to generate stem cells, which in turn can provide treatment to seriously ill people. A professor of ethics at the Faculty of Publicities said to the Evening Post on 16 November: ‘If the question of how society should deal with research on fertilised eggs is raised, the word ‘not’ was not included in the Evening Post Article 16 November. However, the correct wording should have been ‘in my opinion there is no doubt about...’, cf. corrigendum in the Evening Post of 18 November. In my opinion, doubts are raised that heavy standards in Christian ethics support the rejection of such practices.» The government ban I consider as if the government is more concerned with the unborn than the born. The government's fundamentalist view places similarities between therapeutic cloning and human copying, but this is fundamentally wrong. Research on fertilised eggs also plays a major role in further developing artificial fertilisation outside the body, so that this method becomes better and safer, with the consumption of fewer eggs. The restrictions in the legislative proposal on the use of ultrasound during pregnancy control clearly intend to reduce the number of abortions and make it difficult for the pregnant to obtain information on foetal developmental abnormalities early in pregnancy, which is now possible with modern ultrasonic technology and better foetal diagnostics. It should, in my opinion, be of interest, even on the part of society, that as early as possible in pregnancy one was exposed to damage to the foetus that is incompatible with life, or disease on the foetus that can be treated in the mother's life. Restrictions now imposed on the use of ultrasound in the context of pregnancy control are a direct estimation of the pregnant woman, who is suspected of not being able to make the right choice in a difficult life situation where the foetus is seriously injured. It is important in this context to draw attention to the fact that parents are responsible for one or more disabled children on a daily basis. It is both unreasonable and ethically wrong for the State to exercise a role of guardian when, in many areas, the State itself fails to do its job in relation to the disabled. I have recorded that the professional communities find the practice of the law very difficult, with the artificial distinction that the law has drawn between normal pregnancy control and foetal diagnostics using ultrasound. I've registered that professor Dr. with. Sturla Eik-Nes, in the evening post of 22 April 2003, stated that the new rules on the use of ultrasound contained in the bill could lead to more deaths and morbidity in newborns. After this statement, it is timely to ask, does not such statements by our leading medical experts on foetal medicine make any impression on the majority? It is a paradox for the Progress Party that while ultrasonic technology is constantly improving and allowing the treatment of the foetus early in pregnancy, we, as politicians in the form of law, must prevent these possibilities. The whole legislative proposal in Chapter 4 is a rematch on the abortion law and a serious discrimination against the pregnant woman. Regardless of the legislative proposal, doctors who carry out pregnancy control must be allowed to determine, in cooperation with the pregnant woman, how often and when ultrasound in pregnancy is appropriate and necessary to use. Norwegian doctors and Norwegian health professionals involved in pregnancy and foetal medicine, including ultrasonic use, are well educated to conduct these studies. They must also be obliged to provide immediate information to the woman whose deviations are observed, not only expedient the woman to a specialised clinic, which may cause insecurity and anxiety in the pregnant woman. At the risk of being misunderstood, I would remind both myself and Odelsting's members that we must not contribute to the stigmatisation of women who choose to have an abortion, whether severe anomalies are detected at ultrasound early in pregnancy, such as Down's syndrome. It cannot be ethically correct, as this law states, to prevent the use of ultrasound that can detect deviations early in pregnancy. This has nothing to do with sorting. The Socialist Left Party is alone in setting to open up insemination with donor semen to lesbians. In this regard it is very interesting to record a note in the position from the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, respectively, where it says the following: ‘Other members of the Committee from the Right, the Christian People’s Party and the Centre point out that the need for healthcare is very wide and that this requires the prioritisation of limited resources.’ Is it true that the Christian People's Party would have accepted artificial conception into lesbians if the resources had been present? I think it is very important that the representative of the Christian People's Party in Odelstingen clarify this during the debate. The part of progress refuses to give artificial fertilisation to lesbians, justified in the best interests of the child. It is important for the child to grow up in a family where it can relate to both the father’s role and the mother’s role. Developments in genetic and biotechnology are going very fast, and I therefore believe that we cannot wait five years before evaluating the law that is now likely to be passed. As mentioned above, the use of research results researched abroad shall be permitted. Who takes responsibility and the costs of professionally updating Norwegian researchers and geneticists abroad to benefit from the results in Norway, which are allowed to do after this legislative process and this proposition? Here we can talk about resources, resources used abroad, but which cannot be allowed to be used in Norway. This is double morality, as I said earlier, and I repeat that as I see it, there is some kind of racism, which we should not be familiar with in the Kingdom of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e336	Will the representative John I. Alvheim make any suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e339	I refer to the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e345	The representative John I. Alvheim has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e348	The attitude shows that the majority adopts a policy that is positive to the medical use of biotechnology, but at the same time sets clear limits at which research is at risk of violating human dignity. For the Christian People's Party, this is very important and in line with the purpose paragraph, which wants a society where there is room for everyone. Research on fertilised eggs shall continue to be prohibited. For the Christian People's Party, all humans have their own value, regardless of the stage of development, and can never be a means to others. On the contrary, it is our duty to protect life. Therapeutic cloning will mean that a creature creates a sprout for life based on a pure benefit assessment. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the majority is committed to previous ban proposals. It is very important that Norway continues research on adult stem cells. Christian People's Party wants preimplantation diagnostics to be banned. It is appropriate to provide for a method for treating sperm cells prior to fertilisation in case of severe hereditary germ-linked diseases. For the time being, the method is described as experimental, and we therefore accept that current legislation is continued until alternative treatment is available. The harvest's debate on foetal diagnostics and ultrasound should have been unnecessary. It has been clarified many times that ultrasound at 17-19. The duration of the pregnancy week shall be as at present, both in terms of the content of the study and in terms of the information for the pregnant woman. The proposition specifies: ‘it is essential that the woman be informed of the findings made and subsequently referred to’. The quality of ultrasound depends on the knowledge and experience of the investigator. For the woman, it becomes a quality assurance to be referred to a specialist, not a restriction. Medical and technical progress makes it possible to diagnose the disease at a very early stage of pregnancy. It provides a good opportunity to treat serious diseases in the foetus or to prepare for a difficult birth. But it can also develop a practice where a person opens up for sorting based on undesirable properties. This is about what society you want. The editor in Bergen’s Official Journal, who himself is the father of a dick with Down’s syndrome, writes the following: ‘How can we get a society that values the weak, if the same society is actively working to remove weak individuals before birth?’ We have to be careful about sending out negative signals to those who currently live with different disabilities. Many of them have bodies that reduce the spread of life but don't have to reduce the quality of life. The anonymity of the sperm donor shall now be deleted. The child gets the right to know his biological origin if it wants to. The children are being treated in the same way as adopted children, who have this right today. We believe this in the Christian People's Party is for the child's good. Sweden has been practicing such a law for more than 18 years without major problems in obtaining donors. By approving the ICSI method in combination with the collection of sperm from testicles and bit testicles, the need for donor semen will decrease, and many more could become biological fathers. The Labour Party and the Advance Party state that the Government has accepted the woman's right to abortion. That's not right. The Christian People's Party wants a more restrictive law. Today's debate is not about the abortion law, it is about parties being able to stand together in the fight against a sorting society despite different abortions. We stand together for human dignity and to create a society where there is room for everyone. I would like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues who have made this possible. To the Progress Party, who asked if we would have accepted assisted fertilization for lesbians if we had resources for it, I will answer no. I would recommend that the representative Alvheim read our comments in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e384	It's a big and difficult law we're dealing with today, and there's little one that can get in in 5 minutes. I will first give tribute to the rapporteur, Olav Gunnar Ballo, who has worked very hard on this, which was also made clear in his contributions at the beginning of the debate. We share most of his views as rapporteur on the matter. I want to go a little bit on the basis of this biotechnology law. In the existing biotechnology law, we have a purpose paragraph, and that's reason for noticing. It says the following: ‘The aim of this Act is to ensure that the medical use of biotechnology is exploited for the benefit of people in a society where there is room for all. This shall be done in accordance with principles of respect for human dignity, human rights and personal integrity and without discrimination on the basis of heritage based on the ethical standards of our Western cultural heritage.» The entire committee says that this should also be the basis of the law we are dealing with today. It is clear that we are now facing new ethical challenges in the field of biotechnology on a daily basis. Technical progress and new discoveries related to the human inheritance contribute to creating expectations of future health in terms of conditions and diseases as per. today may lead to severe functional impairment or to a risk of life. However, we must assume that human dignity should not be violated by differentiation in a sorting society, which was also the subject of the case rapporteur. It was pointed out when this was dealt with for the first time by the then government. Among other things, there are great opportunities in stem cell research. Stem cells can be thought to be transplanted to sick people to replace tissue-specific cells that have been lost and that the human organism cannot replace by its own help. Sources of stem cells may be cells from born individuals, so-called adult stem cells, cells from aborted foetuses, cells from fertilised eggs and cells produced by therapeutic cloning. We want, together with a majority of the committee, to focus our work and research on the future possibilities of using adult stem cells. It has been shown that the Norwegian research community has done a very good job here, and Norway's priority in this area can be groundbreaking. I do not think that is compatible with being immoral when using other research results, if necessary. I believe that Norwegian research needs to be intensified with the use of adult stem cells, and that we can then manage to show the way through such research and development. So there has been a lot of focus on this with pregnancy control and foetal diagnostics in connection with the work on the law. Today, we have six institutions that are approved for the implementation of foetal diagnostics. We believe that there should be more institutions capable of carrying out such investigations and diagnostics, but such diagnostic methods and practices should be approved by the Ministry. The majority of the committee, where we are, says the following about ultrasound: ‘Ultrasound in the general pregnancy control, including ultrasound on medical indication for example in the case of bleeding, is not defined as foetal diagnostics and is consequently excluded from the law.’ This is also mentioned in the proposition. It is that you can get ultrasound on the basis that you are worried that something is wrong. There may have been illness in the family, so that there may be cause for examination, or there may have been problems in previous pregnancy. We point out that the woman has the possibility of ultrasonic examinations both before and after an ordinary pregnancy study, but this examination will not be medically justified and is therefore not refundable either. Finally a little about this with sperm donation and anonymity. We believe that anonymity should be abolished. It's in line with the UN Children's Convention. We are also pleased that the collection of sperm from men with dense sperm leaders, for example. may now be accepted as an ordinary method. We also believe that it will make less use of donor semen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e416	An important part of the debate on the new Biotechnology Act has been the debate on the use of ultrasound in pregnancy control. In the legislative proposal, supported by the majority of committees, the Government advocates that ultrasonic studies, the purpose of which is to examine the foetus – or the pregnant woman – in order to detect or exclude disease or developmental abnormalities in the foetus, are now to be covered by the provisions of the Biotechnology Act. It is emphasised by the majority that in practice this will not have an impact on general pregnancy control. For example, when the law is to be understood in retrospect, it is the sum of the legal text, the content of the proposal, the suspension of the committee and this debate to be taken into account. I therefore feel a responsibility to ask questions about the claim that the legislative changes that will have a majority in Odelstinget today will not lead to changes in maternity care. There are in particular two things I want to touch, and I'm going to approach them through thoughtful examples. The first example is based on a woman carrying out general pregnancy control in 18 weeks in a medium-sized Norwegian hospital. The pregnancy has progressed normally. The examination is conducted by an experienced physician with additional training in the use of ultrasound. There are many of them. In order to determine the term, the diameter of the fetal head is measured. In this connection, the doctor finds an abnormality in the anatomy of the brain. This information is provided to the woman, and she is also informed that this provides a basis for further referral to an institution authorised for foetal diagnostics. However, the woman has major practical difficulties in leaving, so she is asking for the doctor’s competence in this area. She wants the findings made to be followed up by the same doctor in subsequent examinations. Of course, the doctor himself has to assess his own competence in this area, but if he believes he is competent to follow up on this woman, then it is interesting question as to what his legal position will be according to the law we are dealing with today. Further investigations will indisputably aim at finding non-conformities. Will the doctor then be allowed to carry out such studies, or is he required to refer to the approved foetal diagnostics institution? The majority must have a clear answer to this question. If not, there will be a legal situation in this area. The majority must have a clear answer as to whether this doctor should be able to proceed with examinations or whether the doctor is required by law to refer to it independently of his own competence. And what about the woman herself? Could she be the one who decides this? In this way, in my view, the majority is unclear. In the setting, the majority at one point says: ‘If foetal abnormalities are detected, further reference shall be made to an embryo-diagnostic institution.’» In another place, the same majority says: ‘In case of suspicion or detection of non-conformity, the pregnant woman shall, if she so wishes, be referred to an embryo-diagnostic institution.’;» What does that mean? Is it the woman's choice or shall referral take place? If it is the woman's choice, will the woman's choice give the doctor the right to conduct ultrasound examinations for the purpose of finding anomalies? These questions must be answered! Next example will bring me into a new area. A woman is pregnant for 13 weeks. She has no medical indication that something is wrong. Her pregnancy is not an indication of foetal diagnosis. She's also not particularly worried. She just wants to know if everything is normal. That is why she is looking for a specialist to have an ultrasound examination carried out. There can be no doubt that the purpose of such an investigation is to search for non-conformities. It is not part of the general pregnancy control. There is no medical indication. On the basis of the majority’s observations, one must then assume that in the future such a study will fall within the scope of the Biotechnology Act. And the plural says, ‘However, ultrasound of the general pregnancy control, including ultrasound of the medical indication, for example, in the case of bleeding, is not defined as foetal diagnostics and is consequently excluded from the law.’ The logical consequence of this is that in my case, the woman is covered by the law. So the woman cannot get such a study from the specialist concerned. In that case, she must be referred to the approved post-natal diagnostics institution. There I would assume that it will not be easy for her to come in, all the time when there is no medical indication. But also at this point, the majority in my view is unclear. For later in the vote, the majority, and several have quoted it in this debate, say that: ‘ultra sound other than this would not be medically justified and should therefore not be refundable. This study has the possibility for the woman both before and after an ordinary pregnancy study, but such a study will not be medically justified and therefore not eligible for reimbursement». Yeah, one thing is the money. It's worth a debate in itself. We have long traditions in Norway to ensure that all maternity care is free of charge. But my main point is that the woman will not have access to studies before and after regular pregnancy control, because such studies are, of course, subject to the law and therefore are only to be carried out in approved institutions. Thus, the woman’s right to decide for herself what she wants to know in her pregnancy course is limited. Of course, it can be claimed that a woman who does not have a medical indication does not need such an ultrasound examination. But in this way, the Workers' Party chooses to protect the woman's right to decide for herself what she wants to know in her pregnancy. We choose to say that Norway should be a voice in terms of costs of pregnancy control. In this area, too, it is important that the majority clarify their views. Would the woman in my example be able to have ultrasound examination carried out by a specialist even if there is no medical indication, or should such studies be referred to an approved institution? Will she get the study done if she pays for it herself, which seems to be a point in the majority vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e469	The government’s proposal for the law on foetal diagnostics, which also includes ultrasound for this purpose, strengthens parents’ right to information in the context of pregnancy control. The Government’s legislative proposal distinguishes between the use of ultrasound in the usual maternity care and studies intended to investigate genetic properties, disease or developmental abnormalities of the foetus. This is due to the fact that the latter forms of studies require a higher level of competence and better information and guidance from parents. Health care professionals under regular pregnancy control should not provide information on malformations, as some have produced it. The point is that if developmental abnormalities are detected by regular pregnancy control, parents must be informed and referred to a specialist. This means strengthening the right of parents to information and thus a better basis for making difficult choices. In addition, the legislative proposal will ensure that women who receive an ultrasound examination for the purpose of diagnostics receive the same right to information and guidance as women as, for example, do. have been subjected to a water test for the unborn child. This part of the Biotechnology Act has led to a loud discussion, a discussion where sports seem to have gone wrong in misinterpreting the majority and the Government. Let it be clear, as it has also been underlined by several before me: ultrasound examinations carried out as part of general maternity care are not to be regarded as foetal diagnostics and are therefore not to be covered by the law. This means that the regular ultrasound examination available to all pregnant women in the 17-18th week of pregnancy should continue as it is now. Of course, during such a study and during studies carried out earlier in pregnancy on a medical basis, all abnormalities, diseases, irregularities detected must be communicated to the woman. It is therefore wrong to claim that the majority of healthcare professionals have almost asked them to close their eyes to what is detected by irregularities during such an investigation. No later than today, Dagbladet has a notice about a doctor referred to as the ‘mother of the abortion law’, who is upset that the woman should be denied available information on the foetus before the 18th week of pregnancy. There's no point at all to claim this. Asking someone to hold this information back would be a serious wrong both to the pregnant woman and to the professional staff conducting the investigation. Let me also stress that there is no reason to suggest the abortion ghost. The debate on the entire Biotechnology Act is sensitive. It's about central value issues, where there's disagreement in several areas. It is then important, in respect of different views, not to attribute other opinions for which there is no basis. It upsets me as a politician, a woman and a three-child mother to be suspected of wanting to hold back information for the permanent parents after an ultrasound examination, or of being accused of preventing any rapid treatment. Nor is it true what stood for large types of war on the front of one of our tabloids, that the government has turned around. Both the Government and the majority of the Committee have been doing the same thing all along. For what reason some parts of the trade unions in particular have been attacked by this part of the law and spread disinformation, dare not be mentioned right now. At least it doesn't seem like they've read the proposition. It says clearly: ‘However, if deviations are detected during a general maternity check, the Ministry considers that it is very important that the woman be informed of the findings made and then referred to an establishment approved for the purpose of performing foetal diagnostics.’ It is emphasised by some hearing bodies that a number of institutions that currently offer ultrasound, but are not authorised to carry out foetal diagnostics, possess competences which, in the case of some malformations, do not need to refer further to further information, investigation and any treatment. It's possible. But then these institutions are free to apply to the Department for approval for the use of ultrasound for foetal diagnostics. Then, if you have the necessary and relevant competences, you will be able to obtain approval for foetal diagnostics, including the competence to provide the information and guidance required by the couple. The law that Odelstinget has been invited to adopt today will provide the woman with the best information and guidance possible. By requiring adequate skills, we will also ensure the best possible treatment if appropriate, and the woman, possibly the couple, will be assured of the best and most secure information if they are faced with difficult choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e493	The proposition and setting Odelstinget treats today is a follow-up to Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 14 for 2001-2002, on the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act. The legislative proposal continues largely from the current law on the medical use of biotechnology from 1994 but contains some fundamental changes and some structural changes of minor importance. The technology in this field is in rapid development, and it is important that we can, through legislation and official control, seek to direct this development to the best of the individual and society. The regulation of the medical use of biotechnology must be based on key ethical values in our society. The proposed continued objective of the Act sets out important objectives for the areas regulated by the Biotechnology Act. This provision underlines the fundamental principle that the medical use of biotechnology should be exploited for the benefit of people in a society where there is room for all. This shall be done in a manner which respects human dignity, human rights and personal integrity, and without any discrimination. Such considerations as well as the reasons for professionally sound activities shall be taken into account for the activities in this field. The Government wants to facilitate the medical use of biotechnology for the benefit of Norwegian society within ethically sound frameworks. When biotechnology has been the subject of a major societal debate in recent years, this is not least because the use of this technology raises a number of controversial issues that affect fundamental aspects of human vision. These include: on different perceptions of the beginning of human life, human reproduction, the moral status of foetuses and fertilised eggs and issues related to the use of technology, among others. in order to sort out undesirable genetic properties. With the term ‘sorting society’, we think of a society in which you sort and select what is not in line with what society sees as ‘normal’ or ‘desirable’. Preimplantation diagnostic techniques can be used to sort out fertilised eggs that do not have the desired genetic characteristics. And by developing increasingly better ultrasonic techniques and better and simpler methods of genetic foetal diagnostics, the knowledge of the foetus increases, which may increase the ability to sort those that are ‘other’. Such sorting is ethically problematic. This means that we get a society that signals that there is not room for everyone, and it can seem very stigmatizing to those who live with disabilities or different kinds of diagnosis and syndromes today. The possibility of a society with completely new class divisions is so absolute. I am surprised that the Workers' Party is so little concerned with setting limits for this development. The fight against the sorting society will be a struggle for human dignity and a struggle for the right to be different. That we want to fight a sorting society is among other things. expressed in that provision of purpose of the law, on which there is otherwise broad agreement. Here it has been established that the medical use of biotechnology should be exploited for the benefit of people ‘in a society where there is room for all’. The government believes that we need to work to better facilitate relationships, so that the prerequisite for such a society becomes a reality. In this context, both general principles laid down in legislation and good support in everyday life and the attitudes and ethical values of individuals will be important. It's about what kind of society we want to live in. Research and development shall be a good thing for the people involved. Then it is also important to direct research, so that we have a common ethical framework to deal with. We can't let technology control us, but we have to take care of development ourselves, and guide the technology in the direction we want to go. For this reason, the Government wishes, among other things, to: to focus on the non ethically problematic directions in research, such as: research on adult stem cells rather than research on embryonic stem cells. Researchers and professionals will naturally want maximum freedom, but the whole of the Biotechnology Act is precisely that society has both the right and the freedom to set limits and the framework for the activities of professionals in this field. Some argue in this debate that it would be unjustified at all to have a biotechnology law. But that's exactly what's behind it. Research on fertilized eggs raises ethical dilemmas, and I am pleased that the majority of the social committee sees it and therefore upholds the prohibition contained in the law today. The prohibition of research on fertilised eggs has resulted in the absence of access to preimplantation diagnostics in Norway. I note that the majority of the social committee wants to allow couples who want genetic testing of fertilised eggs when there is a serious hereditary genital disease, with the help of the health care system, to travel abroad to get this offer. I also note that this should be the case as long as there are no alternative treatment options for this group, i.e. pending further development of the method of pre-fertilisation treatment and, if possible, in the future. The proposal for the regulation of foetal diagnostics and ultrasound has been the most debated in the context of the consideration of the proposition. How to regulate this is also about what kind of society we want, and to what extent we want to be governed by technological development. We have a law on foetal diagnostics that has been widely agreed on, among other things. because it is important to ensure the quality of such studies and to ensure that women and couples who choose to use foetal diagnostics understand what it can mean for them. Genetic guidance is an important keyword in this context. When ultrasonic technology has evolved to provide the same type of information by ultrasound as by other foetal diagnostic studies, it is logical that these should be regulated in the same way as other such methods. The fact that a proposal to control such technological developments causes discontent in some is not surprising. I am pleased that there is now a majority of the principle that ultrasound for the purpose of obtaining information on the genetic properties of the foetus or to detect or exclude disease or developmental abnormalities of the foetus shall be subject to the provisions of the Act on the approval, consent and information and genetic guidance. This is important, for example: for women and couples in difficult choices, in order to ensure optimum information and follow-up. Ultrasonic studies in general maternity care are not considered to be foetal diagnostics and are not covered by the law, except for the prohibition of gender information before 12 weeks. There has been a lot of debate about what lies in this exception. For the Government, it has been important, on the one hand, to have ultrasound control used for foetal diagnostics, but, on the other hand, to ensure that mothers and foetuses receive the best care possible during pregnancy and at birth. At the same time, achieving these two purposes is not easy. I think everyone who has been a participant in the debate has to admit it. What surprises me, however, is that those who have argued against the Government's proposal so little recognize the ethical dilemmas that lie in this. The legislative proposal now under consideration is a good one. The Social and Health Directorate will be asked to develop professional guidance on the content and practical implementation of ultrasound in the maternity care system. I want to make sure that the Storting is properly informed about this work. Some have tried to make this a debate on the abortion law. It's not. There are differing views on the law of abortion, both between the government parties and between the parties that make up the majority of important points in the vote. But the setting is an example of an agreement between opponents of today's abortion law and those who are for the woman's right to choose whether to complete or discontinue pregnancy, but for a right to choose what kind of child she wants. That's the most politically interesting thing about this setting. In addition to replacing the term ‘artificial fertilisation’, the main change in this area is that sperm donors should no longer be anonymous. This is an important change for the children concerned, who want to know their biological origin. For the Government, the best interests of the child and the fact that the authorities should not establish systems which make it impossible to identify the child’s biological origin have been decisive. We have always been aware that this has some practical consequences that need to be addressed. For the treatment of St.meld. No 14 for 2001-2002 asked the Swedish Government to prepare for the establishment of such an offer, and therefore a wide-ranging working group has been set up to do its job well and to make proposals on how to continue to ensure an offer to those couples who need to be insemination with foreign donor semen. Swedish experience has been at the heart of the work and funding has also been proposed for this purpose in the 2004 budget. Genetic studies on births also raise difficult ethical issues. In the case of genetic testing, the extent to which employers and insurance companies must have access to genetic information, which has been discussed, both in Norway and internationally. I note with satisfaction that the majority of the Committee has adhered to the principles underlying the Government's proposals for regulation in this area. With regard to the chapter on gene therapy, some amendments have also been proposed, but these have not raised the same debate, and I also note here that a large majority of the Committee has joined the legislative proposals. Let me also point out that on a number of important points in this bill there is a broad consensus in this Chamber on what is finally being adopted. It is, in my view, an expression that despite the relatively sharp words that have fallen so far in the debate, a broad political consensus in Norway that this sensitive and ethically conflicted area requires specific regulation of the law, as we have seen from the 1994 Act on the Medical Use of Biotechnology. I think that this recognition should be at the root of the discussion, too. In conclusion, let me welcome the fact that the majority of the Social Committee, in its position, has joined the Government's proposal for a new law on biotechnology on all essential issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e525	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e528	As I referred to in my article, the Government itself advocates that knowledge of biotechnology and innovation in this field should be fundamental to the treatment of patients in the Norwegian health care system, as the Council of State so far had in mind. Preventing Norwegian research weakens Norwegian research and development of competences. In addition, I see that for women, the result is that some with the necessary resources seek out of the country to get what they want, while others have to refrain from treatment. This might be sorting. The Labour Party believes that we should have rules in both research and treatment, and then the question to the Council of State is: How does the Council of State view that the Government has proposed and Odelstinget adopts a system of artificial fertilisation based on research in other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e535	The representative, Kristoffersen, now makes it so that there is something new that has come with this government that we have provisions in Norwegian legislation that regulate research in this field. That's not the case. We have had a ban on research on fertilized eggs since 1987 in this country, and a majority of the Stortinget have wanted such regulation throughout this period. It has been desired, knowing that this is the way to intervene in the possibilities of developing methods of assisted fertilisation in the Norwegian trade unions. However, it has been decided to lower that threshold because it has not been desired to cross the border in Norway and make unborn life a research object, rather than allow therapeutic cloning, which has now been adopted. I believe that it is therefore clear that we have just taken the consequences that there is an ethical dilemma here, and we have drawn a clear conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e540	I attended the UN General Assembly in the autumn and was told in a meeting with a representative from the Ministry of Health and one from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that Norway has been participating in a working group for two years with a view to obtaining an international ban on the copying of people. This could be achieved, but in this work Mexico has put forward a proposal to equate the copying of people with therapeutic cloning, and Norway has supported it. That is why we have not yet received a majority internationally to prohibit the copying of human beings. Does the Minister of Health think that his government has authority from the Stortinge to conduct this type of negotiations, where therapeutic cloning is equated with human copying? Because that's obviously not right and a bad interpretation of the problem. After all, there are 68 representatives in this process who are in opposition, and usually on foreign policy issues, the Government is relying on consensus before it goes on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e547	The representative Alvheim, despite his stay in the United Nations, has not been able to fully update on what has been Norway’s position in this discussion. Norway has worked for a long time to ban the copying of people, as the representative Alvheim calls it, i.e. Reproductive cloning. We should agree on this first and then move on to the issue of therapeutic cloning regulation. We haven't managed to do that. Norway has clearly stated in international forums that the Norwegian position is that of Norwegian legislation, that both reproductive cloning and therapeutic cloning are prohibited under Norwegian law. And if what has not been adopted Norwegian law in Stortinget should be a mandate for the Norwegian government in international forums, I ask you what would be.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e555	SV is in favour of offering semen donation under given conditions also to women living in partnership, based on our desire to equate people living in partnership or partnership with people living in marriage or marriage-like conditions. Then I see that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party justify their resistance to going into this with resource conditions, and that in one case one characterizes it as a disease by sterility, in the other case not a disease because it is not due to sterility. But what we are offering today is, among other things, re-channelisation in men who have been sterilised. Does the Council of State, as a consequence of this, mean that a man who is allowed to sterilize voluntarily is to be considered sick after the procedure? This should be the reason why he could later be offered treatment for the condition when treating the two groups differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e562	I believe that the question of who the healthcare service should address in relation to the need for assisted fertilisation is linked to what is the reason why you cannot have a child. When there are medical or anatomical reasons for this, I think it's a health care task to take care of. This is not the case in which SV enters the setting, and which SV so far stands alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e567	Today, six institutions are authorised to carry out foetal diagnostics. In this setting, the majority say that we should have a larger network of such institutions, and that we need to ensure a decentralised foetal diagnostic offer, such as: ultrasound diagnostics. What is the Government's plan now to be able to comply with the majority's view here, so that one gets a better and more detailed offer for everyone in this country in terms of such foetal diagnostics?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e574	The basis for the Government’s proposal to regulate this part of foetal diagnostics is the need to ensure the quality and professional genetic follow-up of the women and couples undergoing such studies. Therefore, it is important to have an offer that both meets the need, which is sufficiently decentralised, and of sufficient professional quality. That is the basis for the proposal, and we will follow up the comments made by the Committee on this subject in dialogue with the professional communities, the Social and Health Directorates and the hospitals, so that the intentions clearly expressed by the Committee can be met.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e579	In my post today, I used as an example a woman who was pregnant for the 13th week, and who wanted to get ultrasound done, not because there was any medical indication of the need, but because the woman wanted to know what the situation of the fetus was. I then raised the question whether the new law would allow the woman, if she wants to, to have such an ultrasound examination carried out by a normal specialist, without having to go to an approved post-natal diagnostics institution. Here it will be very important how the Council of State itself understands the law he has promoted. So my specific question is about a woman who is pregnant for the 13th week. There is no medical indication of the need, but she wants to know how the fetus is doing. Can she, with the new law, have an ultrasound examination carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e586	One of the objectives of the Government’s proposal is to ensure that foetal diagnostics are in practice also regulated as foetal diagnostics under the law. Without the fact that I will be able to address in detail an imaginary case as described by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen here, I would say that if the purpose of such a study is foetal diagnostics, the law provides a clear answer to that question. In that case, she must be referred to an approved establishment for that purpose. Let me also underline in this debate that, in the context of general pregnancy control, the purpose of it has never been to screen all pregnant women at that stage of pregnancy to systematically search for markers capable of detecting heritable diseases.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e593	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e596	When the chapter on ultrasound has created uncertainty, it is because many, and not only the minority in the social committee, have got the impression that there is a restriction of the right to self-determination of pregnant women, and thus this has become a controversial chapter in this bill. More before me have taken up the principal aspects of this, but there is one thing that touches our feelings. We want to fight everything we perceive as a threat to our children. We will demand that the knowledge we have be applied to the best interests of the children. We have so much knowledge in this area that, in our opinion, we cannot take back any of this knowledge. When this creates anxiety, it is because most Norwegian women perceive the ultrasound examination as a very common routine in their pregnancy, not to find an aberration in the foetus, but simply to see that it is a life they carry. I think most people will think that the word'sorting societies' is removed in this context. Women must have free access to knowledge of the embryo that they bear. We're not worried that there's going to be any overconsumption of ultrasound. We trust that women can regulate this need. No one should be denied or given any information, but it must be the decision of the pregnant woman to choose what she wants to know, not least with regard to the responsibility of taking the consequences of the knowledge she receives. It might be said as a parentheses: in the Workers' Party we are at least concerned that we must work with all the good forces to find a lasting assurance of the training in ultrasound for midwives at the National Center for Foster Medicine at the St. Olavs Hospital in Trondheim. In the budget for last year, the whole Storting managed to earmark funds for this project. I hope that this year too we can maintain a national responsibility for that. So to the principle of free maternity care. A few days ago, in the Inner East. O. No 3 for 2003–2004 on midwives and reimbursement, the Social Committee established the principle that pregnancy control should be free of charge. A legislative proposal on biotechnology and genetic engineering should not be used to rock such a principle. Even the government parties and SV believe that early ultrasound may be necessary and desirable in certain cases. Then we find it strange that the same parties are already going to rock by saying that the pregnancy follow-up is going to be free. The need for protection during pregnancy must not be made dependent on the economy. Finally, SV wants assisted fertilisation to be given to women living in partnership, with the possibility for the child to be given a father. The Family Committee is now working on a proposal for a step-child adoption for lesbians, but only where biological father is unknown. As far as I can see, adoption can then only be valid for couples who have carried out artificial conception abroad. It is important that the question of assisted fertilisation for lesbian and child reproduction in lesbian couples is examined more widely. The regulatory framework must be clear and coherent in this area. I think this is a field where we need a broader debate before we move on. We believe that the path of an investigation will provide the basis for taking a position for several parties. The Labour Party has therefore proposed a public inquiry into children growing up in families with gay parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e609	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e612	There has been a high temperature in the media debate on the treatment of the biotechnology law. SV has been attacked to rock the woman's right to self-determined abortion and the woman and the man's right to get information and see if there is anything wrong with the fetus on ultrasound. The woman's right to self-determined abortion is an irrefutable requirement on the part of SV. Women have fought for self-determined abortion for a long, long time, and this is a right SV will protect about. Women shall have the right to determine their own bodies – this is a basic vision in SV. We're not going back to unworthy abortions with men who made decisions that were both unsocial and random. In the case of ultrasound in pregnancy, I would like to stress that the screening tests around 17-18. the weeks and ultrasonic tests referred to for medical reasons before the 12th week shall be carried out exactly as at present. You have to look for everything you can see. There is a need to check whether something is wrong with the foetus today and to inform parents in the event of deviations and refer to foetal diagnostics. I have worked in maternity care as a midwife for over 20 years in the municipality and in hospital outpatients with ultrasound examinations. This has been common practice in recent years since the 1995 consensus conference, which concluded that screening in 17–18. Weeks were the most favourable in relation to the time-limiting and morning cake placement. The professional community has not made any new recommendations. SV would like to take a new debate on this if the professional community comes to a different conclusion from the 1995 consensus conference. We who have worked in pregnancy control and reference to ultrasound have referred to screening for weeks 17-18 and before 17-18. week on medical indication. It is exactly the same practice to be followed in the future. It has also been common to refer further to the special department if deviations have been found in the ultrasound examination. This is a security that many women are concerned about. It is necessary and appropriate for those carrying out foetal diagnostics with ultrasound to have the best equipment and the highest level of competence. The Labour Party did not propose to extend ultrasonic screening in this debate. I cannot understand that the consequence of the debate conducted by the Labour Party is not screening before 12 weeks to see if there is anything wrong with the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e623	Today, there is a debate and a final decision on major ethical issues. It's largely about women's freedom to control their own bodies. It is also about how we can best ensure good care for our newborns. Basically, the knowledge and opportunities of biotechnology are a good thing for mankind. It is amazing that today children can be born through medical help. At the same time, it is important that we ensure democratic control of the application of biotechnology. I have to agree with those who believe that the principles of the abortion law are being attacked today. We also see that the same applies to good maternity care by partially defining ultrasound as foetal diagnostics. Ultrasound is a method of investigation and not bio- and genetic engineering. Thus, foetal diagnostics are made by conditions that are not. With this we deprive women of the security they could otherwise have. The momentum of this law is alarming. At first it seemed that the government was trying to tie up how much information the parents were going to get, and how much information the health professionals were going to look for. But what is even more alarming and sad is that SV has gone back and forth in this matter. I believe that what they are now adding up to is a step back. It may seem that fear of new technology is at the expense of freedom of choice, maternity care and foetal surgery. The abortion law is about women being recognised as responsible people with control over their own bodies and lives. For me, the principle is enshrined in the law of self-determined abortion. Today, in that context, women in this country become a retreat. But the tightening-up also represents a distrust that women can make sound ethical choices. I think by following this debate that it might seem that the government is pushing the fear of the sorting society ahead, and let's not tell you about the many heavy stories that we know are out there in our country. It is both sad and strange that we experience SV as a supporter of the Government in the ban on research on fertilised eggs and the narrowing of maternity care. The background should be the fear of the sorting society, scepticism of new technology and I would say a generally conservative attitude towards foetal medicine. I very much agree with those who believe that the majority expresses some form of geographical double morality in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e639	The rapid development of medical technology poses ever-increasing challenges for professionals, politicians and, in particular, pregnant women. Technology has given many people new opportunities, and many have gained a better quality of life thanks to new technology. That's what I have as a midwife for 20 years, when I worked six years with ultrasound, I've experienced many, many times. Of course, it is important to take advantage of the opportunities offered by technology, but it is equally important to be concerned about where the frontier is going. The development raises ethical issues about human vision, knowledge and value choices that the professional community cannot have a monopoly on having an opinion on. Not all use of technology is necessarily for the best, and it cannot be that everything that can be done has to be done. In my opinion, it must be the ethics to control the technology, not the other way around. Technology moves boundaries and intervenes in the very process of life and the germinal life. It can affect and improve the situation of some, and it can also help to keep life in a life that was previously defined as an abortion. The same technology can interrupt a life for quality reasons. So it represents both a security and a threat. Medical expertise is left to a control over life it may be difficult to overtest. In the fight to move borders, we are at risk of creating new standards and new demands for what is a viable life. It is an inhuman choice for the woman and the child hazard to decide on the intrinsic value of the foetus according to the degree of developmental deviation. When a fetus has large and severe developmental abnormalities and is not viable, it is likely that abortion will create the least impact for the woman, instead of waiting for the foetus to die in mother's life, at birth or shortly afterwards. But neither are these cases that create debate. There are fetuses with less developmental deviations that represent an ethical dilemma. Nor is foetal diagnosis itself causing problems, but it is combined with selective abortion to interrupt foetal life for quality reasons. A «quality control» of the ultrasonic foetus within the limits of self-determined abortion is possible. There is a development that I fear the consequences of, and that can lead to children with small deviations being removed. That is why I believe it is important to set limits, and I fully support the majority position. It's an important signal about what kind of society we want. But in any case, the law can only drag up the outer boundaries. The important question for all of us is how we can manage to mobilise sense of responsibility in the area between ethics and law so that foetal diagnostics can be a security and a help, and not a threat to human dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e654	For the Christian People's Party, human life is sacred, and it is inviolable. The struggle for human dignity is one of the pillars of the ideas of the Christian People's Party. We can never accept that man is made a means. Man should always be a goal in himself. Unfortunately, I note that in this room the party is not willing to accept this. The party of progress has gone high in this debate, and they criticise the Christian People's Party for being preoccupied with ethical dilemmas and too little interest in research. At the same time, the same party wins, outside this hall, to be the party closest to the Christian People's Party and our basis of value. But when it comes to the view of man and the view of life, the truly Christian People's Party and the Progress Party separate themselves from each other. Today's debate and the committee setting really show this. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party write in the setting that they “do not consider a fertilised egg to be an individual”. The party of progress also says that they will go in for therapeutic cloning. This is a very clear violation of the values of the Christian People's Party. It also points out that we need to look at what is happening in other countries before we take our own decisions. At a UN conference, there were 60 countries that clearly said no to therapeutic cloning. But Norwegian legislation can never be determined by what happens in other countries. We are forced to have a self-assessment based on ethical issues we see, and where we want the limits to be for medical research. The Christian People's Party wants to ban research on fertilized eggs because we want to protect the germinal life. And the Christian People's Party believes that any germinal human life has a self-esteem that does not depend on attributes or abilities based on societal effort. The desire of the party to accept therapeutic cloning is the same as accepting that a potential human life is produced to be used for research. I understand that the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party here have different values and different ideas, but I can't understand why the Advance Party each time should choose the method that is ethically problematic at any time. The party of progress also points to the fact that this bill is dictated by ideological special interests. And the representative Alvheim actually went so far today as to call this Christian fundamentalism. Is it an ideological special interest to want a society for everyone, a society where one is allowed to be different, and a society that doesn't want to sort people out? Christian People's Party is investing in research and new medical technology, but research can never violate human dignity. That is why in the Christian People's Party we say no to researching emerging human life. That's why we in the Christian People's Party refuse to make human lives just to research it. That is why in the Christian People's Party we say yes to children to know their origins, and that is why the Christian People's Party says yes to a law that sets limits for sorting human life by inheritance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e671	It is not always that I am enthusiastic about the contributions of the Christian People's Party to this Chamber, and at least not today, at least when the last speaker highlights his wonderful view of humanity, and that it is only the Christian People's Party that upholds human dignity. Then I'm starting to get a little worried. Especially when we see that what the representative Osmundnes really is attacking, for example: is research on fertilized eggs, which more in this room actually go into, it is strange that the representative Osmundnes does not see his own ethical dilemma. The representative of Osmundnes thinks it's good to discard superfluous eggs. The representative Osmundne accepts in this room by going in for this setting what goes on in self-determined abortion, but to research on fertilized eggs, it's going too far. It's okay to throw them, but at least you don't have to research them. In fact, I believe that the representative of Osmundnes has a real dilemma in this matter. Furthermore, I do not think the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has received an answer to his questions to the Government when, among other things, it did. This applies to women who are only a little worried about pregnancy and seek specialist advice. They should then be referred to an approved post-natal diagnostics institution, and then they say later that you just shouldn't get a refund for it. I think you need some clarification in this matter. Is it just the economic that's to be taken into account here? Or is it that even health professionals, if they then carry out this service, should be punishable by the Health Care Act? Then there is at least one area where the Progress Party in this matter agrees with the Christian People's Party, you have to take with you the little thing that is. It's about lifting the anonymity of sperm donors. It is important for the best interests of the child. Because then, if it turns out that a donor can also be the bearer of a genetic disease, it is possible for the child then to have the opportunity to obtain that information, if it can have a positive impact on its own quality of life. Finally, I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur. We do not share any view on this matter at all, we disagree very much. I would like to commend cleanliness and a good presentation so that you get a good debate, but the points of view we may not agree on yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e682	It has repeatedly been asked by speakers today, and in the debate before, to give an impression of austerity in relation to maternity care and the possibility that women today have of ultrasound. The attitude and the views of the majority in the debate provide no basis for this. It is important to say and establish, because the practice of this is to be done in line with what the majority says, and what the majority writes in the comments. It has been important for SV to clarify this, because it concerns issues that are very important to us. The representative, May Hansen, said instead that SV is committed to the abortion law. We do, and we perceive that this matter is not at all about it. It should therefore be the case that maternity care is to be as it is today, but if someone finds anything abnormal in these studies, the pregnant person should be entitled to follow up the most competent persons in the field. We see that as a great advantage for anyone who is pregnant and needs such follow-up. It is wrong that a doctor who believes it is right and necessary to recommend ultrasound testing before week 18 violates the law. It is incorrect as it says in the newspaper today. So SV goes in to continue this as it is today. Information shall not be withheld, as is stated in the Newspaper today. All information should be given to the pregnant woman, as at present. But I want to say to those who are concerned about the sorting society – that's also SV, and that's what I'm very concerned about: I don't think the most important fight against the sorting society is in these legal provisions. The most important fight against the sorting society is that we manage to create a society that is so that those who are disabled are equal to us others and have full accessibility in all areas of society and life, as we others have. There's a very long way to go. All the parties that sit in the Storting are responsible for that, and there are still insurmountable difficulties for those who are disabled and sick. So what's the difference? Well, one of the differences is that we put a bomb on commercial exploitation of it to tell women that they should go and examine themselves with ultrasound every other week, because it could be something wrong, you should be very anxious all the time. We want to put a bomb for that. It is also necessary, in our view, that women should be able to have power over their seas and not be pushed into a turmoil that is not justified. Then I'll ask that when it comes to cap. 3, is voted on the different paragraphs separately, because I want to vote against § 3-1.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e697	I ask for the floor on two points. One is that, through the debate, there have been repeated and repeated false claims in relation to this with information. A false statement doesn't get it right even though it repeats it many times. Unfortunately, this claim has been repeated not only in this debate, but also in that over the year since we dealt with the communication. It is clear that if one finds in a study something that is an abnormality, or something that one of the medical reasons needs to inform the pregnant woman, one should do so. There is also no study to be conducted with the eyes closed. The main thing in the law is that one of them, according to the purpose of the study, regulates it and defines it as a foetal diagnosis or not. Then there are also two questions from Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. The first question relates to an examination during the ordinary pregnancy check during the 18th week in which the doctor finds a discrepancy. What is quite clear, and I can't see that this is difficult to find answers to in the proposition, is that in that case, the woman will get an offer to be referred to an institution that is approved for foetal diagnostics. This will ensure to the woman that the study being conducted is conducted by competent personnel and not least provides genetic guidance. If the woman does not want to be referred further, it will be in this area that in all other areas there will be no coercion in being referred further. With regard to the doctor’s own ability to assess his/her own competence, it is the overall competence of the institution that determines whether he/she is approved in relation to the conduct of foetal diagnostics. This is a clear case; where foetal diagnostics are to be carried out, it is not only the competence of the individual doctor that will be decisive, but also the competence of the environment for example. to provide genetic guidance. In the second case, it's a little bit harder to give an answer. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen uses the term "will know". But he doesn't say what the pregnant woman wants to know, and that's exactly where the core of the law is, in a way, relative to defining what is foetal diagnostics. And there the Minister of Health replied to what would be the case if this was fetal diagnostics a wanted to get.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e710	In the public debate on the Biotechnology Act, it has sometimes been possible to get the feeling that what is opposed here, on the one hand, is a sort of old-fashioned dark man/leakman crisis or something like that, on the other hand, the modern will to treat people equally and to put technology into practice. I do not want to benefit from this picture, but only raise a case that is a little bad with this description of the lines of division in this case. These are the SV's proposals, No. 7, in the case of who should be able to insemination under the law. So we have a situation in Norway today where we say that it is only in heterophilic marriage and marriage-like conditions that insemination should be possible. And I have to say – without coming up with the kind of characteristics that others have been good at in the public debate – that it's a little disappointing to see when some parties, such as. The working party is so clear that it would be modern in non-discrimination and, on the one hand, that SV would remain on its own on this proposal. Should not this kind of proposal, which is about non-discrimination, be the hallmark of the will to be modern and to make use of technology – for the benefit of people? I also think that when you see proposal No. 1, to ask the Government ‘to initiate a public inquiry into children growing up with gay parents’, a little in connection with this, it is easy to suspect that this proposal has come up after the SV’s proposal, paragraph 1. 7th@item: inlistbox And it's getting extra sad because this is a proposal that doesn't seem to be able to get a majority either. In particular, I hope that the representatives from the Right could say something about why they cannot support this proposal. If it's promoted in the wrong context, or if there's something that can be done with it, they'd have to say it. It is strange, however, that it is a proposal which is supported only by the representatives of the SV, the Workers' Party and the Central Party of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e721	The debate on anonymous sperm donors has been going on for many years in Norway. It has long been clear that our practice is contrary to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, as far as possible, to know its biological origin. This has also been pointed out to Norway in the past by the UN Committee of Experts on the Rights of the Child. We must take the child and the child's rights into account in this debate. Of course, giving the child a right to knowledge at the age of 18 also forces parents to be open about sperm donation. I think that's good. This should not be kept secret from the child. The child's social and legal father will continue to be the most important child. We don't know if the child will choose to look up information about who is his biological father, but having openness around this and giving the child the opportunity I think is right and necessary. The possibility of being able to know if one is the bearer of disease and hereditary suffering should be available to any human being. We need to get a practice now in Norway that is in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. I'm glad that there's a majority for this, because we all in this room by incorporating the Children's Convention into Norwegian law have obliged us to do this. It is incomprehensible that not all parties then support this proposal for a known donor. I am pleased that SV now proposes that it should be opened up for insemination of women living in partnership or in partnership-like relationships. This is an important proposal that gives lesbian women the same right to insemination as women who are married or who are consensual to a man in marital relationships. It is sad that SV stands alone on this proposal, when we know that lesbian women go to Denmark for insemination. We know from studies that children who grow up in partnership or partnership-like relationships have good growth conditions, and we have adopted a step-child adoption. It would be a consequence to allow insemination now. It is particularly disappointing that the Workers' Party, which has been so concerned about women's rights in this matter, does not support this. I ask again, because it surprises me after this debate here today: why has the Labour Party not proposed screening of all women before 12 weeks, if you want women to know? Why will the Workers' Party have a ban on information about the child's sex before 12 weeks, when they want women to be fully entitled to all kinds of information during the ultrasound examination in maternity care? These are two essential questions that the Workers' Party has not answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e732	I took the floor to try as best as I can to give answers to Bjarne Håkon Hanssen's questions about a woman for the 13th week who asked for an ultrasound examination without there being any medical indication for it. I would like to say without irony that at the same time I am a little surprised by the question, and I have to clarify once again: I cannot see from this document and from the comments of the Workers' Party that the Workers' Party has any other legal approach to this than what we have. What Bjarne Håkon Hanssen asks about in many ways is how the Workers' Party should understand the law that they themselves support. There's an important point here. The usual conditions of entry in different areas of specialist health services in Norway, to which the Workers' Party has been an initiator in many ways, is that medical reasons should be provided. In order to be referred to a specialist, medical reasons and referrals from general practice shall be provided. Does the Workers' Party mean that all of a sudden you have to have a completely different regime because this is about ultrasound? Or you're going to have the same regime as for other types of specialized research, whether it's about X-ray, computer tomography, magnetic tomography, etc.? Because that's really what this is added up to. I have seen in the public debate that it has been outlined that there is a legal ban on ultrasound testing if there is no reference or should be medical reasons. If so, I would like to ask: Where does this document contain the prohibition? The point here is that if the Workers' Party believes that any woman should be able to go to any place and say that she will have an ultrasound examination and that it should be refundable, then the Workers' Party must propose it if it is to be adopted. But this has not been done by the Workers' Party. The Labour Party does not propose any other approach to these issues than that proposed by the majority, with the exception of § 4-4. And what the Workers' Party proposes in Section 4-4 is to limit the information to be provided to the couple, despite the fact that the Workers' Party has repeatedly been out in the public debate and said that it is the majority who want to limit that information. So if there's something that's needed here, it's to clarify what the Workers' Party is actually going to do here today when we're going to vote over this. If the Workers' Party is against this approach, I strongly advise against voting for it, as it stands in the setting, because that's the fact when you read the setting and see where the Workers' Party stands. I want those clarifications from Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. And then I'd say there's no law against ultrasound in week 13. However, the fact that the study is to be refunded or to be referred to if medical conditions exist is a practice to be applied only in all other areas of the health care system, or is it to be applied in this field as in other areas? Let's not make this harder than it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e743	The development of ultrasonic technology has come very far, and disease and anomalies in the foetus can now be detected quite early in pregnancy. Every pregnant woman will very often think, Is everything all right with what I carry? And in recent years, medical practice has been such that if the woman feels uneasy and asks for an ultrasound examination in 12–13. a week — perhaps before it too — such a study is carried out. The Minister of Health now has a very concrete and clear answer to the question from Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. If a woman shows up with her doctor for pregnancy control and asks for an ultrasound check, and there are no medical reasons for this, this woman does not get this done by her doctor, in case the doctor violates the law. This is now very clear, and it is very good that we have clarified this in the debate that has now gone out there. And if the woman is referred to this inquiry at her request, she will be punished on the purse. It's quite serious. It is discrimination against women, and it is a violation of the practice that has been in the control of pregnancy over several years. I cannot believe that it will be possible to practice this law as it now exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e752	The representative Nesvik asks questions about the Christian People's Party's human vision. I think the duel we had here just shows that the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have different human views and different values. Today's practice of egg destruction is ethically difficult. The aim is therefore to reduce the number of fertilised eggs that are destroyed, fertilize fewer eggs and introduce fewer eggs. It has always been our Christian People's Party's goal that one should not fertilize more eggs than those from which it is conceived. Development also seems to go in that direction. Then Nesvik says that it must be difficult for the Christian People's Party to stand here today and see that abortion laws are accepted. It has been said by so many now that this debate is not about abortion laws. One knows that there are people behind the plural setting who have a different view of today's abortion law, but there are also followers of today's abortion law. So this debate must now be able to separate itself from the debate on bio/gen technology. There are two wide-ranging debates, and we in the Christian People's Party still have our views on today's abortion law, as we have always had.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e761	The representative, Ballo, made a big number of the fact that we have not tabled proposals to amend the legal text. I'm going to try to answer his questions, as opposed to Ballo, who didn't answer my questions. In the legal text § 4-1 Definition there is a very narrow mention of ultrasound examinations: ‘Ultrasound studies in general maternity care are not regarded as foetal diagnostics for the purposes of the first subparagraph and are therefore not covered by this Act with the exception of Sections 4 to 5.’ As in any legislative work, the majority have also needed to define what is meant by general maternity care. Among other things, the majority have emphasised that there should be a full opportunity for ultrasonic applications earlier than 17-18. if there is a medical indication. It is not stated in the legal text, but the law should of course be understood, because the setting specifies that the law should be understood that way. In the same way, the Workers' Party can live with the legal wording, but specifies in the setting our way of understanding the text. We believe that there is a need to clarify that there should be an opportunity for a woman to have an ultrasound examination carried out in e.g. 13th week, although no medical indication is available. And I feel that there's a disagreement. I do not need to polish anything more against the representative, at least not in a three-minute post, but I feel that there is a disagreement. Similarly, I think that the representative Bent Höie, as opposed to Ballo, answered the question and made it clear that if a woman does not want to be referred to an approved post-natal diagnostics institution, the investigating doctor in the Middle Norwegian Hospital – I use it as an example – will not have the opportunity to proceed with several ultrasound examinations if the hospital does not apply first, and will then be approved as an approved post-natal diagnostics institution. It's also a clear answer; we disagree, and that's one of the examples that we disagree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e776	Unfortunately, the debate has been somewhat shattered by some false claims about what really lies in the proposition and in the setting. Most seriously, the clear trends that have been out of this room are to produce it so that the Government and the majority decide to refuse women information on the outcome of an ultrasonic study and that the claim has coverage in the proposition and in the setting. It doesn't. You can look up page 76 in the proposition and read what it says; it's just not right. I also think that the debate has been in a situation where there is a need to stamp positions, which we should actually have been in front of us. There are strong terms used, and I believe for my part that the questions we are discussing here are so demanding that we should deal with the factual arguments, and not stamp opponents like fundamentalists, racists, etc. I think that is a disgrace in the debate. But when that is said, I am pleased that Odelsting's majority subscribes to the Government's bill on all essential points. I see this as a brand day at work to secure ethical frameworks around this important part of our social development. I also see that the majority in this way clearly states that technology should not dictate legislation, but that legislation should set a framework for technology. At the same time, it is important that, in the future, a strong emphasis is placed on creating a development in this area that provides a basis for clarity for health professionals in their roles, which provides good information to parents and women affected by this and which does not contribute to confusion about what is actually the will of the Storing. I will take responsibility for that, along with the professional authorities who will follow this up. We want to develop guidelines for maternity care, as we have notified, and we want to keep the Storting informed, as I promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e787	I have to say that the Biotechnology Act is more than diagnostics, but the debate has been very much about it, and that is why I must first of all address that issue. First, one must be able to state that all information is to be given to the woman, as it is today, and the basis for that information is to be best professionally available. It was already established in the processing of the biotechnology notification, it says and is also partly reproduced in the context of the processing of the law now. Then there's reason to remember that we have an abortion law, a law of self-determined abortion adopted by a majority of the legislative assembly here. We still have it, and the woman can take advantage of it when it comes to abortion. That's why it's not possible to connect these two things to each other, that one should almost depend on ultrasound or foetal diagnostics in relation to the law of self-determined abortion. I'd like to, among other things, The representative of May Hansen recalled the 1995 Consensus Conference, which agreed that ultrasound testing should be offered to all pregnant women as part of the general monitoring of pregnancy in week 17/18. Furthermore, the Consensus Conference also said that ultrasound should be offered before this time on medical indications. An ultrasound examination without medical indications may be offered and carried out, but without reimbursement. I have to say, I get a little confused about the Workers' Party. As several representatives have pointed out, no changes of a legal nature have been introduced in the handling of this. If the Workers' Party believes so strongly that part of what has been said here, you should have made some changes, among other things. that all pregnancy/ultra-sound examinations must be free of charge, that screening must be carried out at any time during pregnancy, for example, not to worry about the financial aspects of the pregnancy, and that reimbursement should be provided in any case. Instead, it is reasonable for the Workers' Party, among other things. is in a majority of the votes cast, which reads as follows: ‘This majority considers that advertising for ultrasonic examination not medically justified shall not take place.’ There has to be something real policy that's in this as well. And when the representative May Hansen was so concerned that both the majority and the minority should clarify what is the basis of the law, and what is in the law's preprocessor, I agree with that, but among other things. This note shows that the Workers' Party is concerned about these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e805	In general, I'm going to have to say what I'm now saying. I don't think it's just the majority who think that the individual human being has his own value regardless of physical or mental status. I believe it is unworthy of Stortinget to push this debate forward. I know no one who has raised such a distinction as here drawn up. A fundamental principle of patient treatment is the right to self-determination, including in the phase involving a woman’s pregnancy. I react when someone from this pulpit is still talking about a sorting society. I do not accept, either on my own behalf or on behalf of my party, the Workers' Party, to be graduated on a scale, where someone determines that their own position on restrictions on, for example, ultrasound must be more morally or ethically high. According to Norwegian law, it is the woman who, through her self-determination, makes the choices she wants. She has the right to do so. The problem that this debate has solved is that by defining foetal diagnostics, the majority will introduce a distinction between practical ultrasound examination and the objective of ultrasound examination. It is very difficult to understand how this distinction is to be practised, as was illustrated by the Council of State response, and not least by the representative Ola D. Glütvold now said. We have now requested that the Government's proposals for guidance on diagnostics and the use of ultrasound be submitted to the Storting for information. These are not empty words, there are rather weighty reasons why it happens. You have to take that inward, but now I don't have time to go into this. So I want to answer very briefly at least one of the challenges of May Hansen. The working party does not support any general screening of pregnant women, but we maintain that the woman herself has the right to decide which test she should have. This has underpinned our whole attitude to this law in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e824	John I. Alvheim has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e827	First to the Council of State. The Minister of Health said he meant to tell us that this law does not restrict the information of the woman. In previous articles he confirmed that this is the case. The woman who visits her pregnant doctor and asks for an ultrasound examination will not get it if there are no medical reasons for it, or the woman should be punished on the purse in case of punishment for obtaining the information she is looking for. That's the one. But what I took the floor for was the statements of this pulpit from Per Steinar Osmundnes. The Health Minister said we should not stamp each other's positions. It's okay. But to stand here on the pulpit of Odelstinget and tell the assembly that the Christian People's Party has a better view of man than the Advance Party, it's quite daring. It is so slow that I get hurt far into the heart by hearing these kind of statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e834	Once again, since it is clearly needed, let me make clear what is clearly stated in the proposition, and which has stood there all the time through the debate that has taken place in the public sphere between the trade unions and in the press: ‘However, if deviations are detected during a general pregnancy check, the Ministry considers that it is very important that the woman be informed of the findings made and then referred to an establishment approved for the purpose of performing foetal diagnostics, which also has the competence to provide any genetic guidance.’ This opinion also applies in the case that the woman is given an ultrasound examination at times other than in the ordinary study of 17-18. a week, which is otherwise not a screening survey, but an offer. Let me then turn to the representative Alvheim's opposition to Per Steinar Osmundnes to say the following: I don't think either the representative Osmundnes or anyone else has stated that one party or one grouping in this room has a more high-level human vision than another party. I don't think anyone here wants to express that kind of thing. But I think the debate has nevertheless shown that the discussion breaks on quite deep water in terms of the perception of what a person is. What was the starting point of the representative Osmundnes was the view of what an unborn human being is, and what a germinal human life is. We must be able to endure hearing that we have different views of the moral status of the fetus and the moral status of a fertilized egg, without being interpreted and understood as an expression of having a more or less high-level view of it. At least I don't think so. On the other hand, I think that tendencies to stamp each other can also be thought to work painfully. We should all seek to avoid this in a debate that is so important, as fundamental and as valuable as this, after all, is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e850	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e858	The odelsting should then go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e865	Seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Asmund Kristoffersen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposed the No. 2 and 3, by Asmund Kristoffersen on behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, proposals No. 4 and 5, by Asmund Kristoffersen on behalf of the Labour Party, proposal No. 6, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No. 7, by Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative in a public inquiry into children growing up with gay parents.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Labour Party and the Advance Party, reads: ‘The Government asks after two years of practicalisation of the new Biotechnology Act, the Government evaluates the law and its scope and whether it has obtained sufficient flexibility to operate within a subject area that is undergoing major change. ‘... Proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to open the possibility of egg donation in Norway. The Government is requested to carry out a survey of egg donation practices in other countries and to make suggestions on how this can be carried out in Norway.’» These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. Olav Gunnar Ballo – for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e903	I have two comments. This applies to § 1-2 and § 2-14. In the Committee's own comments, the proposals have been put forward with the correct wording, but when you see the proposal for a decision on pages 46 and 47, it seems that the printing process has made a mistake with regard to the two proposals. It is stated in the proposal for a law on page 46 under § 1-2: ‘The law applies to the human medical use of biotechnology in humans, etc.’, while the text itself reads ‘human medicine use of biotechnology, etc.’, but not ‘on humans’ — it is unnecessary for it to be stated twice. That is what is at the forefront of the text, which is the correct rendering of the proposal. In the case of §2-14, page 47, there has also been an error in the pressure. Paragraph 2-14, fourth line, states: ‘can only be made in special cases in the case of severe gender-related illness’. There the word «hereditary» has come out – it has to read «serious hereditary genital disease».
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e914	The President assumed that there was good reason to believe that there was an error in the press. Of course, it has to be corrected. The President will propose that as far as possible, paragraphs of the proposals from the various fractions be collected, as well as the paragraphs that the different fractions have been notified that they will go against. – This is how it will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e1452	For § 2-2, 2-3 and 2-5 there is a proposal from the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox There will first be a vote between the proposal of the Socialist Left Party, which applies to §§2-2 and 2-3, and the respective paragraphs of the option. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Act on the Human Medical Use of Biotechnology etc. the following provisions shall be replaced by the following:§ 2-2:Requirements for life-formAssisted conception can only be carried out on women who are married, living in registered partnerships or who are cohabitants in marital or partnership-like relationships.§ 2-3:Conditions for inseminationAssisted insemination to a woman who is married or who is cohabiting with a man in marital relations can only take place when the man is infertile or has or is suffering from severe hereditary disease.Assisted insemination may take place in exceptional cases if the woman is suffering from severe hereditary genital disease, as described above. §2-13.Assisted insemination may take place in a woman living in a registered partnership or partnership-like relationship.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e1487	Then there is a separate vote over the proposal from the Socialist Left Party to Section 2-5, second paragraph, first sentence. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 2-5, second paragraph, first sentence: Before commencing treatment, the treating physician shall ensure that there is written consent from both parties.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e1508	I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e1513	Then there are 15 voices for and 55 against the proposal. With these votes, the proposal of the Socialist Left has been rejected. We are now going to vote on proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party, and the recommended paragraphs that the Progress Party would like to vote against. There will first be a vote between proposal No. 6, from the Progress Party, with the exception of § 4-4, second paragraph, and the respective paragraphs of the Recommendation. Proposal No. 6, with the exception of the second paragraph of § 4-4, reads: «In the Act on the Human Medical Use of Biotechnology etc. the following provisions shall be read as follows:§ 1-2, second paragraph:The law does not apply to research.§ 4-1, second paragraph: Ultrasonic studies in general maternity care shall not be considered to be foetal diagnostics within the meaning of the first subparagraph.§ 5-1:DefinitionFor the purposes of this Act, genetic studies are referred to as DNA testing.§ 5-2:The use of genetic studies shall only be used for medical purposes for diagnostic, therapeutic or disease prevention purposes.§ 5-5, first paragraph:In the case of genetic studies to diagnose disease, the person examined shall be given genetic guidance both before, during and after the examination is carried out.§ 5-7, first paragraph shall read: Genetic examination to make disease diagnosis shall not be carried out on children until the child reaches the age of 16 years, unless the examination can demonstrate conditions which, by way of treatment, are liable to prevent or reduce pathogenitious pathogenity, the use of which is prohibited in humans, or the use of which is prohibited in humans have received from the human being treated, or the human being treated. Except for the prohibition in the first and second subparagraphs, healthcare professionals who need the information for diagnostic, therapeutic or disease prevention purposes are.§ 6-1:DefinitionFor the purposes of this Act, gene therapy means the transfer of genetic material to human cells for medical purposes.§ 6-2:Requirements for gene therapyGentherapy can only be used for the treatment of diseases that seriously impair the quality of life or to prevent such disease from occurring.§ 7-1:Approval of establishmentsMedical use of biotechnology, etc. that require authorisation may only take place in public and private undertakings specifically authorised by the supervisory authorities for the purpose in question.§ 7-2:Reporting obligationAny activity authorised under Section 7-1 shall report in writing to the supervisory authority on the activity.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e1603	The proposal from the Progress Party to Section 4-4, second paragraph, is then contested. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 4-4, second paragraph: In the case of foetal diagnostics, genetic guidance shall also be provided for the woman or the couple.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e1621	The points of the recommendation from the Committee which the Progress Party wishes to vote against are then rejected. It applies to §§2-4, 2-5 other paragraphs, 4-2, 4-5, 4-6, 5-3, 5-4, 5-6 and 6-3.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e1633	There will then be a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Act on the Human Medical Use of Biotechnology etc. the following provisions shall be added: § 2-7:The identity of the sperm donor, the child and the couple Health professionals must ensure that the identity of the sperm donor is kept secret. A sperm donor may not be informed of the identity of the couple or of the child. § 2-10:Electoral selection The treating physician chooses the appropriate sperm donor. § 2-11: Storage and import of semen Only institutions which have access to assisted fertilisation under Section 7-1 may freeze or otherwise store semen. § 4-4:Genetic guidance and information Before performing foetal diagnostics, the woman or the couple shall be informed that the study is voluntary, that the study can reveal what the study can reveal and what its consequences can be for the child, the woman, the couple and the family.» Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced with the respective paragraphs of the option. In the case of §2-11, the proposal is an alternative to the first and second paragraphs of the recommendation to §2-11.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e1686	The points in the recommendation from the Committee that the Workers' Party has informed them that they will vote against them are so reprehensible. Paragraphs 2 to 8 and 2 to 9 apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e1698	So it's going to be a bit of an alternative between proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, and the respective paragraphs of the Committee's recommendation. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Act on the Human Medical Use of Biotechnology etc. the following provisions shall be added: § 2-1(d): pre-implantation diagnosis: genetic examination of a fertilised egg prior to introduction into the uterus. §2-14:Preimplantation diagnosis A fertilised egg may only be genetically examined in special cases in the case of a serious heritable disease without treatment options, cf. § 2-4. The king may lay down detailed conditions for access to pre-implantation diagnostics.The examination of a fertilised egg for the selection of the child's sex shall be prohibited, except in exceptional cases in the case of severe hereditary genital disease. § 5-9, second paragraph: When it is documented that a patient has or is disposed of a hereditary disease, the patient may decide for himself whether to inform affected relatives about this. § 5-9, fourth paragraph: However, if the patient cannot or will not consent to the health care professional informing the relatives concerned, health professionals may do so if the conditions of the fifth subparagraph are met and the disease is approved by the department after the seventh paragraph.’;» In the case of the Committee's recommendation to § 2-14, the representative Ballo has taken note of the fact that the word «hereditary» falls into the second paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e1745	The paragraphs of the recommendation that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have notified them of their opposition will be so horrified. This applies to §§ 2-11, third paragraph, 2-12, 3-2 and 4-3. The President will return to Section 3-1.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e1757	Paragraphs 3 to 1 are so bitter that the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the representative Karin Andersen have warned that they will vote against them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e1769	The paragraphs, the joints and the points of the recommendation from the Committee on which there are currently no votes, are then rejected, with the correction in section 1.2.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e1779	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e1792	No – can we take voting with the voting system?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e1799	Can the President take this vote again?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e1806	Then the title of the law and the promise will be repeated.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e1818	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-18-lower.ana.ud1811e1833	The recommendation of the Committee on B and C will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
