ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower.ana.ud610e40	The President will propose the election of two presidents of Odelstingen’s meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower.ana.ud610e45	I propose Sigvald Upbebøen Hansen and Grethe Fossli.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower.ana.ud610e50	Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Grethe Fossli are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Grethe Fossli are unanimously elected as chairpersons of the Odelstinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower.ana.ud610e58	The President can already inform Odelstinget that it is going to be a late evening meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower.ana.ud610e72	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 30 minutes, Advance Party 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 20 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. In addition, the representative Simonsen shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower.ana.ud610e85	I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for its constructive and good cooperation in its work on this matter. The proposal for a new law on independent schools is an important contribution to ensuring diversity and freedom of choice in schools. The law is a contribution to reward local involvement and a contribution to challenge and thus strengthen the public school. The public school will continue to be the cornerstone of Norwegian school policy, and it is within the public school that the vast majority of students will also find their place in the future. This law aims at helping to establish and operate independent schools so that pupils and parents can choose schools other than those of the public. The majority also want to state that parental rights are fundamental in a democracy and that they will be strengthened by this bill. In general, the Government's proposals form the basis for the Committee's setting up. However, the majority in the Committee have seen the need to make some adjustments, and we have placed some orders with the Government. For example, it was proposed to wind down grant rule No. 1 and No 2 to private schools, § 26. The majority have believed that this type of school represents an important offer for an vulnerable group in society and have wanted the funding of the schools currently under the grant regulation to be maintained. Furthermore, the majority assume that for those schools already approved under these rules, proposals for new legislation do not involve any change in relation to the conditions set for approval. The majority of the Committee wanted to point out the need to ensure continuity and equality in the approval of fresh oils. The majority have therefore considered that this approval must be placed in an organisational form outside the ministry. This will be an important contribution to ensuring professional and non-political treatment of individual cases. The majority see the need for a legislative change to include secondary schools. The majority have also noted that there has been an increasing interest in private alternatives in higher education, and the majority therefore ask the Government to come back with a bill of approval entitled to grants from private and secondary schools during the spring 2004 season. The majority have also proposed some adjustments related to the competence requirements of teaching staff to ensure that schools representing an alternative can recognise alternative competences. We agree that there should be a special competence with additions, that the competence requirement is important for quality, and that there should be a common basic attitude in that it should be equal to the competence of teachers in independent and public schools. The majority of the Committee has agreed that the new law should enter into force on 1 October 2003. It is in order to ensure that the applications currently in the department, which are approved by new law, will be able to start up as planned. As a result, a number of fresh schools will be able to accommodate students from the autumn of 2004. I would particularly like to raise one matter from the Committee's comments. On one point, the Committee has failed to form a majority of the Government's proposals. These are proposals for sections 3 to 5, which deal with specific training for pupils from linguistic minorities. The members of the Committee from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left express support for the view that students from linguistic minorities should have equal rights to specific training in independent schools as in public schools. We are familiar with the problems that have occurred in specific training for pupils from linguistic minorities in schools approved under the Private School Act, and are therefore satisfied with the legislative wording of the Government in this area. It is also appropriate to stress that several health schools have already chosen to offer specific training to linguistic minorities today, and that most hearing bodies support the Government's proposals at this point. That the Progress Party does not find being able to support that point, I think it is unfortunate, but not surprising. It was quite surprising, however, that the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left have not even taken the trouble of writing a note on linguistic minorities. This is a very important area, and in a city like Oslo this concerns a lot of children. The result that the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left do not support the Government's proposal may be that private schools approved under the law of today, where the majority of students need specific training, are not supported in the same way. I really don't think that the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party want to contribute to that, and I hope that this debate can bring us a little bit further into that area. So I'd like to say a little bit about the Left's positions on the law. For the left, the public school will always be the most important. We also want to free public schools, gain more freedom of choice and more diversity. It's important to do it now. It is important that the steps taken by the Government, with freedom from public school, come at the same time as this law. But this also has to do with human rights, seen from two angles. Firstly, it is the parental right, the right of parents to choose a different education for their children from that of the public, but it also applies to the rights of children, quality requirements and children's rights in the child conventions. For us, quality is the most important thing in this law, that you put quality requirements in a completely different way from what you did in the old private school law. That's why control becomes very important, how you want to use this law. I think we have a lot to learn from the Swedish and Danish controls. The Swedish control of their fresh oils has focused a lot on money use, one can almost guarantee that there is not one penny too much in lunch money, but one has not entered the content itself, the background, and what offers are given. We are also, in principle, very sceptical about the Danish model of control, which the Progress Party has called for, where only parents have control. There are two concepts of human rights, which are underlying here, both parental rights and children's rights, and children's rights are not just to be checked by parents. I have to say that I am really very sorry for the symbolic power that is included in this law. Today it's at the base of 2 pst. by students attending schools approved under the Private School Act. Maybe there'll be more now, maybe there might be a doubling as well, but then we're still just talking about 4 pst. And that's a degree of inequality that I just think is a strength for a society. When I was a school principal in Oslo, we really tried to get bigger and more thorough tests in public school. We actually tried to get Mosse Jørgensen's dream school to fit into the public system. That was impossible! I think that all the thoughts that good educators, good educators with great visions for the future, want to develop the school, have to get this room to develop the new ways of working, because we can't do that in public school as it is today. It also has with parents the right to choose away from what is a little queer than the other, to do – to be allowed to have the normal. I've visited a lot of schools, also a lot of schools approved by the private school law, and when I hear people say that this increases the differences among people, I don't think they've been out in these schools. Those who place their children in the private schools we have today, whether it's in the stone schools, in the montessori schools or in St. Sunniva, do it because they want to try something different for their child, because the school they went to before doesn't fit well enough. As the headmaster at the montessori school in Oslo says, they feel almost like a special school, because they have a lot of organized education for children who want to work with their parents in completely different ways than they've been given in public. I want this law far from increasing the differences, but that it should actually be involved and contribute to innovation, innovation and other ways of working. But if we're really going to do that, I have an intense desire and a prayer to the Workers' Party and SV to turn against linguistic minorities, which is a very important step not to increase the differences. We see in Oslo today that a school like St. Sunniva is very capable in terms of linguistic minorities. There is a large proportion of linguistic minorities, but almost no one takes Norwegian as B language. This means that they have a tradition and have developed good practices, because there has been a multilingual school from the very beginning, which is a good way to learn a lot from in public schools, but they must also have the opportunity to develop this further. And if they're going to make it, they're going to have to have the financial basis to do it. Now it seems – through comments in the newspaper – that some of my prayers may be heard. And I'm very happy if we get there, because then we're starting to get a foundation for a law of free school that can give all students freedom of choice without increasing the differences, and that can actually give children a quality guarantee of what is being presented, which means that Norway has a law that is much better than any of our neighbouring countries, for example, have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower.ana.ud610e121	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower.ana.ud610e124	From the majority, private schools are elevated with reference to human rights and international conventions. Can the representative Schei Grande refer to strong international pressure requiring the amendment of today's private school law, which the Workers' Party believes guarantees the parental right to alternative education and religious freedom? A strong and comprehensive argument put forward by the political leadership of the ministry and of the Right is that competition will improve the quality of public schools. Competition is healthy, it's called. The representative, Skei Grande, stated in an interview with the newspaper Education that she had little faith in the Right's arguments about more competition. It's kind of alarming in itself. But in that case, what is the reason why the Left has accepted a proposal that the Workers' Party sees as the exclusive privatisation of the public common school, without even requiring that there should be an alternative educational system?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower.ana.ud610e135	The pressure we have from the outside may well be that we have the most old-fashioned social-democratic law of at least our neighboring countries in this area, that we are very much lagging behind in school development, and we are also starting to get quite a bit of pressure when it comes to teachers and parents wanting to try other things. The left's starting point here is not competition. We have a different starting point. Our argument is that we believe that by releasing people with new ideas, new ways of working and new ways of thinking, we get better products. The right and the left are two different parties, and we have different arguments related to our positions. But to draw the lines today, it's e.g. the right of parents to take up post-secondary education related to a primary school which is completed, one of the main reasons for the Left to apply for a new post-secondary school law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower.ana.ud610e144	There are two things: I can trigger the voltage around § 3-5. The Progress Party wants to act liberally. We subsidize § 3-5 so that stand-alone schools have the same framework conditions as public schools. The entry from the representative Skei Grande is also an entry from the left. She refers to the importance of control and focuses on the need to look at schemes both in Denmark and Sweden. From the Progress Party we are concerned to be able to do more things at the same time. We also want public oversight, we are clear that we want it in a special way, but we are also proposing to give parental supervision to elected representatives, as has been the practice in Denmark for many years, i.e. both a and a solution. The left in their programme states that they want schools to be self-governed ‘in interaction between teachers, parents, students and elected people’. Why won't the Left agree to try out a system that gives parents more influence in school, even in the way that they are given supervisory authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower.ana.ud610e155	Now I was really happy that the Progress Party can show liberality in the case of § 3-5. I do not understand their primary position, but § 3-5 ensures a very important right for a very large number of children. So to this with parental supervision. We in the Left want maritime schools. We carried it out in Oslo, but did not give any of the parties a majority alone. We believe that when teachers, parents, students and the municipality sit down together, none of them can have a veto right. The good solutions are found when these groups sit down together. I believe that experience in Denmark and partly in Sweden has shown us that parental supervision is not necessarily a good solution. We, who represent the community, also have a desire for what education should provide – not just the parents. It is in cooperation between parents and the community that good solutions are found for the children. For some of the experiences we have from, for example: ethnic minorities who build schools, I find that parental supervision does not show that we get good solutions for those children.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower.ana.ud610e164	The main feature of the rapporteur was strange. First, he said that private schools would strengthen public schools. One must have quite a lot of imagination to say that they will strengthen the public school, when we know that they will be financed by extracts from the municipal schools. The rapporteur said that she does not believe this will happen on such a very large scale. But then she said that this law must be implemented from 1 October, so that a number of schools can be established from 1 August 2004. Then she went on to say – in response to a reply from Vidar Bjørnstad – that this is driven by the parents and teachers. Where did she get that? During hearings, none of us have come to the conclusion that there are teachers and parents who have driven this forward, rather the opposite. So the main feature was a lot of strange statements, and my question is, how will the private school law strengthen the public school? What arguments exist for this? I know she sees them – and you have to have a lot of imagination to be able to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower.ana.ud610e175	I don't know which one of us is strange, because Rolf Reikvam has started all his lines today with that post he's taking a line on, is strange. So I don't know who finally gets weird. The point of strengthening public schools is that it needs to develop. New things have to be tried out. Within the framework of public schools, new things are not always tried out. When Mosse Jørgensen has a dream about a classless school, it is not possible to implement within the public sphere. I've tried! And that's the requirements we've met -- that maybe SV haven't met. We've had Mosse Jørgensen's phones. I've spoken to the parents' groups, to them at Skagerak and to them at Kongsberg. There they have a dream of getting to a school that is international, which allows them to attract skills, so Kongsberg can evolve as an industrial city. I think they should be allowed to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower.ana.ud610e182	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower.ana.ud610e186	When representatives of the majority held a press conference after the matter had been settled in the Committee, it was expressed their satisfaction that the minorities had now finally been consulted and that freedom of choice could finally become a reality. This is very descriptive of what has been the majority’s objective in terms of changes to the private school law. It is rare that I have experienced such strong contradictions of principle and as different perceptions of reality as in this matter. For the first time after the war, we've got a school policy that's at full speed away from an inclusive school. And I ask, what's been the driving force behind the majority's commitment to open up to the release of private schools? Is this a wish from the People's Deep? According to the Government, the changes that are now being adopted will open up competition between private and public schools, thus creating better quality in public schools. This is a vision in which the Workers' Party strongly disagrees. Today's high school is one of the few arenas where most of today's students meet. It has an important role as a meeting place for children with different backgrounds. Only a common public school can ensure such community and diversity and provide everyone with a good and equivalent education, regardless of background. We have no faith that competition between schools and students could serve as a basis for higher quality. Policy is essentially a matter of choice. We experience extensive cutbacks in the field of education: in the school leisure scheme, in adult education, in Norwegian training for asylum seekers, in health services for students – just to name a few. The release of private schools is thus at the expense of upgrading our common public school, and there is a recognition that the majority has to take inwards. I believe at least that our voters are beginning to get the reality that will eventually also report through clear results in elections. It's enough to deal with improvements in public school. This is not solved by setting up more private schools, transferring corporate culture to school and one-sided focus on competition, efficiency and performance. We can learn a lot from business, but the school is not a business and can't be made an arena where you make money. We want to choose the primary school, where most of the students go. The privatisation instruments of the majority overshadow efforts to address the major challenges of education policy. In the end, we get a School Norway that is two divided, depending on the students' social background, residence and religion. This is also the experience in Sweden, the Government’s private schools exhibition window. Studies show that the increase in the number of pupils in private schools leads to the sorting of pupils by background and religion, and that most parents have higher education. Another factor is that less than half of teachers in private schools do not have education. There is no doubt that the future of the school depends on common promises and priorities. The fight for a good school is to be conducted across all policy lines. But this is about resources. Governments are constantly pointing out that Norway is the country that spends the most resources at school, and thus chooses to bet on a free play of private schools, with the slogan ‘More for money’. It will be the guiding principle of education policy. The Ministry and the Council of State say that there is no contradiction between investing in private schools and investing in public schools. At the same time, we know that the entire 56 pst. of municipalities this year reduces one or more services to bring the economy to a head – 55 pst. Chicks in primary school. This does not happen because our local politicians want to cut school. There is no doubt that the goal of all parties is a better school, but we disagree very much about the path to the goal. Will freedom of choice create a better school for children? Nope, rather the opposite. We'll get a breakdown in A and B schools. But it will take time before we notice the final results. The government has argued in many ways for changes in School-Norway on the basis of the fact that municipalities will have greater freedom to choose as they choose. But is this reflected in the government's draft law? I would say that the majority's proposal weakens local democracy. There will be stricter requirements for documentation on the consequences of setting up private schools and municipalities will no longer have the same possibility of exercising supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower.ana.ud610e209	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower.ana.ud610e212	I could not avoid noticing to the representative Bekkelem Orheim's announcement that the resource situation in the school is now significantly different than it has been in the past. There has been a stable resource situation in school in the last five years, and I wonder where her data comes from. The second and more fundamental question is why the Workers' Party has now suddenly become a hot champion of the existing private school law, giving freedom of choice only to those who have a special religious or pedagogical view. Why can't we allow others to choose schools other than public schools? And why did the Workers' Party now propose to cut over 400 million by the 2003 budget. kr in transfers to private schools if you are in favour of the law that is, when that money was simply needed to comply with the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower.ana.ud610e219	It is possible that the Right does not like it, but the truth is that the Workers' Party has been for today's private school law, which actually means that parents have the opportunity to make a choice. The situation is that as long as the majority of the Storting is not willing to add more money to the total pot, we have to choose. And through the disposals made in the time when the Bondevik II government has been sitting, we see that a very clear choice has been made – one chooses to give more to the municipalities, who are going to bet in the public primary school, and one chooses to add more money into the pot of the private schools, on the grounds that we have to do this because it is required by law. In the choice between what to put on in the future, the Labour Party believes it is important to give the almost 600 000 children who go to a public school, a better day-to-day school. We have to do a twist for the benefit of this group. There's a lot of difference between the Right Party and the Working Party. The Labour Party is entitled to the parental rights of all parents who have children in public schools, as opposed to the Right, who are only entitled to parental rights for parents who have children in private school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower.ana.ud610e228	The Labour Party is unequivocal in its rejection that parents and children should be strengthened in their right to choose a school. The Workers' Party justifies its attacks with fear descriptions from the situation in Sweden, and allegedly uses Swedish LO as a source material. Swedish schoolwork surveys of 4,700 Swedish parents show that 90 pst. consider that parents and children should be able to choose schools themselves. Even the social democrats in Sweden say: «We think that all students will have to choose school». Are they wrong? Are the Swedish parents so concerned about being able to choose school? Are Swedish social democrats wrong, who are also concerned that parents and students are free to choose school?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower.ana.ud610e235	First, maybe I'll take it as a compliment from the Blackevik representative if he believes that the Workers' Party is unambiguous in its view of the private schools. But then to the question: there are different studies of the experience that have been gained in Sweden. We've seen very clearly that the majority of the committee chooses not to look at those experiences. Whether it's social democrats or conservatives who believe it, it doesn't matter to me if it means that we can't make solutions that are in the best interests of the large majority. Then we have to be able to change and correct the course. I think that the ministry, but also the majority of the committee, who have instructed the Council of State on the point after point – as we can see from the proposals – has actually failed to go into part of the realities to which the Swedish authorities and researchers can refer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower.ana.ud610e242	It is surprising that the Workers' Party presents itself as a follower of today's private school law. That's good in many ways. However, the credibility of this conversion may be called into question. Historically, the Workers' Party has violated the law. The working party has also refused to approve several schools. Economic grants have had to be withdrawn from the labour party councils. And in its argument here today, the Workers' Party clearly points out its scepticism to the principles of today's private school law by using terms such as: the diversity is a threat, not establishing more health schools, the risk of disaggregation in A and B schools. These are also potential dangers under today's private school law. Does this mean that the Labour Party believes in its own argument? The working party will now approve schools based on alternative pedagogics. Is the Workers' Party ready to approve new schools based on Freinet pedagogy, on Reggio Emilia pedagogy and on Waldorf pedagogy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower.ana.ud610e249	First, I would like to say that there is no reversal on the part of the Workers' Party. On the contrary, I would like to say that to the extent that a party has faced a conversion, it must be a Christian People's Party. It is possible that the representative Lyngstad does not remember his own national meeting a few weeks ago, but I believe that very many of them brought with them the perceptive statements that appeared in the media, as well as the clear resolutions that were adopted at his own national meeting. This is about his own national meeting wanting a strong public school policy. Then it is alarming that Arne Lyngstad in dealing with this matter has actually gone further than Kristin Klemet himself has done. I think that reality will gradually become fully committed to the Christian People's Party's own foundation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower.ana.ud610e256	So the chord change is over. The scheduled time for the morning meeting is also late. Odelstinget interrupts the negotiations and a new meeting will be held at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
