ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e40	The President will propose the election of two presidents of Odelstingen’s meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e45	I suggest Grethe Fossli and Gunnar Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e50	Grethe Fossli and Gunnar Halvorsen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Grethe Fossli and Gunnar Halvorsen are unanimously elected presidents of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e64	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e71	An overall justice ministry supports the proposals that have been promoted by the Government. These are proposals which essentially concern the group accounting system, the simplification of merger rules and the issue of pledges in shares of public limited-liability companies. In the case of group accounts schemes, it also opens here for group accounts schemes for enterprises and groups that have different national affiliations, i.e. a foreign company such as: has subsidiaries in Norway. In this way, you can notice that you are more concerned about making things simpler and more appropriate for cross-border enterprises than the EU itself has been able to achieve. It would be right for the boards of the Norwegian subsidiaries to be responsible for the non-abuse of this group accounting system or to be used for the improper collection of funds by companies. With regard to the simplification of merger rules, it is clear that the use of interim balance sheets is being opened up and simplified procedures are being provided for the transmission of documents, but at the same time we point out that information should be provided that these documents can be sent if the shareholders consider it desirable. So finally, mortgages on shares in public limited-liability companies, where there has been something uncertain about how the rules have been understood. And it is made clear that it is possible to take a pledge in shares, but it is suggested that companies can impose a pledge prohibition by means of a statute. Although it has been claimed that this could complicate the turnover of these shares, we feel that it is nevertheless important to focus on the contractual principle. After all, it is all the shareholders of a general meeting, possibly a formation meeting, who have full control over what is laid down in the statutes. It is also visible to anyone who wants to buy shares, what the statutes say about this. To the extent that it should be applicable to listed companies, the Committee sees that it may become problematic. If it turns out to be a problem, you get to put this into the stock exchange regulation, where you clarify the criteria that companies listed on Oslo Stock Exchange have to satisfy. There is nothing to prevent Oslo Børs from making a provision that, in order to be admitted to trading, the statutes are required to open up to a full degree of pledge. This is an aggregate proposition – there are many different changes presented as one case. Nevertheless, you can see that these are proposals that are appropriate, and I am very pleased that you have chosen to be effective in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e93	Since the adoption of the Shares Act in 1997, these laws have been regularly adapted to keep legislation up to date in line with the needs of business and society. The proposals for changes to the stock laws of Ot.prp. No 21 is a continuation of this ongoing process of further development of share law. The background to several of the proposals in the proposal is the business signals on change needs received and further developed by the Ministry of Justice. I am pleased that the Committee in its position gives its unanimous agreement to the proposals in the proposal. The changes proposed by the Government in the proposal are quite different in nature. Some of the changes aim to simplify certain procedures. This applies, for example: the amendment to the Shares Act § 13-23 and the General Shares Act § 13-24, which introduces a simpler procedure to make the annual accounts of the subsidiary and parent company available to shareholders in certain mergers. By making such procedures easier for business, we contribute to a more efficient business. Another change that I want to mention here, and as I see it as important, is the proposal for the change in the share law section 8-7, fourth paragraph. This change allows Norwegian companies with foreign parent companies to participate in group account schemes. The use of group accounting schemes is of great importance to business, and I am therefore very pleased that we will now have a system to meet the needs of these companies for such schemes, while safeguarding the interests behind the debt limitation rules. The stock laws shall establish the formal framework conditions for companies in an effective manner, while providing a framework for key societal interests, which is also essential for overall confidence in business. The government's work on the further development of the share laws is an ongoing process. As Minister of Justice, I want to continue this process, which I consider important.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e106	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 463]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e122	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 15 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Centre Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group, and after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e131	The fight against organised crime is one of the most important challenges facing society in the future. Many suggest that criminals are more perpetrators of violence than before, or threaten to commit violence against sources, informers, and witnesses in criminal matters. How extensive this problem is, we unfortunately know little about it, because such cases are rarely reported to the police. An overall judiciary believes it is very serious if the legal community fails in the prosecution against a suspect in a serious criminal case because witnesses do not dare to stand up to what they know. Police and prosecution authorities often rely entirely on witnesses, informants and infiltration of environments to gain knowledge of serious crime and to obtain sufficient evidence. In our view, it is crucial that society has adequate instruments to prevent the use of threats and violence against sources and informants. The opinion of the Supreme Court in the so-called heroin case in September 2002 gave clear signals that politicians had to act to avoid such issues in the future. The attorney general chose to refer the case to a case involving the smuggling of 35 kg of heroin, because the police could not guarantee the safety of the witnesses if the defender had access to all the documents in the case. The case aroused strong reactions, including here in the Chamber, and there was an immediate effort by Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum to strengthen the legislation. I want to commend the Council of State and the Government for the power they have shown in this matter, so that we avoid similar matters in the future. Odelstingen will today adopt legislative changes that will strengthen the criminal justice system's ability to detect and prosecute serious crime, without weakening the security of witnesses and other police sources. A serious weakness in the law is being changed. We cannot live with a situation where the most brutal criminals escape punishment, because our laws do not protect those who provide information about the criminal activity. This will lead to a devastation of the criminal environment and help to destroy people's trust in the judiciary. Work on finding good solutions to this problem has been difficult. There are important principles that are opposed to each other and that must be adequately observed. This is the concern for the lives and health of witnesses and sources, while maintaining legal certainty for those targeted. The consideration of our international obligations and human rights has been particularly important. The proposals have been carefully assessed and assumed to be in line with them. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Government Parties and the Advance Party, has given a position that we believe balances these considerations in a good way. The Workers' Party and SV do not support the legislative changes, they want further investigations. I would like to make the following statement about the majority's position. The majority are essentially in line with the Government’s proposed legislative changes, but propose a slightly different solution in terms of the rules of procedure. This I will come back to. The changes to the Criminal Procedures Act relate to sources and informants who are not to testify in the criminal proceedings themselves. In the view of the majority, the legislative changes should be enshrined in the rules on access to documents and the provision of evidence, and we agree with the Government and the Hearing Officers' view that the rules on anonymous witnessing are not only suitable for ensuring the safety of those involved. Organised crime is often cross-border, with links to several countries, and often requires the exchange of intelligence information. If such information has been received by the Norwegian police for no specific criminal proceedings, such information should be kept secret if the country concerned does not wish to release the information. The need to protect the use of police methods and police officers who infiltrate criminal environments is also best protected by a rule that allows for denial of sight and his defender of transparency in documents or evidence. It is important to stress in this debate that there are legal rules reserved for serious and very special issues. For reasons of legal certainty, we therefore believe that strict requirements should be imposed on the situations in which the law should provide for a restriction on access to documents and on the provision of evidence for sighted persons. In addition, we think it makes sense that the right gives the freedom to choose the medium-term solution to give the defender access to documents, but not to the defendant. The Government proposes that exemptions from access to documents or the provision of evidence should be based on concrete, burdensome needs, such as: fear of an informant's life, health or freedom. Furthermore, exemptions shall only be decided where strictly necessary and shall not give rise to significant concerns in the interests of the defence of the intended person. In this context, transparency cannot be denied if the documents or the testimony could reveal circumstances that could lead to the release of the target or to a reduction in penalties, e.g.: unlawfully acquired evidence or illegal provocation. The majority agree with the Government that there should also be a condition that there should be actions of a certain severity and that a restriction based on the criminal framework is appropriate. We are therefore in favour of the exemption rules being applied primarily in cases of crimes that could result in a five-year or more prison sentence. However, some exceptions have been made, including: in the case of infringements of the criminal law, Section 162, first paragraph, dealing with drug offences. The majority also believe that the general increase in the penalties framework for serial cases should be important, as in several types of cases it may be an organised criminal environment behind it. The upper penalty for a single theft is three years in prison, but six years after the new rules of the Penal Code § 62, first paragraph, which the Stortinget adopted earlier in the session. We believe that there are strong grounds for including the use of these rules by clashes of offences. If the defence of the defendant is also denied access to the file, the Government proposes that the defendant be appointed to a special lawyer when the court deals with matters of access to the file. The European Convention on Human Rights cannot derive such a claim, but the majority support the Government that such a mechanism is a particularly reassuring procedural right and an additional guarantee of legal certainty. With regard to the proceedings before the courts, the majority, as mentioned earlier, advocates a somewhat different solution to that originally proposed by the Government. The Government proposed that the issue of access to documents could be dealt with at any stage of the case, and that this could also be decided separately during the main proceedings of the judge in the court. In the consultation round, several views were expressed on the proposal for procedural rules. The majority of the Committee took particular note of the views of the Advocate-General on how this should be done. The Advocate General considered that the decision on the disclosure of information which would not be relied upon by the Public Prosecutor's Office as evidence should not be taken by the Judges of the Court of Justice but by a specially appointed Judge. The national lawyer's proposal also implies that the decision will be final and binding on the judiciary. The majority have carefully assessed the Riksadvokat’s proposal to establish a mechanism to ensure that questions of refusal of access to documents or proof can be resolved before the main proceedings in the case begin. We see that it may have unfortunate consequences if the decision is taken by the judge in the court. He will have a different access to factual information than what appears in the open court, and it could be difficult to ignore this information completely in the further handling of the case. The majority are in favour of an interim solution between the Government's proposal and the Riksadvokatens, a solution that we believe will ensure legal certainty for the sake of satisfactory results. In our view, there are good reasons for deciding whether to refuse transparency before the main debate. This will also prevent the delay and postponement of the case, because this is unclear before the case starts. The prosecution authority should therefore make a request to refuse transparency while the appeal decision is being sent to the right to review, but we do not consider that there is any reason to completely deny the right to promote such a request after a given period of time. Situations could arise where new information is available at a later stage, and the law should take this into account. In the view of the majority, such a request shall be decided by a special judge in order to ensure sufficient independence. We see several advantages in the fact that this decision is binding on the judiciary, as proposed by the Advocate General. At the same time, however, the majority believe that there may be a need to consider this differently if the reason for refusal of access or provision of evidence has fallen, for example: by the fact that the identity of a police source has nevertheless become known in the context of the case. The fundamental thing is to prevent the refusal of evidence or transparency that could lead to the alleged unlawful convictions, and a solution that allows for a conversion, in our view, would be better in line with the EMK than the Riksadvokat’s proposal. In cases where the case develops in such a way that the information in which access is refused can be favoured in the determination of the guilt issue, the law should allow the court to transmit the judgment and, in exceptional cases, to convert it. In our opinion, a good and thorough effort has been made to ensure a law that ensures that society is effective in preventing the use of violence and threats against police sources and ensuring effective investigation and prosecution of serious crimes. However, the work has raised many difficult issues, and we are very positive that the Government will appoint a separate sample to check the significance of the legislative changes. Such back-testing is important in order to assess whether legal certainty is adequately ensured for individuals, but also in order to clarify whether changes to the laws provide society with the appropriate means to ensure that the most reckless offenders are held responsible for their actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e180	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e183	I want to start this line by saying that when the Workers' Party has chosen to fall on the solution we have done, it is primarily because we want to have the most effective law. The background to these rules – this specific case – is no doubt the need for regulatory changes. What is so sad is that we have ended this case in Stortinget, which in our opinion means that we can ask questions not only about how these rules are in relation to the Human Rights Convention, but also about whether these are rules that could be effective in relation to the very serious situations that the rapporteur also pointed out in his statement. It would make no sense if you now addressed the serious legal process of depriving the accused of quite fundamental rights, while seeing that this would not solve the problems that the law is going to solve. There is reason to be particularly concerned when reading the department's input into both the Odelstingsproposition and the committee later, in relation to the effectiveness of this legislation. I want to ask the case rapporteur about this, in particular about the situations where either the judge who is going to investigate the case, or the lawyer, finds out that here is the illegally acquired evidence that could lead to acquittal, while knowing that there is a danger to the lives of some informants. Will the majority's proposal for Section 242(a) and the criterion of necessity go through, so that the defender will then have access to the documents, even if there is a risk to someone's life? I would like a clear answer to that question. This is important, because much of the legislative process has taken place in Stortingen and will be an important part of the preliminary work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e192	It is true that much of the work has been done, in particular the work on the amendments that are now under way, in the Stortinget. But there have also been heavy legal environments that have assisted — and contributed — in this process. I feel confident that the proposals that are now on the table do well to take into account the concerns of the Stortinget. The representative of Storberget asks the rapporteur to give a clear answer to a question that he chooses not to take a decision on. The representative of Storberget, when the heroin sentence was available, went high and said, "This is where action has to be done, something has to be done, here the Stortinget has to intervene, here the Ministry of Justice has to get on the track!" The Ministry of Justice came on the track. The Ministry of Justice has put forward a bill for which, fortunately, it is a majority, so that we get rid of several cases of this kind. The Ministry of Justice has also proposed that a sample be selected to verify this, to see if a person is given a law that works like one had intended. Because this is new reason -- we're breaking new ground here. But we do it because we want to protect informants, policemen and witnesses. We do this – while ensuring legal certainty. I am sure that the solutions that are now on the table are good and will work as intended. And I am very sorry that the Labour Party and the representative of Storberget, who went high in demanding action, have basically signed out of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e201	A somewhat different solution to what was proposed by the Department, says the representative Trond Helleland. In any event, I can inform you that, in his hearing opinion, the Advocate General writes: ‘In the event that the Ministry of Justice chooses to propose a scheme in line with the proposal of the Advocate General,’ – which is therefore the majority of the case – ‘there is therefore a need to carry out a police and prosecution hearing, as well as in any case selected courts, on the practical consequences and possible counter-conceptions.’ On its behalf, the Ministry of Justice writes in its reply to the Advocate General's Opinion: «In the opinion of the Ministry, the Advocate General's proposal deserves to be carefully assessed, but raises questions which will require further investigation and a separate hearing. At the same time, in the view of the Department, there is a need for rapid legislative changes. The Ministry has therefore chosen to work rapidly on a legislative proposal that will address the need for legislative changes identified after the High Court's Committee on Love in the so-called heroin issue on 5 September 2002. Is it so to understand that the representative Trond Helleland and the majority here believe that the need to work quickly has done so that there has not now been a need for a separate consultation, by choosing to set aside all the good rules on how a procedure should be in such and such serious cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e216	As chairman of the Committee and as rapporteur on this matter, I chose to start an early process with the other parties in the Committee. I got a very clear impression that it was a desire to move in the direction of the Riksadvokat's proposal. Then there has been a process in which it has been assessed by different legal environments what will be in line with the EMK. For this reason, the majority of the Committee has opted for a solution which is contrary to the opinion of the Advocate-General, namely, that a judge other than the judge chooses to carry out this assessment, while at the same time opening up the possibility of converting it into a court-martial. So it's a solution that's close to what I got the impression that a broad majority of the Justice Committee wanted. The fact that SV and the Workers' Party choose to ‘fowl out’, to put it in the representative’s language theme, may be their dilemma. I have to say that I am surprised, not over SV, but especially about the Workers' Party, which in such a serious matter chooses to resign, chooses to leave the arena to the majority parties – that's okay – but the reason is that someone would like to look more closely at the Riksadvokat's comments. We've done that, that's exactly what we've evaluated. And I hope and believe that the Workers' Party will adhere to the legislative changes subsidiaryly. It would be natural in such a case. Then we've put in security clauses all the way to verify this, it has to be assessed, because we're breaking new ground. I think it is very reassuring that we have got such a good process on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e223	It must not be that voting for any proposal would almost mean solving all the problems, and that those who show scepticism should be almost opposed to solving these serious societal problems. What's at the back, and what's the reason from the minority in this case, is that we see that the law here is unlikely to be sufficient. When the officers who have dealt with the matter at the bottom of this question find reason to move out of the paper and say that these legislative proposals would probably not help with the problem you were actually up to, then there is no reason to turn to the chest here and say that we're solving the problem, while others are "fucking out". In this context, it must be easy to adopt inadequate legislation. I must also be allowed to refer to the letter received by the Justice Committee from the Minister of Justice, where it cannot be confirmed that this legislation would have solved the problem that was the basic problem in relation to the heroin issue that started this whole thing. When some of us chose to go quite high on the track in view of the fact that this is a problem that we have to solve, it was precisely what was meant to be honest. We want legislation that can hit this kind of threat business, etc., and we want effective criminal justice. That is where the rapporteur does not answer my question. I have to be allowed to repeat it – that's why I repeat: when you face a situation where you have a basis for relief in the material, for example. illegal provocation, and then one faces a situation where one also sees that there are serious threats to one's life – when they stand up against one another – is it such that the documents will then be made transparent? The rapporteur must be able to reply to the question of transparency, even if there is a risk to the lives of some of those involved in the back complex. You have to be able to answer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e230	In my post, I have gone through the procedures and the legislative changes that we are proposing. What surprises me, on the other hand, is that the representative Storberget, who admitted that he was ‘high on the track’ – that’s good with commitment – now chooses to volunteer completely, because the Workers’ Party does not outline any other solutions. They rely on the Opinion of the Advocate General and ask that the matter be put to the vote. At any rate, I can assure the representative of Storberget that the Right – and I am counting on the other parties in the majority – will do what is sufficient to ensure that people who are threatened with silence are given the opportunity to testify by giving information without giving their identity. It's a devastation of the crime we see. We're now taking the first steps to combat it. We are sure that these are good solutions, but at the same time I will signal very strongly that if there are other things that have to be covered up by the law to avoid such situations, the Right as a party and this government will ensure that the dirtholes that may be found in the law are sealed. I think it is better that we act now than that we postpone the case and risk that major offenders go free because information cannot be kept away from their defenders.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e239	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e243	First, a brief comment on the Chairman of the Committee. The worst thing that can happen in this case after the law is passed here tonight is that major offenders go free, despite the fact that the Stortinget has, as well, shown the power of action and passed a new law. It is the worst that can happen, and therefore the Storting should have taken advantage of the opportunity to spend a little more time so that we could get a law that would certainly work. The recognition in the Supreme Court of 5 September 2002 in the so-called heroin case made it clear that there is a need to provide greater access to the limitation of the transparency of hidden background information. However, the cause of this problem is not a new date. There was a need and need to protect police sources of information when drug crime became a foothold in Norway, and the need has increased over the past 25 years. Not only criminal groups use violence and threats to those who have information in criminal matters. It has also become more and more common, for example. in family violence. Information from sources, infiltrators or communications control in Norway or other countries has often enabled the police to be in the right place in a timely manner, so that search and/or seizure could be carried out. It has been the practice of the prosecution authority for the last 15 years that the criminal case often begins with a search or investigation, and that in many cases the information that caused the police to take action was not included in the case. After the Supreme Court heroin report, it has now been established that this way of dealing with cases is no longer accepted practice. The Labour Party therefore believes – and we agree with the majority of the Committee – that there is a clear need to amend the law. We have to stop getting cases where hard-core criminals can roam around with witnesses and prevent you from getting a proper trial. We therefore need to establish legislation that is effective and that is accurate. And what is sad is that I am not convinced that the proposal that the Minister of Justice is now promoting will prevent us from getting new cases, as in the heroin case. Several law-enforcement officers in Borgarting are skeptical as to whether the new law will work. Lagmann Nils Erik Lie said to the Evening Post on 28 December 2002: ‘It is not stated at all that the case would have had another outcome with the new law.’ He's referring to the heroin case. Minister of Justice Dørum also admits this in a letter to the Committee of 7 March 2003, saying that there is not enough detailed knowledge on this matter to establish that if Dørum’s proposal were a reality, the Committee on Love would have reached a different conclusion. Then the problem is that we are equidistant, because the reason for this emergency treatment was as soon as possible to clear up the legal problems that arose in the wake of the Supreme Court ruling on 5 September. It was just to let go that the tanners again would point their noses to the police and the judiciary. The law adopted today by the Stortinget cannot assure the Minister of Justice that the committee will function properly. For the Workers' Party, it is more important to spend a little more time making laws that we know work, than in an emergency to make laws that are not quality-proof and that we do not know how to work. Unfortunately, the government parties and the Advance Party have chosen the last one. The minority, the Labour Party and SV, believe that the proposals in Ot.prp. No 24 for 2002–03 should have been dealt with in much more detail than is currently the case. The need for action has now been shown to be at the expense of good practice and thought-out proposals. In its Opinion, the Advocate General proposed major changes to the Ministry's proposal. These proposals have been disregarded by the Minister of Justice, despite the fact that on page 55 of the motion for a resolution: ‘The Advocate General’s proposal deserves careful consideration, but raises questions that will require further investigation and a separate hearing. At the same time, the Ministry has seen it as important to present as soon as possible a legislative proposal to address the need for legislative changes identified by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on 5 September 2002 in Case 2002/1093. The Ministry has therefore chosen to base the legislative proposal that is now being promoted on the proposal that was sent to the hearing.’ My immediate reaction to this is that haste is cargo. Firstly, in response to the Committee, it is not possible to ensure that legislation has been found that works. Secondly, there has been such a hurry to ignore the round of consultations and not to consider obvious good input. But the worst thing about this procedure is that the government parties and the Progress Party, with the blessing of the Council of State, choose to go against their own government proposals, and promote central parts of the Riksadvokat's proposal as a new legislative change. This is done without the fact that the specific proposal has been consulted, which the Ministry of Justice actually believes is required by the quotation from page 55 of the proposal. So does the Advocate General, who, in his opinion, says: ‘The alternative proposals are of such a nature that, in our opinion, they will have to initiate new consultation rounds...’ In addition, they say that: ‘these are issues that will have a very large practical and principleal impact. Those who are to apply the rules in practice — courts, police and prosecution authorities and lawyers — must be given the opportunity to comment, the alternative proposal being relatively different from the Ministry’s. The Advocate General also explains in more detail why there is a need for consultation with regard to their proposal, saying that: «the appeal against the question of transparency proposed by the national lawyer will have significant practical implications for the proceedings of the police and prosecution authority and for the workload of the courts». The Advocate General also points out that the effects of the Supreme Court judgment are no more urgent than the need to take time for the additional quality assurance, which means that central hearing bodies are given the opportunity to express their views again. The Labour Party believes that the treatment given to such an important law, both through preparation in the Department and in the Committee, is under any criticism. We are therefore promoting, together with SV, a proposal to send the entire law back to the Government. We also believe that the legal preparations are so poor that it is not appropriate to subsidise the bill, and we will therefore vote against them. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e297	The representative, Gunn Karin Gjul, has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e302	On the VG Net 9 September 2002, Knut Storberget was very clear after the prosecution decided to draw the serious appeal against the so-called heroin case. The Riksadvokat's motives and arguments were understandable. However, the decision demonstrated, as Knut Storberget also pointed out so eloquently: ‘Very sorry. The decision is an invitation for us justice politicians to review the legislation on the protection of witnesses.’ Furthermore, Storberget thought there will be more similar things, and that there must be solutions. For as he said it: ‘We cannot have it that way.’ If the Labour Party's position had been given a majority today, the situation would have been exactly the same as it was six months ago, contrary to what Storberget thought. The prosecution had then had to draw matters for the protection of witnesses. I think today we have a case where the differences between the parties are made visible in a completely different way than before. The Labour Party uses a lot of words to comment on the right of witnesses to be protected, police investigation methods, legal certainty, etc. The Labour Party uses a lot of words to point out at the same time the importance of punishing guilty people in serious criminal matters, who are often well-organized criminals with very brutal conduct against those who show disloyal and heretical conduct in their own environment. Right wants to trade. We want to come to terms with the outspoken criminal behavior of international gangs. Today's legislation indirectly rewards those who show aggression against witnesses and informers. Why, then, does the Workers' Party show no action to protect these witnesses? Will the State of Justice Norway again experience that the Riksadvokat must appeal against the defendant in serious crimes? Does the Workers' Party realize that witness protection can only be achieved by failing to gain knowledge of the identity of witnesses? Or is it that the Workers' Party will never, under any circumstances, allow the defendant and his defender not to have full access to the documents? If so, witness and source protection will never be another word without the contents of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e318	The Labour Party is very clear on this matter. We are very clear that a change of laws is necessary to prevent us from getting back into a situation where tough criminals can point their noses at the police and the judiciary and prevent them from being punished for hiding behind a complicated code. We're very clear that we have to have a code that works, and that's why we're so ready that we have to spend a little longer time to make sure that the legislation we're now adopting will really work. What we see is that there are several heavy legal environments that cast doubt on whether what is adopted in the Storing today will actually work. The worst thing that can happen in a case like this to the audience, to the criminals and to all of us who believe in the state of law in Norway is that we are adopting a law today that will in practice prove not to work. That's the most serious thing we can do. The Labour Party wants amendments to the law, but we also want legal certainty to be guaranteed, and we need to take care of the democratic processes around the legislative process, such as, among other things. is that those affected by the law — the courts and the prosecution authority — are properly heard and are given an indication of what they think in this case. I have to say that I am quite shocked by both the chairman of the committee and also by the representative Dybevig, who uses the characteristics of the Workers' Party as if we have 'fucked out'. I believe that a very unprofessional way of accusing parties who are trying to do their job properly and thoroughly is to "fuck out".
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e325	I registered that the representative Gjul claimed that she was shocked by the two previous speakers from the Right. If I am able to follow it up, I am in doubt about, but I still have some questions: Where will the Workers' Party in this case? You say that you're very clear that you want action, and that you want to do something, while you're actually doing the opposite, at my discretion. If that's the way I've seen it, that's the one point of intersection that's essentially the problem for the Workers' Party, why don't you support the rest? Why not then promote an alternative proposal for what seems difficult, or propose to send that particular piece to the hearing? That would have helped to get a majority for the rest of the proposal. It does not want the Workers' Party in this case, and at least I have trouble seeing where the action of the Workers' Party is. The only action I see being taken here is to avoid liability in relation to the matter, and that you do not want to make a decision. You hang on to one point and want a wider consultation on it before you draw any conclusions. Of course, that's an important point, but still. My last question is, is the Workers' Party the principle of the intention of this proposition that lies ahead, or do you have any aversions to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e334	I believe that it is precisely the Labour Party that takes responsibility, because we take responsibility for having a thorough and proper procedure in such an important matter. So this is about refusing access to documents for defendants, and preventing the tanned criminals from relocating around as they please in our legal system. Then you have to do it properly. We believe that when, nine days after the ruling was given in the Supreme Court, the Ministry comes up with its opinion of the hearing, and if the hearing bodies are given an incredibly short time to deal with the matter, the department has not been conscious of its responsibility. Nor is the Committee aware of its responsibilities when, as a bench proposal, proposals promoted in the consultation round are addressed. Then the representative Ellingen asks why we cannot vote in favour of parts of the proposal. Then I will refer the representative of Ellingsen to the central new paragraphs of the law, which are § 242(a) and § 272(a). Paragraphs 242(a) and 292(a) are concerned as to whether it is actually such that we are able to prevent a situation such as that which arose through the judgment of the Supreme Court on 5 September. Both of these paragraphs are crucial if we're actually able to prevent it. Paragraph 272(a) is the whole new paragraph proposed by the Committee, which concerns a specific Judge appointed to deal with the matter. The National Advocate and the Department have been quite clear that they must be consulted before they can be dealt with in the Stortinget. I believe that the answer is quite clear: the central points of what you are about to adopt at Odelstinget today are not the basis for adoption. The majority is not conscious of their responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e343	When I as the case rapporteur chose to use a little strong words in the characteristics of the Workers' Party in this case, it is because the comments of the Workers' Party deliberately try to doubt the process that has been on a false basis. It will include, among others: in the notes to the Workers' Party: «The Advocate General has several proposals for amendments to the proposal submitted. These proposals have been disregarded by the Ministry of Justice.’ This is wrong. What is the reality is that the Riksadvokat had more input into the case, but only at one point did the department take a final stand for the recording by the Riksadvokat. That is the point that the majority of the committee has now improved in line with the opinion of the Advocate General. So the working party and SV are deliberately misinformed. Then my question becomes, how can it be? When the Workers' Party is so busy doing something with these criminals who are now getting away, and when the Workers' Party is so busy changing the law, they have therefore chosen to register completely by saying that this is not good enough, we are sending it back. Now, it is a fact that at one point the Advocate General's hearing opinion has not been followed, and that point has been addressed by the majority of the Judicial Committee, worked seriously with the heavy legal environment, and put in place a solution that I believe the Advocate-General can live with, and that at least the Ministry of Justice has stated that they can live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e355	I understand that the chairman of the committee needs both to speak out loud and speak in large words today, because unfortunately he has a bad case. Thus, it has taken steps to ignore something that is incredibly important in any legislative process, to get good lawmaking and to get democratic processes with good consultation rounds. I think the majority of the committee should be aware that the process that is now in this room today is a central part of the legislative process. The interpretation of the paragraphs that are now being adopted here today is going to be very central to how to interpret the law afterwards. In the case of the new section 272(a), parts of it have been promoted by the Riksadvokat – that is correct – but it is also such that parts of that section are actually completely new. There is no one who has seen it in its entirety before it was promoted in Odelstinget today. Therefore, what is being said in this Chamber today will be absolutely central to the drafting of the law and to how this paragraph should be interpreted. Then the chairman of the committee and the rapporteur of the case accuse the undersigned of misrepresenting the reality. It is true that the Riks lawyer made more proposals than just what was going on in specific court proceedings, and that was not promoted by the Government either. This applies, inter alia, to: What's going on in the penalty framework. Going as high on the track as the representative of Greece is doing now, I think that's why he's going to be quite careful about the afterlife.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e362	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e365	So far, this has obviously been about finding contradictions that at the same time you're really not here, with a few exceptions. It is claimed that the process has been wrong, it has been too small in width and too few hearings, and it has gone too fast. These are familiar words to me. We've had a tendency and we'll probably still have a tendency to make suggestions that the rest here oppose. For me, this is no surprise. I could have mentioned SEFO, I could have mentioned lifting the penalties, where the Progress Party has wanted to carry things forward and have greater progress than the majority in this Chamber. Therefore, this is not a surprise for us, but a confirmation that even this time a minority actually goes around with the handbrake on. It is my reverential claim that the only ones who serve on it are the criminals. It is claimed here that you do not know for sure whether it would have altered the outcome of the heroin issue, but you do not know at all the opposite. Ergo, I think you're using a speculative argument that there's really no team. I further record that there is a dispute about the need for this. For the Progress Party, it is about moving forward. We think that with the change that's now going on, we're going to take a step in the right direction. And why do we need it? Well, for our part, it's pretty straightforward. We have a criminal environment that sometimes gets tougher: we have threats, we have represals, and some of these environments are so tough that we hesitate to take over reality in relation to how serious it can actually be. Then we have to have a tool against it, and for the Progress Party we consider this matter to be part of that tool. It is likely that if those who are not assisting the police in resolving these types of serious cases, and feel a sense of security in relation to being able to do so, the State of Justice loses Norway and Norway as a nation on it. If you don't feel security for your life and your health and your family, what in the world is it that tells you to dry up and help? I don't think you want to, and I think this case is part of and contributes in that way. There are also other things that are important here. One of the points that has been pointed out is that you need to have a law that makes it possible to cooperate with the police authorities of other countries and others from which you get information. If they are not guaranteed anonymity, this can be very difficult. And it's clear that with the way organized crime unfolds, we have a challenge here, too, to have a law that takes care of that. It would be strange if the authorities of other countries said that we have a tip for you, but we can't bring it, because you have a law that makes us not sure that the information is kept anonymous in that way. It can be in relation to infiltration, drugs and other things, and then we have to have a law, in other words a tool that ensures this. And it's clear that with the great resources of those who break laws, who live by crime, this is a struggle between good and evil. It's using a worn-out expression, but it still contains a symbol that we're going to take care of. And it's clear that the efforts in the criminal environments are so great that they go very far to avoid criminal prosecution, and that's what this is all about. And not least, when I first started to look at this matter, I was a little surprised – for what was the matter really about? Well, it was about ignoring information that was not to be used as evidence. First of all, I thought this could not be a problem. Now I'm not a lawyer, I'm a layman they're luxurious in this context, but still it made sense to me. So if it's not to be presented and it's not for direct information, then why should it be a problem? Clearly, this is a problem. The police can use the wrong method, you can trick and you can cheat, but there is a scheme in this case to ensure that just that piece and make sure the police don't cheat in the cards. We trust the Norwegian police, and we're sure they'll be able to do this in a good way. It is also the case that sanctions are imposed on how this can be used. Those of us who have read the hearing opinions know that there was also a conflict about where this should take place: Should it address cases with a 10-year penalty framework, should it address cases with a five-year penalty framework, or should one simply look at the severity of the case? For our part, we were in the starting point that it was the severity of the matter that was important, not if the penalties were five or ten years. The reason for this is that we have a number of areas today that have a lower penalty rate than five years, for which we were concerned. Now the government has reported that they will come with an upgrade – we will call it – even in terms of those conditions, so this will be covered with time and moments, but we wanted to look primarily at the severity. So anyway, we have reached a compromise that we think covers this, and we will have to come back to that. I also welcome the fact that this proposal provides for a lower level of penalties if there is a risk to someone's life, health or freedom. It's an important signal. Then we're back at some of the intentions of this, namely how to safeguard the security of the person who is in a way at risk, the one who gives us an information that allows you to reveal a criminal relationship, and that's essential to me in this case. Then there's also a tool made to ensure that the defendant has legal certainty, and there's a system set up with a special lawyer to take care of what we here call third-party interest. It is not a substitute, but a supplement to his legal certainty, and at least we think it makes sense. I have also not registered that others have been against it, so there are other things that have been more problems in this case. It is also the case that for the Progress Party it was important to look at what kind of judge it is that makes the decision in these kinds of cases. For our part, it was essential that it should not be the same judge who judged the case, who judged whether information should be exempted or not. Luckily, here we've gotten the government parties to do a turn that we thought was reasonable. Without that, I think it would've gotten worse to get to a solution. For us, we can continue to discuss the Riksadvokat's vision. We've had a great sense of his vision. We think the proposal is well on the way to taking up the intention of the Riksadvokat. Then we also registered that one of course wants to run this out at the hearing, but for us it was about showing the power of action. I have previously accused others from this room of not being able to act. We think it's right to do this, and we don't feel like we're gambling with anything. I feel that we have a balance in this matter. The purpose of the defendant should also be addressed here with different arrangements and consideration should be given to the arrangements. I am personally glad that for once we can actually make a decision on a matter that is controversial. We have discussed matters which, in my opinion, have been much less controversial, cf. SEFO, as we discussed last spring, where people from this pulpit said that we should have actually participated in this, but we'll still wait for a hearing. So this time a majority found out that we want action instead of words and more words. I believe that both the Workers' Party and the SV have had an opportunity to do something more than express general support for it. You could have joined the main part of what's here, without going on a chord with the point that you're worried about, but you don't choose to do that. Of course, this has been argued by the Labour Party, and I take note of that. But the fact that we have a political disagreement is good, because it testifies that we have a debate here that is a commitment that we have good at, and we get to go up some boundaries for what makes sense from the different political points of view. For our part, what we are presenting here, with the changes made through the work of the Committee, is positive, and I hope and believe that it will be a tool for combating criminal acts in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e395	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e399	The representative Ellings gives evidence that he wants action, not just words. I totally agree with him on that. But what he does not respond to in his statement, and which neither the rapporteur of the case, Trond Helleland, was able to answer in the two lines that the representative Storberget had to him, is whether he is sure that the law will work. The representative of Storberget outlined a question twice for the rapporteur on the effects of the law. That is precisely the problem, because central legal actors doubted whether we have been able to find a law that is accurate enough. Lawyer Lie of Borgarting Law says that it is not at all stated that the case would have had another outcome with the new law. Dørum, in his letter to the committee, says that there is not enough detailed knowledge about the perception of the heroin issue to establish that there would have been a different outcome with the new law. Member of the Criminal Fellov Commission, attorney Frode Sulland, believes that Dørum's proposals are most marked by panic and populism. I must then ask the question to the Progress Party, which is a law and order party and wants results: what about the new rules that make you so sure that you have found a consistent piece of legislation? The worst thing that can happen in this room today through what we decide today is that we come back in the same situation that we got in September 5, that the Supreme Court actually comes in a situation where they come up with the same feeling. If that happens, we've adopted a paper tiger, and none of us deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e411	This was almost as expected. What the Labour Party is asking for is something that works. There is no guarantee that this will be functional. What is certain, at least, is that with the Workers' Party's proposal here tonight, at least we will not get anything anymore, it is totally without taking responsibility in this matter. And hit security? Yes, if it is that the Workers' Party is concerned about our success safety, then where is the Workers' Party's success safety here, which has been flattened and does not want to take responsibility for a position on this, but wants to push everything away? We can discuss which of us is most accurate. I register at least that we are in and form a majority for something that is an active action, while the Workers' Party is laying down flat and sussing. They don't want to take a stand because they're waiting for a hearing. It's nothing new, it's nothing new. As I said in my post, I have repeatedly heard that the Labour Party has said that we must wait, we cannot go on the matter, we must have it out at the hearing. And that's good. Of course, you have to listen. But some of us think it's okay that there's going to be some action too, not just listening – if not, we won't move on. In addition, I also have such confidence in the system in Norway that if it turns out that this law would have an unintended effect, I am sure that this forum will be able to make a change to it. In conclusion, I must say that this amendment to the law might not have led to another outcome in the heroin issue, but I do not record the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e418	If the question from the representative Gunn Karin Gjul was as expected, why can't the representative Ellingen answer? It makes no sense for me to listen to a discussion where you get a specific question and then you answer with a counter question that says you had at least not been able to come up with something that was better. It's completely irrelevant. Here you are in a situation where someone is in a majority. That means that that majority actually has to take responsibility for what you decide. I will simply repeat the question from the representative Gjul: what makes the representative Ellingen and the Progress Party so sure that there will be another outcome if we get a similar case to the so-called heroin case?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e425	Taking responsibility or not taking responsibility – it is at least such that some of us here have chosen to take responsibility. If it's a problem for the minority, I'll register it and take note of it, but at least we've chosen to do an action. Bomber – no! To the representative of Thorkildsen, I have just expressed in response to the previous line that I was not bomb-proof. But I said something about that if this amendment has an unintended effect, I am absolutely sure that the Stortinget and the Judicial Committee will be able to do something about it. That's why we have this proposal coming forward now, because the law we have has a flaw that you're now trying to do something about to move on. That means we have an active attitude towards it. We shouldn't be afraid that we'll get up in the same thing again, and for our part, this is a step in the right direction. We want to move on, and we want to try it out. If we were to be wrong against assumption, I am sure the matter will come back to us again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e430	Some of the most irresponsible things I know about are politicians who act just for the sake of action, completely without being really interested in what's going to happen. If I represented a party that seems to be very concerned about what most people care about, I would be very interested to know if it is such that you will get a different result in a similar heroin case in the future. Since Ot.prp. No 24, which we are now dealing with, is so closely related to the so-called heroin issue that has occurred in the media, most people will have the impression that this proposal and this new law will prevent us from being faced with a similar powerless situation as the one we saw. Most people will then necessarily feel cheated if we come up in a situation that is exactly the same as we saw on September 5. What worries me so much is that most people could lose confidence in this big thing. We can't have any of that. And the best recipe for giving people most of the distrust is to act for the sake of action, without being interested in what really results.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e435	The representative of Thorkildsen claims that it is irresponsible not to be interested in the result. My reverential claim is that it's the exact opposite: we're interested in the result, and we show that through action. I would say that it is much more irresponsible not to take a responsibility, such as SV. in this case shows that you are not willing to do so. You hide behind the lawyer, and that's what SV would have to do. Then you say that the worst thing you know is that politicians kind of act so that you have to do things again. With respect to reporting, I thought it was part of being a politician, that you met yourself at the door. I can actually imagine that even the SV en route in their time as a political party has turned around and come to other conclusions in matters. I think that's part of a process and a development. I don't think that's how we've invented the truth once and for all. I believe the truth and what one needs for political and legal is part of a continuous process. What's right today doesn't have to be right tomorrow, but that doesn't mean we can sit down and wait and hope that things will go over. We're going to act here and now, and it chooses the Progress Party to do with the majority. The fact that the minority again digs down and hopes that this goes over, the minority gets to do, but we're not going to be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e442	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e445	Today, we are dealing with a matter that is extremely important, because it is the most profoundly concerned with protecting the rule of law from attacks by criminals who are willing to take all the methods used to go free, and because it has as its starting point to maintain the people's confidence in the functioning of this state of law. For SV, an important aspect of the case is also the need to identify good practices for more effective control of police methodology and behaviour. Unfortunately, the good intentions have been overshadowed by the fact that the Minister of Justice and the majority of this Committee have opted for a procedure which must be said to run counter to principles of trusty craftsmanship. For SV, this issue now stands as a gruesome example of how responsible politicians should not act. Taking a single case into account the way in which it has been done, a single case that none of us has the opportunity to know about, formulate a legislative proposal in record time, give the hearing bodies five days' time to comment, extend the deadline to one month after a strong pressure — still a record card deadline — and then change the proposal during committee proceedings, without allowing the hearing bodies to comment on it, is simply irresponsible, so irresponsible that neither the SV nor the Labour Party can vote for the proposals on the table. SV is deeply disappointed that the committee will not accept our proposal to return this matter to the department for further consideration. I myself participated in a criminal court lunch at the Institute of Public Law almost two weeks ago, and the mood among lawyers, judges, lawyers and others who were unmistakably unambiguous: this is an outrageous procedure, this is too complicated to defend such a record-breaking process. In other words, send the proposal back, take the time needed to get a good and responsible result that we know will work. The Ministry admits that the need to act quickly — to do something — has been more important than a thorough procedure. For SV, such a position is unacceptable. SV also believes it is serious that, by addressing this issue and linking it so closely to the so-called heroin issue, it gives the impression that if the proposed changes had been applicable as Norwegian law before the heroin issue was dealt with in Norwegian courts last year, it would have had a different outcome from that of the Supreme Court's Dearth Committee until 5 September. So that's not going to be possible. The Ministry states by letter of 7 March 2003 to the Judicial Committee that there is insufficient detailed knowledge on this matter to establish that the Committee would have reached a different conclusion if the Ministry’s proposal in this proposition were then a reality. For most people, however, we must be able to assume that in terms of Ot.prp. No 24 and the Minister of Justice’s marketing it in the media have created the impression that a decision will never again be taken similar to the so-called heroin case in Norwegian courts in the future. So you're at risk of throwing blues in people's eyes. The Advocate General has proposed major changes to the Ministry’s proposal, but has had problems both because this is terribly complicated and because the consultation period has been exceptionally short. A month on fundamental changes in criminal law! It's awfully short. These proposals – several, not, as the representative of Greece tries to claim, only this one – have therefore been ignored by the Ministry of Justice, because it has been thought that it is essential now to ensure that the changes come into force as quickly as possible. The Ministry of Justice writes: «In the opinion of the Ministry, the Advocate General's proposal deserves to be carefully assessed, but raises questions which will require further investigation and a separate hearing. At the same time, in the view of the Department, there is a need for rapid legislative changes. The Ministry has therefore chosen to work rapidly on a legislative proposal that will address the need for legislative changes identified after the High Court's Committee on Love in the so-called heroin issue on 5 September 2002. In other words, you have chosen to act almost for the sake of action, and you admit that you're not sure if the proposal that's here will remedy the situation that we've come up with. How is this possible? For Sv, such an attitude to legal work appears to be nothing less than objectionable. Even more worrying is the fact that the majority of the committee, with the governmental parties at its head, opposes the proposal of its own State Council and nevertheless chooses to promote parts of the Parliamentary Advocate's proposals as new legislative changes. This is done without the specific proposal being heard, which the Ministry of Justice actually believes is necessary in this case! I think the jam I choose to quote the department one more time: ‘The Advocate General’s proposal deserves, in the opinion of the Department, to be carefully assessed, but raises questions which will require further investigation and a separate hearing.’ It's not strange that I'm standing here now and have a little bit of haressing? In addition, the Advocate General wrote in his Opinion: ‘In the event that the Ministry of Justice chooses to propose a scheme in line with the proposal of the Advocate General, it is therefore necessary to carry out a police and prosecution hearing, as well as at least selected courts, on the practical consequences and possible counter-conceptions.’ So why isn't this done? What's changed? The Advocate General also points out that the effects of the judgment of the High Court of Justice of 5 September 2002 are so far no more urgent than the need to take time for the additional quality assurance, which means that central hearing bodies are given the opportunity to express their views again. Let's hope that this case has not set the standard for how the Minister of Justice, the Government Parties and the Advance Party will behave politically in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e488	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e491	I am not surprised by SV's position on this matter. SV, like the Workers' Party, wants to postpone the matter. In my opinion, SV has never been the champion of the victims' rights, but most concerned that the defendant, accused or guilty should have the best prerequisites for being acquitted. There is only one exception: when women are subjected to violence. This is followed by the Swedish Right's tradition that perpetrators should be punished. The reason for today’s legislative proposal is that the prosecution chose to appeal against the so-called heroin case, on the grounds that the protection of the identity of the witnesses was important. There could be an imminent danger that life would be lost, if these witnesses' identity were revealed. Does it not worry the SV's representative that guilty of very serious criminal cases can go free if SV's proposal gets a majority? SV is fast out of meaning in most contexts. Hasn't it been possible for SV to think anything about this matter, especially after the sharp reactions of the heroin case got its outcome? In my opinion, SV demonstrates in this case, as in very many other cases, that there is a long way between the big parties and action on how important it is to protect sources, informers, and how important privacy is. Among other things, they join the following: ‘It is, in the Committee’s view, a serious deterioration in public confidence in justice if offenders go free because they are unable to ensure the safety of informants. Society must have sufficient means at all times to prevent the use of violence and threats, and instruments to ensure effective investigation and prosecution of crime.’ Does it not worry that by their own decision today they are actually involved in weakening public confidence in the legal system? Hasn't SV, like the rest of us, had more than six months to form a separate vision in this matter? In my view, the position of the majority and the Right has taken into account all the reservations made by the hearing bodies. We have even gone beyond what the European Convention on Human Rights confirms.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e506	There are many things that concern me in this matter. The proceedings concern me a lot. How most people will perceive it if this proposal that the majority now adopts does not solve the problems that we all agree on are problems, and what reactions most people then get, that worries me. I think the worst thing we can do if we want to be responsible politicians is to pretend that we're making changes that are really not changes, but a maintenance of the status quo. I don't think anyone is wondering if SV is concerned about victims of crime, other than, of course, the representative Dybevig. And I don't think any of those who read the comments on this case doubt that the Workers' Party and SV, despite the way we choose to deal with this matter, are concerned that we won't get into a situation similar to that we were last year, if the reason we got into a situation like this, was that we were afraid of sources and witnesses' safety. What we're not going to have is to have a hearing period of five days or one month, or you're just almost throwing suggestions over the table without letting the relevant authorities have their opinion on them first, just because you're going to act. So it's the most irresponsible of all. If we had been given a decision, this matter would have been treated responsibly, and we would have been sure that we now got a law that would address the problems we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e517	The representative, Mrs Thorkildsen, gave the impression that a quick procedure is automatically considered to be an unprofessional procedure. A 10-year consultation period would be very long, but hardly more appropriate than a month's proceedings and consultation period. Maybe it's not the length of the consultation period that's crucial, but what kind of input you actually get. If the hearing bodies are able to make qualitatively good representations at the scheduled time, it is not certain that the legislative proposal would be different – if only a little longer time had been given to arrive at exactly the same conclusions with the exact same formulations. What's interesting about this is that what you see as the big problem is a principle. The question is, is it the judge who is to make the decision, or is it another judge who is to make the decision? Is it true that the judge should be able to sit with information that the defendant and the defender should not be able to deal with in any way? If you can make a decision on what you think about that principle, the matter is given. If SV does not want the defendant to have this additional legal certainty, they should be in favour of the Government’s original proposal. If they believe that legal certainty should be provided, they should be in favour of the majority's proposal. But SV should probably dry to clarify what they actually mean. Is it the case that SV does not dare to take a principle position until their position has been consulted? Or is it simply so that SV here does not want to give accused more legal certainty than is strictly necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e526	To take the last one first. So that's the way we've essentially taken a position, and that position is going to have to change. What changes should be made do not appear to us to be responsible for taking a decision now without the hearing of the hearing bodies concerned. That is what is in the word hearing bodies. So this is such a serious matter that if I were from the Advancement Party, I would not torture myself in the way that the Progress Party has done, because that party is actually in charge of what is being adopted today, and will be responsible for it later. It is not certain, as the representative of Kukkestad rightly points out, that the hearing bodies which could possibly have been contacted would have had comments on what the majority here proposes. But couldn't you care less to check? It could be that they had comments, it could be that, for example. had gone across human rights, or that there had been other problematic aspects of the proposal that you didn't have time to check out, because you were going to act. I believe that with such a tone as the representative Kukkestad puts up with it with hearings, there is a contempt for democracy, quite simply. I had expected something more from the time Norway's largest party. I expected that party to understand what hearings really are good for. It's not about spending ten years, but it's about an intermediate between five days and ten years. It's about having a proper treatment, because that's what our democracy is about. It is at its core to hear what the parties involved actually think about one thing, and not just overrun them in contempt for what they might have to believe if you wanted to take the trouble to check.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e535	I get a strange feeling of listening to the representative Thorkildsen when she makes her statement on this matter. I get a feeling that it's SV and the Workers' Party that are acting, and that it's us the others, the majority, who are putting in place a series of legislative measures, that do nothing. She's trying to rewrite the world and the reality. The reality is that we, the majority – consisting of the Advancement Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party – are actually taking action. Firstly, we are taking measures to show the criminal environment that we are acting and closing the gaps that need to be contained in the law, in relation to the fact that informants are to be protected in the law from being exposed to the point of view of the case. Secondly, a postponement of the case will allow the most brutal criminals to win the first round. It makes no sense in my opinion to spend another whole year on these changes and in the meantime perhaps let people who commit serious crimes and serious crime escape without even having to explain themselves to a court. I think that's very unfortunate. So in the case in question, the heroin case, it was a person who had 35 kg of heroin! He was not appealed to. The appeal was dismissed. I think that's very serious. I have not heard a single word from the SV representative that she is concerned about this. SV claims we stand for the status quo. That's wrong. The status quo is what SV and the Workers' Party are promoting in this room today, namely that they do not want to do anything about this problem, but let it persist, so that in the future we will also experience similar situations. I will once again ask the same question as I did before, and I did not get an answer from SV: Does it not worry the SV representative that guilty of very serious criminal cases can go free if SV's proposal gets a majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e546	It worries me whether serious criminals are going free, whether it is our proposal that has been adopted, or it is the proposal of the majority that is on the table that is being adopted. So what's really going on here is that the proposal that's being adopted has the Justice Department pointed out that it won't necessarily lead to a different situation, or to a different outcome from what you've come up with in the so-called heroin case. So that means that the majority here also doesn't necessarily manage to fight these serious criminals. That's what we don't know. If you had really been interested in doing something, you would have taken the time needed to make sure that what you decide is actually working. In the end, for the sake of the representative, Deepevig, I will repeat what I started my post with instead: ‘Today, we are dealing with a matter that is extremely important, because it is the most profoundly concerned with protecting the rule of law against attacks by criminals who are willing to use all methods to go free, and because it has as its starting point to maintain people’s confidence in the functioning of this rule of law.’ In other words, we are actually very interested in putting in place a law that prevents us from getting into such a situation that criminal networks use methods that are at risk of democracy and at risk of the safety and life of sources and witnesses. But we believe that what is now proposed will not necessarily work. At least we are interested in ensuring that the core values of democracy, those affected, are heard, respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e560	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e563	Criminals are perpetrating violence to a greater extent than before, and they are also threatening to use violence against police sources, their informers and witnesses in criminal matters. These are developments communicated to us from both police and prosecution authorities. The criminal wants to prevent the police from getting knowledge of crimes, and to the extent that the police know that criminal acts have been committed, the perpetrator's desire is to influence police statements and testimony before the courts. In order to avoid criminal prosecution, criminal methods are used which either result in information on serious crime not coming to the police’s knowledge or make it impossible to gather sufficient evidence of prosecution and conviction. In order to prevent this from happening, we must take this brutalizing development seriously. A fundamental feature of our legal society is that criminals should be placed under criminal law in charge of the crimes committed. Threats to sources, informers and witnesses are therefore a serious attack on the legal community. Our ability to fight serious and organised crime is weakened if people don't dare stand up to what they know about fear of reprisals. Continuing this development, the result may be that the more malicious and ruthless the criminal is, the more likely he is to escape prosecution and conviction. We don't want it like that. Having said that, I would like to make it clear that even those who are suspected and intended to have committed the most serious crimes are entitled to a fair trial of their case. No one shall be judged until guilt is proved beyond reasonable doubt. This follows, among other things: by the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 6. It is therefore important for me and for the Christian People's Party to point out that the proposals for a change to the Criminal Procedures Act, to which we today agree, are in line with the requirements of the Human Rights Convention for a fair trial. The Court of Human Rights has in several legal decisions opened the way for derogations from the transparency of all legal documents because of the need to protect police practices, to protect witnesses against represals and for the sake of the security of the State. However, it is a condition that the interception of evidence is strictly necessary and that the disadvantages of the exemptions are adequately compensated by procedural rights and rules. These restrictions are taken into account in the legislative proposals on which the Christian People's Party ends today. Most hearing bodies have supported the Ministry of Justice's assessment that under certain conditions, to which I come back, there is a need to amend the Criminal Procedures Act, so that there is more opportunity to deny the defendant and the defender access to information held by the prosecution and to intercept evidence. For the Christian People's Party, this has just been an important issue for our assessments in the matter. Today, the Christian People's Party endorses a new paragraph 292a of the Criminal Procedures Act, which provides for the possibility of discontinuing evidence of «conditions which the prosecution authority will not invoke as evidence in the case». Strings and specific conditions are set out in the legal text for when such interception may occur. No transparency shall be denied to a person who would raise significant concerns in the interests of his defence. Therefore, transparency cannot be denied if the documents refused access to, or a possible explanation of witness, could reveal conditions that could lead to the victim being found free or punished, for example. because it has been provoked or if evidence has been obtained unlawfully. As a general rule, the case must relate to a crime which may result in a prison sentence for five years or more in order for interception to take place. The Christian People's Party believes it makes sense to limit, as a general rule, the possibility of interception of evidence to the most serious criminal proceedings. In addition, it has been important for us that the decision-making authority on the interception of evidence be added to the courts. This is an important legal certainty guarantee. There is also reason to believe that a court hearing will ensure good and clear police procedures for the use of informants and for which investigation methods are accepted. In addition, the right of a person to appoint a special lawyer in the event of a breach of evidence is an important procedural right and a further guarantee of legal certainty for that person. Furthermore, for the Christian People's Party, it has been central to ensure that the decision to refuse access to documents or to intercept evidence, which is a clear rule of principle to be taken by other than the Judicial Court. An unfortunate consequence of the judicial decision-making authority on such matters would be that the judge would have a different access to factual information in the case than the other actors. It is an important principle to be judged only on the basis of the information obtained in court. Knowledge of any other relevant facts may influence the final decision and therefore, as a general rule, must not be given to the judge who is to be judged in the criminal proceedings. The Christian People's Party is very pleased that the Government will appoint a separate selection to re-control the significance and impact of the changes in the law that we currently support. In this context, it is important to assess whether the legal certainty of the objectives has been weakened as a result of the legislative changes. We don't think that will happen, but we'll follow the sample's work and conclusions closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e595	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e598	In criminal law and criminal proceedings, I believe that the Committee should move very carefully in promoting new rules through committee treatment. The reason for this is, among other things: that there are legal certainty guarantees related to these cases and that they should be considered. The size should also be aware that when we promote matters through the Committee, the proceedings in the Chamber will be the only preparatory work to be dealt with by the courts. This is happening today, for example. Paragraph 272a, second paragraph, which has not been promoted either by the Advocate General or by others, but which has been formulated by examination in the Committee. The majority have avoided going into the reality of the matter, and have rather chosen to keep healthy political elections on why it is so important to make the changes to the law. That is why I see the need to clarify some of the issues that arise in the second paragraph of Section 272, which is completely new. The paragraph says: ‘If the case may develop in such a way that the information in respect of which access is refused may be of benefit to the person to whom the decision on the plea of inadmissibility or of the criminal question is addressed, the specialised judge in the judgment shall require the prosecution authority to transmit the order to the court in accordance with the rules laid down in the fourth paragraph of Section 262.’ Then is my question to the representative Marthinsen: how should this rule be understood? Is it not true that what is to be favored is at any time in court? I thought that you had an obligation to inform the matter fully, and that this is not something that changes along the way. I thought that was important legal guarantees, and that it was also important in relation to the EMK species. 6 on fair trial. I therefore think it is important that we now get an answer to this: what kind of development is what you think might later come to favor?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e610	It is probably right, as the representative Gjul says, that the negotiations in the Chamber will be the only one of the pre-processors. Then it amazes me, after sitting here for so long and listening to much of what has been said, that from the Labour Party you have not contributed a syllable to understanding anything. The working party has been concerned with one thing, and that is to criticise procedures. In that case, there is not much help for those who are to interpret laws. It says at least that the Workers' Party has denied any influence on what is to be understood as the processor of this law, if that is right, as the representative Gjul says. I think that theoretical issues can be set up that you use as a kind of snare or trap to lure someone into, in order to try to find out whether there might be a disagreement between statements of one or the other of the representatives of the government parties. In relation to the legal paragraph to which the representative Gjul refers, will my simple answer be that yes, is the paragraph of the law so difficult to understand? Can't things come in that at any given time be of greater importance than at any other time? I don't want to go into a debate about this here and now, given that the question is asked in a reply and probably only has a negative purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e619	I can say at least one thing: during this discussion I have become more and more happy that I am not a judge who is going to apply the new law that is being passed today. One cannot dismiss the question from the representative Gjul that these are so-called theoretical considerations. It is most relevant that the representative Gjul asks the question she is asking. Because the law that is now being passed in a hurry, I would say, is actually to be applied in practice. It is a pity for those who are going to apply this without enough material to lean on if you are in doubt about how to interpret it. Then I'll quote the Riksadvokat, for the nth time, who writes: ‘The hearing of the Advocate General’s Office has also shown that it is a significant challenge to design good and appropriate legislative regulation, which is why our opinion is given a few days after the deadline’. And I could add: which was a month. The exchange of lines that was just now, showed, as I see it, just the need to have a consultation round. Because with all due respect to report, there are actually a number of agencies around Norway that are more competent in this than what we are. I think we just have to realize that. That means that it would probably have been an advantage to have had this out in order to get the views that would have to be with the agencies that are working on it every day, in order to get an effective and quality-assured result. Then you'd probably have a more effective and thorough law, which I think would solve the problems that we've seen, and that we all agree on are problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e634	Again, the representative of Thorkildsen says that it is sad that there is no material to lean on. Yes, it is sad that neither the SV nor the Workers' Party have contributed any material in this matter. The material present is available in a majority position. It is a good material – it is a very good material. It is suitable for use. Supreme Court has previously said that this is an area that is in a type of law vacuum, or a legal room, or what I'm going to call it. And now it's doing something in relation to it, even though the representative Thorkildsen in all the lines and in his entire post today believes that the most important thing to say here now is that it's very much insecure, and that it's sad that there's no material to lean on. There are other instances, she says, that are more competent to deal with this than the Storting. I'm not going to go into assessing where the competence is best. But what has been done and done in relation to this matter has not happened in a legal room or in an area where there is no legal expertise. It is done in cooperation with the department, and the department has competence! We're not saying that we've done the maximum right thing, but we think we've done the best we could do. Had we had some drag help from two parties that claim to be contributing to the future of society, so maybe we could get even a little bit further if that were possible, and if that were a matter. Unfortunately, it has not been a matter for either the Workers' Party or SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e643	The estate adopts laws. A lot of the understanding of the content of the laws is coming from the pre-workers. And it is very special and indicative of how the majority lacks arguments in relation to the reality of the matter, that reference is made to the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party to do the job of making laborers as promises that you initially do not understand, and that you ask legitimate questions about, and that not even the Department and not even the Riksadvokat has proposed. That's why it's so interesting to hear: what does this majority really mean by a rule that you actually don't understand? Paragraph 272(a), second paragraph, on which the representative Gjul was present, reads: ‘If the case may develop in such a way that the information in respect of which access is refused may be of benefit to the person to whom the decision on the plea of inadmissibility or criminal proceedings is addressed, the court or tribunal shall require the court or tribunal to refer the case to the court or tribunal’, etc. What kind of developments in the matter is the majority here thinking about, and which this judge should be able to take into account? And at what stage should this judge do so? Will he do so at some point after he has made his decision, or is it such that this is an assessment he must sit in his office and think about when he has the matter for first reading? That's an important question, and that has to be answered by the majority, and I invite the representative Marthinsen to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e655	The representative of Storberget does exactly what the representative of Gjul did, asking for a specific paragraph and telling us how the court should understand it at all times. I'm not doing that. I'm not going into it. The working party has not been involved in this at any time. They've only been concerned about saying that we don't want to take a decision on this, we're pushing it in front of us. We have described in the contributions of the majority parties the different terms of what we're going to adopt tonight, and we've gone in and explained what these things mean. Then the lawyers in this room try to ask us questions that go on just concrete understanding of the law or interpretation. I won't be fooled into that. It would be unwise for me, because I expect that it would be exclusively – for a theologian – a loser's cause. But it does not prevent the existence of guidance and guidance descriptions in this, which I believe those who are going to use the tool can relate to. If it had been such a bad and as unclear point as the representative of Storberget wants it to, then I think, with all due respect for the department, you would hardly let it pass. So once again, the most important thing is to contribute to a solution in an area, not just criticise those who do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e660	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e663	The centre party is not represented in the Justice Committee, and I have listened with interest to the debate here today. I have to say it is with wonder that I record that several of the representatives of the majority of the committee repeatedly demand a response from the minority in relation to a legislative preparation for which it is perfectly obvious that it is the department that is responsible. It is the Government that has investigative responsibility for the Storting, and it is the Government that is going to do the preparatory work that several of the representatives of the government parties have now asked the minority to do. I have to say that it is mildly alarming – considering that there has been both a bad draft law, and that the Government itself has not been able to fully accept the legislative proposal that has been put forward – that the majority does not even intend to put the legal interpretation into this case, but simply shifts responsibility to the minority and says that the minority has, after all, not even made any attempt to take the initiative in the matter. It is perfectly legitimate to believe that the Government has done too bad work, and it is fully legitimate to ask for further investigations and that consultation processes are to be carried out. It is Storting's clear, legitimate right to promote such demands. It's been done before, and it's going to be done again. I will admit that it is difficult to balance between the need to have a rapid legal process and the need to have a reassuring procedure in a case like this. Let me make it quite clear: the Central Party also believes that a law is needed that can protect witnesses, sources and informants in an efficient and good way, and a law that can also help to improve the control of police methods. There is a documented trend over recent years that suggests that legislative changes are necessary to prevent serious criminal cases from being imposed for reasons of sources and the safety of informants, as in the case that has been the direct cause of the legislative proposal we are now seeing. However, the Ministry has gone a long way in recognising the weaknesses of the preparation of the law — yes, so far it has gone, that the proposal for the Stortinget calls for the appointment of a sample to check the rules that are now being proposed. It is mildly an eye-catching way of presenting legislative proposals to the Storting. That work should have been done in advance. Since the Central Party is not represented in the Committee, I should just briefly justify our position and our vote, but it is clear what it will be. On the basis of what we have been able to see so far, and what I have heard in the debate today, the Central Party will support the Workers' Party's proposal and the SV for return to get a more thorough consultation from the relevant bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e672	Many suggest that offenders are more perpetrators of violence than before or threaten to engage in violence against those who have information in criminal matters. The criminal justice system's ability to combat serious crime is weakened if people do not dare to stand up to what they know about criminal offences. The more malicious and reckless the criminal, the more difficult it becomes to be judged. In recent years, the Ministry of Justice has taken several measures to combat the use of threats and violence against sources, informers and witnesses in criminal matters. Although much has been done to protect police sources and informants, further action is still needed. The so-called heroin case, which was the basis of the Supreme Court's ruling on 5 September 2002, showed this. The case ended, as is well known, that the Advocate General saw the need to settle a serious drug case, because the Committee of Appeals found that the prosecution authority had to provide the defendant with the defendant's defence of the police investigation documents in time before the defendant was apprehended. The prosecution authority feared that transparency would lead to the source of the case being known to the defendants, which would have led to an unacceptable risk to the sources. The Committee of Dearest Targets made it clear that it was a legislative task to assess whether the Criminal Procedures Act should be amended, so that it was possible to exclude source information from transparency and evidence. The reactions after the case was closed were many and strong. That, in my view, is the basis for claiming that several cases with the same outcome can help to weaken public confidence in justice. As Minister of Justice, I felt a responsibility. There was a need for a rapid legislative follow-up to the case. The solution I went into the proposition was two-part: 1) A legislative proposal such as: makes it more possible to refuse access to documents and evidence in a situation where the disclosure or presentation of evidence may endanger the life, health or freedom of any person. In order to ensure the legal certainty of the defendant, it was a condition that refusal of access or proof cannot be decided if it raises significant concerns for the defence of the defendant. 2) The need to continue working on the important and difficult issues raised by the case, I suggested that a separate sample be appointed to check the rules proposed. I still believe that this was the best way of dealing with the matter, and I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the main features of the proposal presented. I take note that a minority in the committee is going to send the proposition back to the ministry for review. Such a procedure would allow Stortinget to deal with a legislative proposal in the 2004 case at the earliest. In the meantime, we had to hope that there were no further cases in which the prosecution authority was forced to suspend the prosecution. There would be a frightful protection of trust in justice, and I am glad that there is no majority in the Committee for such an approach. I have noticed that on some points the majority of the committee has voted in favour of a somewhat different solution than in the legislative proposal. In particular, it is proposed that the application for refusal of access or proof should always be dealt with by a specially appointed judge and that information on the judgment should be communicated to the judicial authority only if the case develops in such a way that the information in question may be of benefit to the defendant. The Ministry has had no decisive objection to such a solution as long as the court has the right to reverse the judgment and to provide transparency if the case develops in such a way that the conditions for refusal of transparency are no longer fulfilled. Such access is important both for reasons of legal certainty and for the purposes of the European Convention on Human Rights, as interpreted by the Strasbourg Court of Justice. I agree that the bill that Odelstinget is now dealing with raises questions that require further follow-up. That need will be met by the appointment of a separate sample by the Ministry of Justice to back-check the changes in the law that are being dealt with by Odelstinget today. I would also like to ask the legislative committee to consider whether there should be general legal rules on provocation and infiltration and, where appropriate, to propose this. If it turns out that the rules that are now being adopted are not the best solution, I will come back to Stortinget with a new bill. Let me add: the Supreme Court's Committee on Loved Targets has established that, in relation to the issue raised by the heroin case, there was no legal basis. The Supreme Court then made it quite clear that the legislator had to take an initiative. It cannot be a weakness that the legislator takes an initiative to seal a hole in the law. If it turns out that there are further holes in the law, it cannot be a weakness if you come back and close the holes. Why can it be that there can be some holes in the law in relation to criminals? Well, that's because we're all referred to not in any way beyond the obligations we have under the European Convention on Human Rights. It is then that the solution taken here, which has been criticised by the minority in the Committee, is an intermediate solution between exactly what the Advocate General raised and what the Ministry of Justice has promoted. I feel that the intermediate solution lies well within the consultation issues that were sent out in advance. Promoting law where there was no law in the past is a step forward. Being humble to say that it can be further developed is necessary legal adjustment. To sit still is to be passive.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e704	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e707	On the essential points of this proposal, the majority here in the Chamber has chosen to amend the Government's proposal. It is tempting to ask the Minister of Justice how he evaluates these changes at all, and whether it is such that the government parties now believe that the solution that the majority, i.e. the government parties on the Stortinget, has come, is the best. That's not what the Minister of Justice said now, that this was to close a law hole again. That's not how you've justified the odelstungsproposition. On page 55, it says: ‘At the same time, the Ministry has considered it important to submit a legislative proposal as soon as possible to address the need for legislative changes identified by the Committee on Love on 5 September 2002’ — in the heroin issue. That was the reason why this was to be presented quickly, in order to address the need for this case. It wasn't to seal a illustrious room. Is it so that the reason for this change in law has now changed since the odelstingsproposition was presented, and that now suddenly there is another reason, all the time in full taboo, among other things. in a letter to the Committee dated 7 March, it states that ‘it is not possible to say with certainty that the case would or would not have had another outcome had it been dealt with in accordance with the rules currently proposed’. It is the government parties and the Progressive Party's fight against the brutal crime that cannot really be established. Is it now that a different reason for this law than the original one is that you wanted to fix the relationship around the heroin issue? I think it is time for the Minister of Justice to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e719	Sometimes I would like Luther's catechism to be taken into account, where it's called taking one's next in the best sense. That's what I'm going to do on this question as well. I started by stating that the Supreme Court's case-law selection in a case-by-case balance ended with the conclusion that even if they could see that information was to be intercepted, the question was not to be resolved by the legislation in force. It was a mandate for the legislator. That justification has been used by the Ministry to promote the case. This justification is provided both through the procedure here and through what has happened further. In very selective quotation art from the department's response, one can then skip the following, in the same letter of 7 March: ‘But it is important to note that the need to suspend the prosecution will rarely occur if the police and the prosecution authorities avoid making significant errors during the investigation and can demonstrate that such errors have not been committed. The Ministry's agreement to the work of the Directorate of Police and the Advocate-General on a proposal for a national register of informants and national guidelines for information processing must be seen in this context. [[(see section 4.4). (proposition page 31)]] It is noted that it is the combination of good legislative work and good police work that ensures that criminals of the kind affected here, who threaten informants, endanger lives and health, do not escape. It's the combination, and it's in the proposition, and it's referred to in the letter of March 7th, but it obviously doesn't suit the opposition to quote the letter in full.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e733	It cannot be a weakness, however, that the government is taking the initiative to try to avoid a situation similar to the one we faced in the heroin case, said Minister of Justice Dørum. No, but it may not be a weakness either that an opposition that considers itself to be extremely responsible points out that taking a single case, which at the same time is impossible for us to know what the facts are in that case, can be problematic, especially in combination with the idea of a five-day consultation period, it is extended to a month, after strong pressure, and then you change the proposal without having sent it to the hearing, despite the fact that you have warned against it. One might say that we have been selective in relation to the consultation extracts that we have addressed. But I think anyone else would do exactly the same thing as us if they had been interested in what the department has previously meant. If we hadn't drawn out those parts of the quotations where we have just pointed out that the procedure that has been applied here is actually not responsible, because this is what this is all about. It is therefore the case that both the Ministry of Justice and the Advocate General have pointed out that if you wanted to make the changes that have been made in committee, you would have had to have been consulted in advance in order to ensure that this is the case. It's okay enough that we have a Minister of Justice who wants to show the power of action, but then one should also be sure that we get a different result if we get into a similar situation as the one we were in. That's what's the point here. There can be no point in being able to act just to show action.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e740	One of the reasons why the ministry felt that the Riksadvokat's proposal had to be reconsulted was that we thought it might be able to cross the commitments with respect to the European Convention on Human Rights. We couldn't take the chance on that. We believe that what has been presented as an interim solution by the Committee, that a judicial right still has the ability to exercise control and is quoted in the comments of the majority in the committee position, is within our obligations. That's the point we felt we couldn't go too fast. It is quite strange that the Workers' Party and SV then almost criticize us for being careful at a point where we could risk crossing the concerns of the EMK. When that happens, it has to be because you have to get hold of death and life and shoot down this proposal. One small thing – just to take the quote: it's not a big deal, but the representative Thorkildsen has now spoken several times in five days. That was ten. But ten days is actually also too small. That's why it was four weeks. So it's just a tiny example of how to cut and glue to build a pretty powerful polemic. So it's that way that it could be that when you get as strong in the polemics, maybe the distance doesn't have to be that big in reality. Maybe it's like this. I choose to stick to it, because I admit – and I think everyone should – that we are entering into a difficult field against organised crime. This field would be easy if we didn't take human rights considerations. But because we're going to take human rights considerations, we had to move forward in such a way that where there was a lack of legislation in accordance with the love of the Supreme Court, we had to get legislation. Because we think we can get better insight, we're going to check it out. Because we think the police can do a better job, it's mentioned in the proposition, page 31, and in my letter to the committee. And because I think the police's methods of infiltration and provocation should be legalized, I said it in my post. This is then developing the legal work of society to combat organised crime. We can't take rest in that fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e748	We've stayed a long time at the quote on page 55 of Ot.prp. No 24th@item: I'll read it all this time: ‘The Advocate General’s proposal deserves to be thoroughly evaluated but raises questions that would require further investigation and a separate hearing.’ So the minority today feels that the government parties at Stortinget come up with the model that we perceive that the Riksadvokat and the department believe requires their own hearing and further investigation. So you should probably go a little cautiously in the doors when you characterize as the strongest one who now believes that you should have done this. I want to ask the Minister of Justice about this: has anything really happened in relation to this legal process that would make this quote less topical today? Isn't it true that the objections that have come, more than ever, have updated a new round? Is it not also the case when we are faced with this type of legislation – which is quite intrusive, both in terms of the methods that the police have, and where we also intervene in relation to the legal certainty of the accused – that precisely this type of legislation could deserve extra thorough investigation and, to the extent that an extra thorough treatment in the Stortinget, and, in any case, a broad majority behind it, so as to avoid having such discussions which actually spoiled much of how to understand the whole law?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e758	I am invisibly grateful for this question, because it reveals the opposition's debate technique. The Advocate General agreed on a system in which the question was always to be decided by a separate judge. Always. When we in the department were wondering about it and referring to the question of a special hearing, it was because we are generally concerned with the demands of our human rights obligations. At that time, a major problem with the Riksadvokat’s proposal could be that it could close the proceedings for the subsequent revision of the court’s decision if circumstances changed. That's why we had to say what we said for legal certainty. Then the majority of the committee has provided an interim solution. That interim solution has been presented by the majority of the Committee, but I can repeat it, namely that a specific judge is required to settle the issue, but a judicial right shall have the right to re-open and accept the evidence if the case develops in such a way that the conditions for refusal of access and evidence are no longer fulfilled. This has actually been mentioned by the majority on page 10 of the vote, where they are among others. says that: ‘The majority consider that the judicial authority should initially be able to exercise such a control function in the light of the judgment which the prosecution authority should transmit confidentially’. In other words, premises have been given that are marked by legal certainty. And then we have the paradox that legal security arguments give a cross of thought to an opposition that spends most of its time criticizing me as Minister of Justice for not being too busy about it. This whole reasoning came out because you choose to mix the quotations as it suits you, in order to arrive at the conclusion that this should be sent back. The point is that we're doing a legal improvement work that's necessary. Could it be that we need improvements later? It could be, because crime is evolving. That's why I've taken the initiative to do that. But we can't lean back and rest. And that's the position that the Workers' Party and SV have chosen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e772	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e775	This debate has to a large extent been marked by the fact that none of us have felt particularly inclined to go into the reality of some of the paragraphs to which Odelstinget has been invited today. There has been a debate that has been very much about making more or less reasoned claims, both about itself and about the opposition, in relation to the will to do something against serious crime. It should teach us one thing – and it applies to all of us. It is that in some criminal cases there may be a great need to change both in criminal proceedings and in criminal law. Some things can clearly create such a need. However, such individual cases often form the worst basis for making general rules. And that makes it a very difficult task for all of us. These are crucial issues we are facing, and most of us would like to have been able to deal with a great deal of unanimity in this House, so that there was no doubt about how these should be interpreted. With the processing – and the lack of processing – that many of these provisions actually have, we in the Workers' Party are afraid that we have adopted provisions that will not actually be effective. That's the background for us to resist. To the extent that the Minister of Justice wants to refer to inaction, by actually saying that this job has to go through one more time, this job should be sent out to the hearing one more time, this job should be taken one more time, it's true seas that it should be the reverse of inaction. The passivity now occurs when the lights turn off in this hall and the government parties can go home and hit their chests and say, "Now we've done the job." That's when the passivity occurs to a large extent – while the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, and fortunately also the Center Party, well signaled activity, because here we actually need to improve in relation to the rules that are there. There are none of the questions raised in today's debate, which have been given real answers, where one has addressed the appeal points that have been referred to. There is no reason to doubt that many of the issues raised in today's debate provide a basis for uncertainty. Firstly, the majority today chooses a different solution at a rather significant point than the one proposed by the Government. There is in itself a sound basis to stop and at least ask: What is the best, Government's proposal or the majority here on the house? And it's not any proposal, it's a proposal that's related to the issue of its validity to the Human Rights Convention. Shouldn't we stop and evaluate it? Secondly, the majority of the house here have chosen a solution that the Government has said would require more investigation. Does it give any reason to stop? Yes, to a great extent. It provides a basis for requiring more activity. And finally, in a letter to the Committee, the Board of Directors pointed out that it is not certain whether the law would just work in the matter in question this debate has its origins. Then it's kind of pathetic to hear the representatives of Dybevig and Ellingen be up on this pulpit and accuse all of us of not wanting to do anything about these serious things, while we know that you yourself are in favour of a provision that you're actually uncertain about. The conclusion of this must be that this only creates ambiguity and passivity, and I perceive it to be a weakened Ministry of Justice and a weakened Minister of Justice who, in many ways, comes short on important issues in the fight against crime in Norway and abroad. It also turns out that, to the extent that we are going to adopt both new methods and provisions that have to do with fundamental legal certainty guarantees for most people, it is high time that we start a completely different process from the one we have seen here today. There should be no doubt that, on the part of the Labour Party, we will continue to work on this issue and, if necessary, present our own proposals or call on the Government to make proposals, so that solutions can be found to the problems which I am sure will arise when the Court will begin to deal with such situations in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e796	The design of today's bill is complicated. The text of the law shall serve several purposes. Right will increase the criminal justice system’s ability to combat serious organised crime. The right will tackle an increasing problem with witnesses, sources and informants, namely that they are increasingly exposed to threats, violence and reprisals because they provide information in criminal cases that are convicted. On the right, the legislative changes are worthy of a rule of law, with considerable emphasis on the fact that the procedures for the interception of access to documents are to be governed by the European Convention on Human Rights, EMC. It must never be in our society of justice that the abduction will win over justice. That some are willing to testify and perhaps sacrifice their own lives in the most extreme cases, should be taken as a sign that trust in the legal community is deeply rooted in many. The need to amend the legislation was evident in the specific heroin issue we were familiar with in September 2002. The Supreme Court upheld the defendant's request for access to police investigation documents during the time before the defendant was apprehended. The prosecution authority thus considered it necessary to waive an action for the retention of 35 kg of heroin in the interests of the security of police sources if the defendant and the defendant were given access to all the documents in the case. We can't do like the Workers' Party and SV here today, stick our head in the sand and hope it goes over. The working party's active justice policy even told the VG that he believes there will be more similar issues. What would Storberget have said to VG the next time about the Workers' Party and SV's vision had been given a majority here today? Right-wing takes responsibility – we take responsibility for legal certainty towards the target, we take responsibility for the privacy of sources, and we take responsibility for the intentions of the EMK. In many cases, the police are highly dependent on sources and informants to expose serious crime. We must remember that the most serious and organised criminal environments are often very closed. In the MC case that recently went to court, we were shown how closed this organized environment is. For the police, the consideration of a source or informant's life will be absolutely central. The lack of information about a case in question may lead to a failure to proceed with the matter. The police and prosecution authorities have apparently already once considered the threat to be so great that the possibility of exposing serious crime must give way to the concern of the source's life and health. This weakens public confidence in the criminal justice system. The more raw and ruthless a criminal is, the more threats he poses, the greater is the possibility that he will not be accused and condemned for his lies, if the law is not changed. The legislative changes will provide greater security for police informants and sources. They also ensure better protection of police methodology and cooperation with foreign police authorities. The working party and SV show a great deal of casualty to the change in the law. It's incomprehensible that they don't join these laws. The working party and SV's concern that the legislative changes have not been implemented enough can be taken seriously. Firstly, the draft law is very well drafted. So to say all the hearing bodies thought there was a clear need for legislative changes. Secondly, an independent judge of his own will decide whether or not to refuse access to the file or proof of information not to be provided as evidence in the case. In addition, the decision may be appealed against. Thirdly, there is a five-year penalty framework for refusing access to documents. Fourthly, the person concerned will be appointed to a special lawyer when the court deals with the issue of access to the file. There is no requirement for this under the European Convention on Human Rights. However, consideration of the interests of the intended party indicates that the majority will provide an additional legal certainty guarantee. Finally, a thorough review and review of the legislative changes will be carried out to ensure that they ensure legal certainty and that they have the desired effect. The working party and SV have no other argument than that the consultation period has been too short. The consultation period was even extended by four weeks. How in the world have we been able to get so many well-founded back games? The Advocate General has even made suggestions on how this can be resolved. This is not a matter of time, but actually of quality. Right wanted to find optimal solutions to an unsustainable situation in our legal system. It is directly irresponsible to postpone the matter. So the working party and SV have not put on the paper a single sentence on how and what they want changed in the law. Nor have they been able to participate in a compromise, not even to review the new case-law. The reality is that the Working Party and SV can never reconcile full access to documents with the protection of sources and source materials. The reality may be that the Workers' Party and SV do not want restrictions on access to documents, as it is perhaps most convenient not to mean anything at all, but to hide behind the fact that the consultation period and the processing time have been too short. Then I don't understand that the statements from Storberget to VG could come immediately after the Riksadvokat's decision to appeal to the heroin case. The right and the majority have modified and adapted the Government's legislative proposals so that witnesses are protected, serious criminal cases are brought before the judiciary, their rights are respected by a judge of their own and a specially appointed lawyer. Privacy and legal certainty have been ensured, as have the articles in the EMK.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e832	What obviously creates a problem is that the majority of the Judicial Committee has chosen to give what the majority believes for the accused is safer and better legal certainty than what was proposed by the Government. This means, therefore, that what was unquestionably well worked through and had consultation deadlines, nevertheless the majority of the Judicial Committee wished for more legal certainty. Then it becomes a little strange to hear, even after the Council of State said it, that the representative Storberget still points out that the majority has chosen a solution that the Government has said must be reconsulted. What the Council of State said, at least as I understood it, was that the Riksadvokat's original proposal for a solution would have to be re-consulted, because of the European Convention on Human Rights. The Council of State also stated equally clearly that the solution reached by the majority of the Committee does not need a new consultation, because it will not have the same problem with regard to the European Convention on Human Rights. There was also a question from Storberget about, if there were documents that would show that the evidence had been obtained unlawfully, etc., a judge would then assess the security of, for example, a witness or informant as more or less important than obtaining this. That's exactly why we have a court-martial to take these things, to just assess whether it needs to be presented anyway, even though it may cause problems for an informant. So what's the result? The result is not that it necessarily comes out, but perhaps the police choose to draw the case. It may also be the case in this case that if there is something that is the result of the Workers' Party's solution, there is nothing happening. The worst thing that can happen with us is that nothing happens. So, no matter how bad things go, it doesn't get any worse than what the Workers' Party is doing now. Finally, I just want to say that it is gratifying to me that the representative Thorkildsen is concerned with my tone in this room. Then there may also be a hope of a positive change in her own way of toneing statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e841	The regulatory time is now over. However, the President will propose that this meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e844	There has been a long and interesting debate. My conclusion is that whoever jumps forward from responsibility and previous statements is Knut Storberget. If there are any people who lack credibility in this room tonight, that representative is. Let's take a look at what he said on 9 September last year about this matter. He sat in the newspaper and responded to enquiries from people who contacted him online. In the opening review: ‘‘We need to amend the law. Lawyer and politician Knut Storberget believes that the laws need to be changed after the heroin scandal.’ [[Ap]] Then he got some timely questions, the goodness of the Great Mountains. Among other things, he received an enquiry — it is under the heading ‘Hån v Norwegian jurisprudence’. ‘In view of the fact that an ordinary Norwegian citizen is penalised for minors such as smuggling. one litre of alcohol or speeding intrusions, what will you do specifically to ensure that the two defendants in this particular case get their deserved punishment? So far, Norway's power and justice elite has made themselves laughs, deriding the Norwegian people's sense of justice. Wish you're concrete on this matter, and not as airy as you tend...» The reply of the representative Storberget is as follows: ‘I believe we still need to change the law so that the police do not have to disclose all their information in such cases.’ He got another enquiry, from a lady who wondered if you could put a third instance outside the established system – that is, something you have here in the proposal. And what did the representative Storberget say? Of course he was a follower of this – last fall, but he is not tonight! – and replied: ‘I share a lot of your opinion and also apply to a third party to check what is to be exempted from the defence.’ But where is the representative of Storberget tonight? He has signed out, and he chooses to jump from what he himself has said. Actually, he won't get away with it. It is probably not just me who can find out what the representative Storberget has said. So I expect that reality has caught him. You talk about credibility and action here tonight – in which case we are more who are going to struggle with it. So to another heading, the follow-up of the Judicial scandal, before the question from one who contacted Storberget: ‘What do you want to do to follow up this judicial scandal for which Stortinget has overall responsibility! This is a gross mockery of law-abiding citizens!’ Large mountain black: «The matter must be dealt with in Stortingen now in the harvest; the law must be amended. I will contribute to that." So where is the contribution to Mr Storberget? The contribution is that he has signed out in all respects and does not want to take responsibility for what he has bluffed the voters with – and those who contacted him that evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e884	I took the word – not for polemics – because the opposition has its position, and it is part of the political dispute that it is so, but when the opposition tells what the government means, I must actually be allowed to speak. Now the representative of Storberget has tried several times, by repeating himself, to make it appear that the solution adopted by the Justice Committee on the relationship between the judiciary and the Riksadvokat’s proposal requires a new hearing. I said in my speech, and I have said it before, that precisely because the majority's proposal is different from the Riksadvokat proposal and is an intermediate solution, and because the judicial court becomes a control body, the Ministry/Minister of Justice has thought that one should not have a new hearing, as we believe it is clear of the possible conflicts that can arise with the European Convention on Human Rights. It is the government's position, and then the government's position is not changed even if the representative Storberget has tried twice to define it differently by not quoting what is actually written. Then the opposition's speakers quoted a letter of March 7th, but avoided quoting the following – and then I'm going to supplement the quotations; it's all about, among other things. on the famous case of the Committee on Foreign Affairs: ‘In view of the circumstances of the specific case, it is also not desirable to examine such an assessment.’ The principle is that you don't go into a case before the courts. Then I also say in my reply to the committee: ‘What can be ascertained with certainty is that the proposals of the Ministry extend the right to derogate from the right of access and the right to provide evidence, so that some cases may have a different outcome from those of today’s rules.’ So it says, as it says in the proposition, that there are some issues where it won't be possible to make exceptions. This is because we are faced with fundamental legal certainty, including: in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights. That's what the letter says: ‘But it is important to note that the need to suspend the prosecution will rarely occur if the police and the prosecution authorities avoid making significant errors during the investigation and can demonstrate that such errors have not been committed. The Ministry's agreement to the work of the Police Directorate and the National Advocate-General on a proposal for a national register of informants and national guidelines for information processing must be seen in this context. [[(see section 4.4). (proposition page 31)]] To be on the safe side in relation to issues called infiltration and provocation, I said from this pulpit that we have come to the point where we have to legislate and take account of the police, so that the police will not miss out on a case, and for the sake of legal certainty for those who are being prosecuted. Then we are in a development effort to combat organised crime on the ground of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e910	The representative of Ellingen is using fairly hard words, there are questions about lies or bluffs. I feel that I just need to comment on the questions asked in Dagbladet on 9 September. I am so pleased that the representative does not take all of them, but in the case of the three he is in, it is quite clear that the answers that are given, I am fully aware. We have to change the law. We need to provide a situation where the police are not obliged to provide all the information. I have also tried to explain in the debate today that the legislative proposal is unlikely to be fully complied with. We can actually get a collision, without the majority pointing to what you want to do with it. In situations where, for example: Experiences that there is investigational material that could lead to acquittal, but where there is a risk to someone's life, the documents should be out, on the basis of the majority's proposal – and the representative Kukkestad concluded that the case had to be settled. Yes, then you have to settle the matter. Then you haven't solved the problem. We in the minority also want to be able to solve such a problem – of course. That's the core of the matter. So I fully agree with the newspaper's questions and answers. I think it was on the last question that I answered that I was starting to get tired – there were many and eager questions, there was a heated situation – and I replied that I was going home to make children – and we have a deadline of 6 June.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e920	It has been tried to make a major part of this debate that the Stortinget and the majority of the Stortinge have in fact made changes to the Ministry's legislative proposals. Now Minister of Justice Dørum has explained in a good way what is behind the case, what has happened in the case. And from my point of view, as a representative of the majority and the rapporteur, it has actually been that I have spoken to the Minister of Justice, we have had a dialogue. We've talked the same way the Labour Party has talked to its Justice Ministers, when they've had it. What is irresponsible in this, seems to me to be completely incomprehensible. What has been the starting point, is to improve an already good bill at the point where the Workers' Party and SV have spent all their energy saying that here it has to be done grips, here one has to meet the Riksadvokat. Yes, that's exactly what the majority has done. The only people who serve at the Bigbergets, Workers' Party, SVs and the Central Party's attempts to question this matter are the most brutal criminals – those who press, those who threaten, those who use violence against witnesses, police and informants. It's sad that the Workers' Party is doing this. I am not surprised, and the Central Party can no longer know where one has in criminal policy. The Labour Party even tries to present itself as active in this matter, while the majority here is passive. Yes, the activity in the hall has been very little to say on. The activity of weakening the case has been great in the important matter that we have up today, but it is also the only activity that we have been able to track. We even postponed this matter in the committee pending comments from the Workers' Party and SV. They finally came, but then completely without substance, completely without relation to the reality of the matter. The working party and Storberget have been revealed so thoroughly this evening that further comments would be unnecessary. The majority is acting. We stand for a policy that can protect society from the most brutal criminals. Unfortunately, the working party has declared itself in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e936	Jan Arild Ellingsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e939	I will allow myself to respond to the previous input from the representative Storberget about attitudes to change the law. It is a fact that the representative under this season under the direction of the newspaper repeatedly claimed that he would change the law, while he actually let not do it tonight. Then it must be allowed to ask questions about credibility here. It is, however, about attitude and respect. And because you have a communication against it, the representative can of course be in doubt that I am going a long way in making claims. I assume that the representative himself will find the answer when he sees what he has said. I have no problem standing for what I have said, because I have referred to what Storberget himself has said, so for my part the reference page should be okay enough. Otherwise, I registered that the representative was finally interested in something he has at least lived up to, and I then wish him good luck with that piece at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e950	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 464]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e966	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 468]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e979	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e1210	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e1220	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e1227	During the debate, Mr Gjul, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, put forward the following proposals: «Ot.prp. No 24 on the Law amending the Criminal Procedures Act, etc. [[2002-2003]] [[restrictions on access to access to documents and evidence]] sent back to the Government.’;» This proposal by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left is the first thing to be voted on. The central party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e1604	Before voting on the Committee's position, the President will first draw attention to some minor technical corrections in the legislative text. This applies under II, where, before § 272(a) is added, and under III, where the three dots are to be replaced by Law 10 January 2003 No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they are going against the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e1624	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party to vote against as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e1638	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e1942	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e1952	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-27-lower.ana.ud520e1963	There is no record.
