ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e57	The representative of the Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Akershu County, Sverre Myrli, has taken the seat. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 1 to 3 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e105	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 25 minutes, the Right 20 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes and the Centre Party, the Left and the Coastal Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e114	I am pleased that the Government gets an impact on the broad lines of its draft budget for Framework Areas 12 and 13. Some changes have been made by the agreement with the Workers' Party and subsequent adjustments in agreement with the Government Parties of the Committee. In its draft budget, the Government has particular attention to the organisation of more renewable energy production and research and development related to gas power with CO2 management. Last winter's experience, with a great shortage of power and high electricity prices, clearly showed our vulnerability to the weather dependence that characterises both the generation and the supply capacity of electricity. In order to counteract the recurrence of the similar situation, the Government is working along several main lines which can provide sufficient energy both in the short and long term and contribute to more stable and predictable electricity prices. It will therefore be the first to present a separate notification on security of supply, where the Stortinget is invited to a wide-ranging discussion of energy policy and measures that can safeguard the above interests and better safeguard consumers' rights. The 2004 budget therefore has a device and profile where the investment in new and renewable energy is record high. Enova is awarded a significant additional grant and research on environmentally friendly gas power technology is continued and strengthened. The government also strongly focuses on continuing opportunities for hydropower generation through the modernisation and upgrading of existing hydropower plants. To this end, in its draft budget, and later in the conciliation with the Workers' Party, the Government, through fiscal instruments, wanted to create incentives for triggering measures to ensure that these processes are carried out. Over several years there has been an imbalance in transmission costs of power between different parts of the country. The objective of ensuring full cohesion has been estimated to be about 60 million. kr. The government will follow this up for the next year by granting an additional 20 million. kr for this purpose. The total amount of 40 million. kr represents a significant uplift to ensure greater equality of transmission costs in 2004. I am pleased that this too was continued in the agreement with the Workers' Party. In a number of places in the country, there is a high risk of clay scrapping, with the uncertainty that this creates for many, both businesses and households. The need for action is significant. The government takes this seriously and has therefore proposed to increase efforts in this area in 2004. This is also ensured in the agreement with the Workers' Party. Let me also express satisfaction at the allocation of funds to the Green Hydrogen project in 2004. The agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party ensures the project 5 million. kr next year and therefore contributes to the continuation of this in line with decisions taken in connection with the revised budget for the current year. The Ministry of the Environment's budget is marked by the Government's desire to step up efforts to protect biodiversity. A number of areas of protection have already been established and new ones are planned next year. The budget therefore allocates funds to cover protection areas already adopted and new 18 million. SEK is set aside for the creation of new ones. Voluntary protection will be an important form of work and an important part of the strategy for achieving this objective, but without the State depriving itself of the right to other instruments where necessary. The government focuses significantly on the need to clean up old environmental sins. The order authorisation for this purpose is therefore increased by 5 million. kr. Next year. However, the need is greater. The effort must therefore be continued, and preferably reinforced, in the coming years. Aid to environmental organisations will be maintained at the current level. That means they'll be able to continue the activity. They will therefore continue to be important partners for a better environment and promote an even more offensive environmental policy. At the same time, Green Everyday will receive 2 million. kr. Of heading 73. Kalking is a repetition of the debate on the Ministry of the Environment's budget each year. In its draft budget, the government has set aside a cut of 15 million. kr. in relation to the current year. The reduction is based on professional assessments, including: by the Directorate for Nature Management, which suggests that many investments have been made and that transfers have been relatively stable over several years, despite significant reductions in acid rain during the same period. The recommendations suggest that the reduction of appropriations is professionally sound and also provide increased scope for enhanced fight against salmon diseases. However, through the agreement with the Workers' Party and the government parties in the Committee, the liming item has been reinforced by 3 million. kr. An equivalent amount has been committed to strengthen the preventive part of the predatory game policy. Let me conclude by saying that the Committee's budgetary process has been very successful. There is reason to stress the parties' willingness to ensure good solutions and a good and orderly process. In particular, I would like to thank the Labour Party, which has contributed constructively to a budgetary solution and by creating a good working document for both the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Environmental Protection in 2004. Let me also clarify an error in the vote that members of the Committee have been informed about this morning. It is linked to Chapter 1800 under the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy. It is shown that entry 1 has to be reduced by 4 million. kr. That's four million. kr. plus that's going to be in that entry. We're going to have a corresponding minus of heading 72, which is going on climate action in the Baltic Sea regions. These are the tables that do not match the text of the configuration. To bring this into line, I pointed out the actual error in the setting. With this I recommend the setting that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e146	The chairperson of the Committee has then corrected the errors in the configuration which he himself has mentioned. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e151	The situation on the power market in the last year has been dramatic, with high electricity prices. This has led to people not being able to pay their electricity bill, and it has led to an approximate situation in the energy market. The representative Rahm said a few weeks ago in a TV show called Tabloid that this year the situation would not be as tight as last year, because Sweden would enter with new capacity and new production in the market. I wonder if the representative could say a little about what kind of power sources are here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e158	I have a certain idea that the representative Klungland has an idea of what the answer to that question is. Nor do I have any problems saying that I have the same understanding that he has when it comes to where this force comes from. What is the situation in view of the coming winters is that we have a greater spare capacity as a result of increased production opportunities in Sweden. There are power sources from which we initially want to import as much as possible. For this very reason, the Government is offensive in order to make Norway more independent of the type of force from abroad by building more power based on new renewable sources in Norway. There are governments with offensive policies. Klungland knows the details of it. I would encourage both Klungland and the Workers' Party to join that strategy, because it will probably provide the environmental answers on the energy side that we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e167	During the power crisis last winter, we saw that the only thing that was done by the Christian People's Party was sending people to the social office to help them pay the electricity bill. Both Minister of Oil and Energy Einar Steensnæs and parliamentary leader Jon Lilletun were on the screen for the best transmission time and promised to help the disadvantaged with the bill, only they went to the social office. It turned out in retrospect that only the very few people really got some help. I would therefore like to ask the representative of the Christian People's Party the next time we experience the results of the Party's misguided energy policy, come up with similar promises, or if there has been a change in strategy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e174	I can say for information for Øyvind Vaksdal that the strategy on the energy sector by the Government is the same as it has always been in the two years we have been in government. It is possible that Øyvind Waksdal has not discovered it. I would then like to be allowed to clarify it clearly to him. So when it comes to what happened last winter, we have good hopes that the same situation will not arise again. That's partly because we have a different weather situation now. We have better filling levels in the warehouses as well as greater spare capacity, which in total can help create more predictable and stable electricity prices for consumers. That's why it's our hope that this winter we're now going to meet, we're going to avoid a situation similar to last year. In the case of — in concrete terms — the question of the snow that fell last year, to which Mr Vaksdal is concerned, it is only to say that if a situation should arise, it is clear that the Government will assess the way in which action can be targeted in order to possibly help those who need it most. With that, there is something that the Government itself must consider on an ongoing basis if the situation so requires.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e183	SV has previously invited the Government to cooperate in energy policy precisely to avoid the electricity prices that you had last winter. We're still on it. We want more ambitions than the government itself has, and challenge, among other things. on energy efficiency, on industrial saving and on new renewable energy. But I think it's a passivity from the government's side to the challenges that SV presents, and therefore ask if you're interested in participating in a collaboration to do something about power prices and power crisis without building heavily impure gas power plants. The second question is related to a proposal addressed by SV on increased extraction rates in the North Sea using CO2 injection. Gunnar Berge and others have gone out supporting such a policy, a lot of companies are working on this, but the government seems to give priority to new areas in the north. What's the best part?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e190	Of course, I welcome the invitation from SV to cooperate on energy policy. I think it might have been an advantage if there could be such a broad common understanding of what the situation really is in this field that we could also concentrate more on the Biggest on the main challenges. I fully agree with the representative of Langeland that the aim must be to create new power combined with saving and more rational use of the power we have, without using more polluting energy sources. I fully support Hallgeir Langeland. With regard to the injection of CO2, which has come up especially recently, this is a strategy that also the Christian People's Party seems to be very interesting. The crucial thing for the Christian People's Party is not necessarily how to use CO2, but the crucial thing is that we can reduce emissions and eliminate emissions as much as possible. That is what is the challenge of CO2, and in this way also the action mentioned by Langeland is of considerable interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e199	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e203	For the Workers' Party, the fight against unemployment is the main political challenge. The fact that people who want to work are pushed into unemployment is the greatest challenge for the welfare community. Therefore, the Workers' Party's alternative budget is strongly influenced by the desire to do something about challenge No. 1st@item: inlistbox Nearly 120 000 people are now in job queues, and we can read in the media that only in the oil industry several thousand jobs have disappeared in the last year. Developments appear to continue after the last rounds of the Land Meeting of the Left. The situation is serious, primarily for all the individuals affected, and for their closest, but also for society. The Labour Party is concerned about the political developments that cut welfare and privatisation, where political circuses and power games became the main outlets in the media. Through our political focus, we tried to stabilise the economic and political situation, while at the same time achieving a turn of policy in the social democratic direction. With this background, we chose, and we managed, to enter into a budgetary settlement with the government parties. Making a settlement doesn't mean that we're satisfied, but in our view, the reconciliation involves the best we could achieve in today's political situation. Once again, the Labour Party has shown that we are a movement of reality that can relate to the political agenda in order to create a better society than the alternatives would have done. The agreement does not mean that the Workers' Party has stopped worrying about the development or the strained force situation. The situation on the power market is unsustainable, especially for those who have received such high electricity bills that they do not have the power to pay them, or those who chose to freeze during the winter for economic reasons. Recent headlines in the media that there is a decrease in power consumption may seem appealing to many at first. But if you go into the numbers, you see that the reduction has come into places that aren't really so desirable. That business, for example: let its electric boilers go on oil instead of hydropower, is not positive. The fact that people fire up old kerosene ovens again is also not positive in relation to hydropower – would be a belief. However, if we raise it from a climate perspective, it is positive that consumers switch to energy sources other than those offered by the Government. Even oil is better than the coal power currently imported into Norwegian consumers. However, the most serious thing is that enterprises chose to shut down production. Such arrangements must be one-off cases, and we politicians must do what we can to prevent this from being the rule instead of the exception. That in winter, the Minister of Oil and Energy almost encourages the companies to throw people on the streets so that the companies sell electricity, should be an alarm clock, also for a Christian People's Party Council. Norway is a country that, by nature, is rich in resources. Foosing power has created jobs, growth and wealth development over 100 years. This has happened because the country had politicians and industry leaders who dared to make important decisions and make long-term investments. Why does this willingness seem to be absent in terms of gas and today's industrial development? Are we too good? Have we become too rich? Now we're in front of a new era: the hundred years of gas. We can do that if we show the will and courage to make important and necessary decisions. As the Workers' Party sees it, there are two important prerequisites that must be in place for us to be able to use more of our natural gas. Firstly, the gas transport infrastructure must be built up to the places that can and will use the gas. In the alternative budget of the Workers' Party, we have therefore reiterated the proposal to set up a state-owned company to invest in infrastructure projects together with industry, energy companies and industry. The Workers' Party believes that it is a State task to facilitate the development of infrastructure. There is no fundamental difference between the construction of roads and the construction of railways – or power lines – and the laying of pipelines for the transport of gas. That is why we believe that the state must be involved in building such an infrastructure. Unfortunately, the government parties did not wish this time to give this important vitamin injection to the industry in Grenland, in the North-Trundellag and in the West. The second important prerequisite for using more gas is that more research needs to be done on technologies for the environmentally friendly use of gas. In the context of the Gas Communication addressed by Stortinget in the spring, the Workers' Party proposed the creation of an innovation company for the development of technologies for the environmentally friendly use of gas, hydrogen as an energy carrier and petrochemicals. We wanted the company to be established on 1 January 2004 and that we would spend a total of 250 million. kr in the year over 10 years for that purpose. We did not get a majority in that respect, but we are pleased that in the budgetary agreement with the government parties we have an agreement that the company should be established during 2004. From a number of quarters, there are now happy signals of great progress in the development of gas power plants with CO2 management. But if we are to be sure that we are going to get to the best technology, research must be tested in pilot plants. Such installations require large investments and it is absolutely necessary that the country also contributes to the construction of such power plants. It is therefore very important that we also have an impact in the budgetary agreement in order to establish, as soon as possible, a support scheme for the construction of gas power plant pilot plants with CO2 management. The power situation in Norway is now dramatic. The energy nation of Norway is not self-sufficient in electricity. We've made ourselves dependent on importing the "shit" force. Coal power and nuclear power are the things that are now going to keep ‘Christmas’ going in Norway. We can't be aware of that. The power crisis affects too many people. People struggle to pay, they get debt collection notice, and many say that they turn down the heat and sit and freeze in fear of high electricity bills. Starain lightmates, who have no agenda other than to prevent power balance in order to obtain higher prices, must not be allowed to control energy policy in Norway. Power generation needs to be increased, and we need to use more of our natural resources. The working party believes that gas power stations should be built as soon as possible. It is the only thing that can make a significant contribution to improving the situation. In addition to this, we need to use significantly more on anenlarged and renewable energysources. The increase in the budget for this area is therefore gratifying, although we have suggested more by the Labour Party. We also proposed to finance this increase so that we do not pass the bill on to the power customers in terms of higher power bills. Unfortunately, the government parties were not willing to find room for such an invasion. However, I am pleased that the important work done by Enova is strengthened by the budgetary agreement. Society is forced to choose sustainable development in the future. It means that we do not take out more of our resources than that the generations after us can maintain a standard of living that is equal to what we have. Great challenges lie in our hands. If our choices today are wrong, then history's judgments will be hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e243	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e246	Oil and gas activity in the northern regions is concentrated by day. That is natural, as we are now facing the 18th concession round and political discussion of the impact assessment for the Barents Sea. This is a matter that occupies most political parties. From the Workers' Party there have been signals of differing views, but most often the Government has been critical of the pace. It might therefore be interesting to hear the party's views from this pulpit. Does the Workers' Party go in to reopen the Barents' Sea for exploration, and is the Workers' Party positive to include Nordland VI in the 18th concession round?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e251	If the representative at the end of his reply remembers to include the proposals, we'll get it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e254	The representative may start by taking up the proposals of the Workers' Party and cooperating with others. But the line from the government parties in relation to oil and gas in the northern regions is essentially interesting. Because I remember very well the criticism from the parties when it came to the processing of the gas message, namely that the Workers' Party was not willing to negotiate, had too clear positions and had decided in advance. Then we have made a deal with the same parties in relation to the oil notification and said that we want an impact assessment of the opening for exploration in the Barents Sea and Lofoten, and that it must be so good that we can decide whether to go in for opening, or where we might open up. Then I assume that the representative Halleraker agrees with me that the playoff is actually with the government. It would have been alarming if the Workers' Party had first made a settlement with the government parties, so to speak, that we want something different from what is in the impact assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e261	I just want to follow up the line from Øyvind Halleraker, who the representative of Klungland from the Workers' Party did not follow up. The working party has different views based on which environment you are in. Let me just quote from the Official Journal of Bergen on 29 November of this year, where an interview with Olav Akselsen says: ‘The representative of the Labour Party is afraid it may become even worse if Steensnæs does not get up and open for drilling west of the so-called Nordland VI field west of Lofoten.’ There is one view of the Workers' Party. When Sylvia Brustad was at the OLF conference, she said exactly the same thing, and when Olav Akselsen was at the Intsok conference, he said the same thing. But here in the Chamber, therefore, the Workers' Party is consistently voting against the proposals we are making regarding opening both in the Lofoot and in the Barents' Sea. When will the Workers' Party stop talking with two tongues in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e277	There may be a lot of things being said in different places, which, however, are not the policy you stand for. I assume that the representative of Korsberg is of course aware of this. However, the policy of the Labour Party is quite clear in this area. We have concluded an agreement with the Government that there should be an impact assessment on the basis of the decisions to be taken in relation to opening in the Barents Sea/Lofoten. We agree with the government parties that we should follow the development path in relation to the petroleum activity. This means that the response from the Workers' Party is yes, we have to open up in the northern regions, but we will see the consequences before we decide on it, and before we deal with it here in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e284	I'm recording that the Workers' Party is a little bit more impenetrable than they tend to be, but I'm still aware that one should open in the north. Last Thursday, the representative Klungland and I attended a conference in Kristiansund, where very many companies – FMC Kongsberg Subsea, Talisman, Aker Kværner – actually want a bet to get more out of what is in the North Sea, instead of betting northwards. Then I assume that the Labour Party's answer to a question about this will be yes, thank you both. It's actually so that with a real bet, one can still drive thousands of billions out of the North Sea. But what's happening now is that the big companies are moving north to find new big fish. Is this a smart policy from the Labour Party's side? It's not much smarter to house the resources that are actually there, and get more out of the wells, when you know that only 44 pst. are being taken out today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e291	I am not quite sure if I grasped what was smart and what was not smart on the part of the Workers' Party. In fact, compared to tail production, SV and the Workers' Party agree that we need to make the most of the resources left at the bottom. But if one reads the attitude and comments of the Socialist Left Party, and if one follows the climate policy of the Party, it becomes a bit strange that they are at all afraid of such a policy. But we're aware that SV is against the state church, but for female priests, they're against MTBs, but for surveillance of the coast, they're against Snow White, but for CO2 cleaning, they're against frigates, but they want to be built in Norway, and they're against gas, but they still want to bet on research here in the country. That's probably SV's problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e296	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e299	Let me first thank you for a thorough process of budgetary conciliation between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties. The changes made within the budgetary framework within the Committee are both acceptable and sensible. The right is concerned with pointing out that energy industries are among Norway’s most important in themselves, but also because many other industries depend on even and competitive energy supply. Our state budget is dependent on large revenues from the petroleum industry at the hands of the state. Norway is a force of energy policy. We have great opportunities to be a leader in Western Europe. At the same time, we have good prerequisites for developing these resources in a long-term and environmentally sound way, and subsequently making use of a larger proportion of these resources in Norway. It is the combination of energy extraction and the environment that underpins the efforts of the Government and the majority of the population in energy research at this intersection. It may sometimes seem that many people believe that picking up oil and gas from our sea areas is just a matter of turning off and on a crane. Nothing can be worse! The search for and production of oil and gas has provided some of the highest in Norwegian industrial development in a close cooperation between the industry itself and our highly competent research environments. Commercialising our petroleum resources from large ocean depths in clear climatic conditions has produced a technology promise in the Norwegian oil and supplier industry that gives wide ring-effects to our entire business life. In this process, the authorities have set strict environmental requirements for the establishments, leading our petroleum extraction to the top in the world in terms of environmental friendliness. The budgets of the Ministry of Oil and Energy reflect these important areas. There is no need to conceal that the extraction of oil and gas poses climate challenges. In particular, if the gas is to be used to produce electricity, large CO2 emissions arise. This is why significant research funding is being invested in this field in the budget adopted today. If our research communities, in cooperation with the industry, can also develop good and cost-effective methods to separate CO2 from the exhaust gas and find industrial applications, we have a great potential both to provide clean energy and to deliver technical industrial solutions in this field in a global market. But new renewable energy sources are also very important. Therefore, the strengthening of Enova is very joyful. The majority of the Committee has proposed adding 5 million to the Green Hydrogen project. kr. Hydrogen can become the future environmentally friendly energy carrier. It is important to invest in such projects. However, we are at a crossroads in terms of our petroleum activity. The results of exploration and test drilling have been disappointing in recent years, and large parts of the supplier industry are now on the blush. Incentives are needed to increase the rate of extraction in mature fields, to stimulate new and old actors to develop smaller fields, and new exploration areas with promising geology are needed. Should Norwegian pedestal continue to be competitive in the future, the likelihood of finding and profitability must be comparable to other oil-rich areas in the world. Petroleum activities have lived in harmony with fisheries in the North Sea for several decades. In addition, thorough impact assessments of all-year petroleum activities in the northern regions have not demonstrated any significant obstacles. It should make it acceptable to open exciting new exploration areas, hoping for new large oil and gas finds. The Minister for the Environment has distinguished this government in an excellent way as a driver both nationally and internationally in terms of protection plans, environmental improvements and commitment to the conclusion of the Kyoto Agreement and to ensuring water supply to the world's poorest country. At the same time, it is gratifying to note that he has shown that it is possible to interact with industry and forestry on a common approach to protection processes and environmental improvements. It reduces the level of conflict in such cases. The Ministry of the Environment's budget prioritises concrete environmental measures rather than large-scale studies. The villa is threatened in many watercourses, and the fight against Gyrodactylus is given high priority. In this context, the Committee points to the possibilities that the use of aluminium and acid would appear to offer in the fight against Gyrodactylus, if the further tests confirm the theory. Although the liming of acidified watercourses is controversial, I am pleased with some strengthening of the budget in the agreement with the Workers' Party. Culture memory continues. It is important that we prioritize the preservation and fire safety of some of our most valuable cultural pearls from past epochs. I am satisfied with the priority of the budgets presented and am pleased with a good balance between environment and value creation. Of course, all parties at Stortinget could want more money for different and many good measures, both in terms of energy efficiency improvement and in terms of preserving our environment. Nevertheless, it is important to find a good balance, so that we do not destroy our potential for value creation by spending more money than our economy can bear. The tight priority that exists in all the budgets dealt with by the Stortinget these days is therefore a necessary prerequisite for the continued freedom of action and governance of our economy in the future, thus ensuring both well-being and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e323	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e326	The representative Onarheim and Right want to use natural gas domestically. That's good. But in connection with the processing of the gas messages previously, Right chose a partnership with the Socialist Left Party, which is actually opposed to the use of gas domestically. We also received a point in the budgetary agreement between the Government Party and the Workers' Party to support the development of new and environmentally friendly gas-using technologies. I registered that Onarheim started his post by hailing the agreement that one has arrived at, and he said that all the proposals contained in the agreement were reasonable proposals. My question is: is this a signal that the Right and Government now want to be more offensive and cooperate with the Labour Party in the future, among others. domestic use of gas?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e333	I would not like to say that all the proposals that come from the Labour Party are favourable, but I think that the proposals that were included in the Committee were both sensible and capable of producing good results. I have repeated many times from this speaker that I believe that you should be involved in building infrastructure to bring gas into Norway. On the other hand, I'm not willing to go into difficult investments without knowing what to invest in, where and in what way. That's why I'm quite clear that before we have a satisfactory investigation on how to do this, what it will cost, and who will participate, I won't go further. But we are to get gas for domestic use.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e340	It is not just the Workers' Party that speaks with two tongues in oil matters. It certainly does the right too. Prior to the election, Right-wing Enterprise Policy spokesman Ivar Kristiansen was clocky when it came to oil drilling in the northern regions. So you can read in today's business: ‘There is no doubt as to what the Right believes. For my part, I would like to say yes to both areas today. But I realize that we need to find a solution that all parties in the government can live with." So now the right is going to sit down with the big left and start negotiating out some of the most interesting areas for the oil and gas industry. I thought the most important thing for the Right was to facilitate the business and care less about what is politically correct. What is most important for the Right: either to sit passively in the Government, or to facilitate the oil industry so that it can access the areas in which it is interesting to look?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e350	Unlike the Progress Party, we have kept a very clean line in this matter. We wanted to see the impact assessment and find out what was the danger of opening up the northern areas to oil and gas extraction. Now you're in a government where there are three parties, and where there's something different about these questions. We have to accept that. On the other hand, until we have received a proposal from the Government, the principle position of the Right is that we believe it is possible to open large areas of the north, and if you were to close the Lofoten, at least it must be possible to open relatively large areas in the Barents Sea, so that you can start searching and hopefully find new large oil and gas finds.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e357	The agreement with the Labour Party meant cutbacks both in the Ministry of the Environment's budget and in the Ministry of Oil and Energy's budget, among others. through further cuts in the Mapping. Does the representative of Onarheim think that the environmental and energy bit has improved now after the agreement with the Workers' Party? Or is it getting worse? Question no. Two goes to the north, of course. So now Willoch, Berntsen and all the youth organisations minus the Youth of Progress Party mean that you have to spend more time before doing anything in the North. In the past, I have argued that stimulating increased extraction rates, as also onarheim mentioned in its article, is a sensible strategy, which many companies are also interested in focusing more on. But then the question is, why does the government party not support the SV proposal about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e364	As the representative of Langeland knows, there are some areas that have been strengthened and some areas that have been cut. It is the harsh reality of negotiating something, where the Workers' Party wants to prioritise something, and we want to prioritise something. Those are the realities of life! But let me just say that the difference between the representative Langeland and the environmental organisations and me and the right is that we are willing to assess what comes out of an impact assessment. The representative of Langeland and the environmental organisations have decided in advance that it will be no in any case. Obviously, then it won't help if you never want to accept what comes out of an assessment, but just say no anyway. So we're going to investigate a little bit more, and then it's going to be no anyway. Then we won't move on. That is why I want us to take into account what has emerged and make decisions based on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e371	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e374	Just under a year ago, Stortinget treated the government's oil report. In dealing with this, Stortinget was invited to make a political choice. Two scenarios could be selected for development on a Norwegian base: the weathering path or the long-term development path. At my discretion, the choice was to be simple, and it was a large majority who, of course, wanted to have the long-term development path. During the processing of the message, Stortinget received clear signals about what was going on in order to achieve such a development. A coherent oil industry had the following desires: New prospecting areas were the most important.Give us a new tax system that provides incentives, especially for niche and tail production. Make sure that the State, as the second-largest player on Norwegian pedestal, also contributes funds for research and development, especially for reservoir use. But what did the Storting do to meet these desires? No things of the world! Representatives from the government parties and the Labour Party spoke warmly from this pulpit about the long-term development path, without taking the necessary steps to achieve this result. The Progress Party promoted the necessary proposals, but it remained on its own this time as well. Access to prospective areas was the most important desire from the oil industry, and especially the northern areas of the Lofoten/Barents Sea were of course the most interesting. But there was no oil business here, at least not until a new impact assessment had been carried out. In spite of the fact that 174 different impact studies have already been carried out and that more than DKK 0.5 billion have been spent in the area, we need to re-examine the impact. This is in no way due to the need for a better decision-making basis. This is due to one and only decision-making refusal and lack of political power, both from the Government and the Workers' Party. It has also been possible to bring this in several newspapers in the country in the last few days. I can, however, be pleased with the fact that the Progress Party is also promoting the necessary proposals today, so that the Stortinget today has the opportunity to show its power of action and to provide our main industries with the signals they need to find Norwegian pedestal worth investing in the future. Looking at the forecasts for the oil industry in Norway, it looks pretty good with regard to investments for 2004 and 2005. Also, the country's net cash flow will stay high in the next few years, but then it looks far from bright for this industry. The oil industry is very capital-intensive, and it takes many years before the money throws something of itself. It is therefore very important to pursue a long-term and predictable policy in this area. As I said earlier, it was a desire of all parties to make more use of the oil resources. Despite this, the Government proposes in its draft budget for next year to use 0.8 per million of the country's net cash flow for research in this area. I think it's amazing that the Norwegian State, which is just making the most of a better use of resources, cannot put up with more money for this important research. For several years, the Progress Party and I have proposed to take this research out of the ordinary budgetary procedure and to set up a petroleum research fund of DKK 10 billion, where the return is to be used for research. The proposal has broad support in the oil environment, but the Stortinget has not yet given its support. During the last year's budgetary procedure, the majority of the Stortinges agreed to request the Government to investigate various forms of State co-financing of petroleum research, including a petroleum-oriented research fund. Now, a year later, nothing has happened, and this is probably an example of the Government's total lack of action. Since we are now dealing with this with a lack of action, it is good to look at the last winter crisis in the power market. Over the past eight to ten years, we have seen a trend where electricity consumption has increased five to six times more than the increase in output. The NVE, Statnett and, of course, the Advance Party have for a number of years warned against what was going to happen if you did not achieve a better balance between supply and demand. Several governments and large-scale figures have for the same time ignored all these warnings. If you are to have a well-functioning market, you must have the best possible balance between supply and demand. The main problem in the Norwegian electricity market is that it actively intervenes on the supply side of this market and prevents the necessary increase in production. Most of the hydroelectric power deployments have been either significantly reduced or rejected in their entirety throughout this period. Micro, mini and small power plants are stopped by extensive red tape and difficult concession rules. The government is supported by the majority in this room to stop the use of our huge gas resources both as a source of energy directly, as raw materials in industry and last but not least, for power generation. I think it's amazing that Norway, as one of the world's greatest energy storms, has managed to mess it up this way. We have an energy production of nearly 3,000 TWh. We're just using 7-8 pst. Of this ourselves, and the rest we export out of the country. Then we will have to import large amounts of power from coal and nuclear power plants in other countries, thanks to a total failure of energy policy. Norwegian energy policy, or rather a lack of energy policy, has been at the forefront of so-called environmental protection for too many years. The political majority, although obviously obliged to see that it is wrong to do so, do not dare to settle matters with environmental protection organisations. Instead, these organisations have been and are still premiscuous suppliers of this clearly flawed energy and environmental policy. The Norwegian people got to feel this policy on the body last winter. Sky-high electricity prices forced many to go the heavy road to the social office, and there was imminent danger of disconnection and rationalization. So far this winter has gone a lot better. It is not due to measures from either government or accumulation. It's because of a mild and bleak harvest, and we've just been lucky. The government and the majority in this hall have, despite the situation last winter, unfortunately not done anything. The government is supposed to come to Stortinget with a separate matter of security of supply in winter, a year after the crisis was a fact. This is probably an example of this government’s action. Then to the budget. The government parties have concluded a budgetary settlement with the Workers' Party for some time, and it turned out that in this agreement they were also linked within the various budgetary frameworks. The Progress Party will not present alternative distributions within the two frameworks we are dealing with here today, but will refer to our primary proposal, which is made visible in the setting. With this, I will take up the proposals of the Advance Party in the vote, as well as the proposals we have with other parties, which have not already been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e424	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e429	I'm not going to say that the Progress Party is talking to two tongues. I guess it's better to talk about split tongues. The progressing party indicates in the setting that ‘the major focus on CO2 management technology is a Norwegian phenomenon’. At the same time, they show that this technology is being researched in many countries. It must be very nice and interesting who will help Norway with the strange problem of CO2 management. The progressing party further states in the setting that ‘a potential solution’ for CO2 management ‘is that the State owns and operates CO2 management facilities without imposing the cost on the owner of the gas power plant’. Can the Progress Party explain a little more about these thoughts? Does the Progress Party consider CO2 management to be a ‘Norwegian phenomenon’ and why is the Progress Party so committed to using taxpayers’ money in this regard, in the opinion of the Progress Party, the strange phenomenon?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e439	The party regrets the development that has taken place, that a one-sided rate of CO2 management and does not use BAT, i.e. Best Available Technology, and is launching gas power plants today, based on the technology now known. What we in the Progress Party do, and have focused on, is to propose that the State take the possible additional costs that it would be, thanks to unilateral Norwegian measures adopted in this Chamber. If the Norwegian State adopts unilateral Norwegian measures, the State, and also we in this room, must take the costs and not allow the one who wants to start gas power plants to take the costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e446	The representative, Vaksdal, shows a touching concern for Norwegian petroleum activities and calls for several government crowns. I want to challenge the Progress Party in terms of preserving jobs in mainland Norway. Norway’s maximum point emissions of mercury come from the scrap iron holding Fundia i Mo i Rana, and a sewage treatment plant is estimated to cost between 50 million and 100 million. kr – the costs that the company itself says it cannot bear alone and that therefore a fissure layer is necessary. At the same time, we know that the melting process in Fundia causes fibrillation in the net, down to Trendelag. The new cleaning technology developed by Fundia would solve both of these problems. But one of the problems is that the problem falls between several state councils. Both state councils are now in the Chamber today, and with the help of an overall opposition, we could have helped the state councils to come together on this question of Fundia, but here I do not have the support of the Progress Party. I would therefore challenge the representative, Mr Vaksdal, to tell me how the Progress Party intends to handle Norway's largest mercury point emissions. And how has the Progress Party intended to solve the problem of web fibrillation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e458	It is true, as the representative Vaggen Malvik points out, that we are engaged in jobs in the petroleum industry and so far in the rest of the industry as well. Now I do not know all the details about the mercury emission that the representative here refers to, but I have understood that this is also due to what I had in my previous reply, my own Norwegian emission requirements that turn out and can put jobs at risk. Of course, we in the Progress Party should also be involved and look at that and make the best of the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e463	It is interesting to note that in the post from the representative, Vaksdal, it was claimed that an extremely dry year was the government's fault, but when we have normal years of rainfall, it's happy. Otherwise, the Progress Party strongly asserted that they will not subsidize any particular energy form, cf. the notes on page 24 of the setting. At the same time, the Progress Party has said a number of times that the Government has to settle with the company to find out what is going on for gas power plants to be built. I can't help but understand that this conversation must be about government subsidies, bonuses, support, or whatever name the Progress Party will give it. For me, this is at least two conflicting opinions from the same party. The question is then: should the state go in favour, subsidies, or is it right that the Progress Party will not use state resources to support gas power plants? For the Christian People's Party it is clear: we will provide support for gas power plants with CO2 handling.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e472	The representative Lions claimed we accused the government of being responsible for an extremely dry year. That's not right, and there was no extreme drought last year, but it was two dry months. That's a certain difference. Then he came up with questions about subsidies, support for gas power plants. Today it is such that one can produce power based on gas at a price of 19 to 26 øre, if one does not have exceptional Norwegian environmental requirements. So it's not the cost of these requirements that puts these projects at risk. I had of course expected that the government and government parties now after all. So we don't want to give any subsidies on the construction of gas power plants. However, as I have said several times before, if the Norwegian Government and the Norwegian Government impose extra stringent requirements that result in additional costs, the government and accumulation must take these costs, so that we have a level playing field.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e479	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e482	I will deal with all the SV proposals and the suggestions that SV is on. They would, if they were adopted, have given Norway the environmental policy that is needed in the future. A group of environmental stirrers, all youth parties and church, Kåre Willoch, Thorbjørn Berntsen and SV ask for more time and proper decision-making before opening up to more oil and gas operations in the north. The Directorate for Nature Management states that the current basis for decision is inadequate. SFT's new assessment tells the government council not to see it, it should be kept secret. In case it's a result, it's a scandal. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State already at the meeting here today, before it has responded to the letter from SV, clearly says that this should be open, of course. SV can give the Government a number of plurals for a hold to wait, a hold that does not drive game in the north, with this important, ecologically vulnerable area and the central dining area of Norway and Europe. So the government can get multiples for that. And there are alternatives. Last Thursday, among others. I attended a conference in Kristiansund, and a number of companies were very optimistic about the operations in the North Sea and on the Norwegian continental shelf, because they see a potential to drive out more of the existing fields, from satellites and from tail production. In other words, a series of Norwegian companies, including Kongsberg, Aker Kværner, Talisman, the research institution SINTEF and others. Indicates that there is a potential that one does not currently accept, for one there is no more than 44 pst. average. A sip of away or light oil and gas for thousands of billions is lying and will never be taken out if you don't have a conscious policy on this. SV has tried several times to get an active hold of the Government at this point, but we do not experience that it does. So here it's a potential. SV today has a proposal to use CO2 as pressure support, but it is not supported by the government for some reason. Neither did Onarheim answer me in reply to the question of why this is not supported by the use of CO2 as an active pressure support. Then you would solve more problems at once, just as the Gunnar Berge Oil Directorate has also been given a new profile, looking at what one can do to increase the extraction rate. It provides environmental benefits in relation to climate accounting. It reduces the need to enter new areas, as big companies want. It provides for the development of new world-leading technologies related to the work on petroleum, and not least gives it work and optimism. It proved the conference in Kristiansund. SV thought it was absolutely amazing that the Left and Christian People's Party and the Government do not support the SV proposal at this point. Parts of the East have been darkened, and some are still, as it has been in New York, London, Northern Italy and in Øresund. This has been a failure, for example: maintenance work related to the network. Then it's surprising that all the parties, except SV, actually amount to a lot more money from Statnet than they've been into before. Now take one out of 90 pst. of that company as well. It's irresponsible in terms of security of supply, and it should make more people think about it. However, SV shall know to place the responsibility when and where there is an accident related to the central network. SV may generate multiples of 13 gas power plants. We have in our proposals a number of measures that will help to resolve the power crisis we had in winter, and that may come back. We think that the ambitions of the government in this area are too small and have to increase. Our proposal for the Government is that one should have 20 TWh inside the market as a target by 2010. The LO, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party, also known as the Climate Bandittens, aim to build gas power plants, to build gas power plants, to build gas power plants. They haven't built a single gas power plant, but they've been yelling about it for ten years, saying that now we have to build gas power plants. Then they have seats in government, and they haven't built gas power plants, or they've made a deal, as both the Labour Party and the Advance Party have done, and not built gas power plants. They didn't ask for it either. I thought that there was something a little suspicious about a party that called for solutions that they themselves never agreed to. The LO and the Workers' Party must now decide whether SV is the main enemy of energy policy, or whether they themselves must soon be involved in a strategy that actually works and that SV has endured for a long time. Some examples of this: the process industry, Enova, says that one can save 5.3 TWh by improving energy efficiency in industry. No, nothing's happening. The Labour Party will not participate in anything offensive. The construction industry says that there are 14 TWh to save in relation to a construction property. And as people have seen, SV has drawn up a proposal to phase out PCB luminaires, which are toxic and can drain in the head of people in the schools. One can save 1 TWh by replacing it, at the same time as a set of electrical mounts at work. All of these suggestions SV should have got multiples for. In winter we received several figures for our proposals on investment support for heat pumps, pellet stoves and management systems. Time should now be left to choose solutions that do not compromise the environment and do not create problems in relation to the climate problem. Within the framework of new renewable energy, opportunities are also present. In bioenergy are e.g. 10 TWh by 2010 within range if one wants to bet. Sponheim said in October 2003 that if a bet was made on this, it would create 6 000 – 8 000 jobs in districts where there is the most strain. This would not include the majority of the games on Stortinget. Then a man would like to call out to a gas power plant. However, if one implemented all the measures proposed by SV, there are solutions that both give Norway power to the industry and have green power to export, which would really have been profitable both for the state and for too many consumers who would experience greater price stability. SV tried to get a split layer under Staten's pollution control, which Vaggen Malvik has been in, in relation to Fundia. In spite of high cigars, for example: by the Labour Party and others in the election campaign, have the Right and other countries that one cannot do anything anyway. So then Fundia continues with the same emissions and with the same problems associated with pollution. This is a pity for SV. SV has also drawn up a proposal that the Workers' Party has made before, namely on a pilot project for rural development schemes to reduce the problems associated with re-firement, so that a number of well-burning areas remain. No, SV only gets the center party on it. The other parties also fail in this matter, including those who have made this proposal before. SV also has a proposal that one is a few about more places in the country. A co-ordinated municipality of Stavanger has joined the environmental envelopes on noise emission and pollution-exposed areas associated with them. Despite the fact that all the parties locally have gone in for it, no party here at Stortinget has turned on it at all. It's a voter, it seems, SV. The efforts to strengthen the scope for increased opportunities for outdoor, cultural and biological diversity have been difficult to achieve with this government. Kalking is one of many examples of this. Now cut a huge salt in the liming, and one can thus create greater danger with regard to the conservation of the wild axis. Outdoor activities, national parks centres and voluntary organisations are not given the necessary lift. They only get it if they put on SV, because SV has the environmental policy that Norway needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e514	The President would point out that no one should be characterised as a bandit, neither a climate bandit nor an environmental bandit, from the Stockholm pulpit. The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e521	I want to start with SV now trying to emphasize itself in relation to the recycling of energy in industry. A year ago there was a proposal that was discussed here in the Chamber, about exactly the same thing, and SV was actually the party that made sure that there was no majority for it. But SV does not take responsibility for any things, and it may be good to see that they live in that reality yet. I think they need to grow up, if not enough the party will be a tail production after the 2005 elections. So SV is opposed to using the gas in this country. Nevertheless, they are to grant money to the National Centre of Competence for the End Use of Natural Gas in Haugaland. SV is against building out on Sauda, but they're for the Nutrition Fund. Could it have any connection with the fact that the fractional leader comes from Rogaland, and that even in SV you are closest to yourself?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e528	I feel in a way that SV has grown up when the party breathes the working party into the neck, despite the fact that according to the Labour Party we have an environmental policy that clearly does not seem to be growing up. There's something of the problem when one discusses this with the LO, the Progress Party and the Labour Party. So one has no visions other than some heavy, smoking gas power plants. It's the only vision that can produce! And when SV makes suggestions, it's just to criticize them and not try to enter into a constructive dialogue. Of course, SV will address recovery projects in industry that are not formulated to exempt them from all taxes, but are targeted at industry and not necessarily reduce taxes on the waste industry. One must use the header when formulating such suggestions. What is important for SV is that we choose the solutions that the climate and the environment need.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e540	The Socialist Left Party, in its main priorities under the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, says that they believe 2004 should be the beginning of a ‘new direction for Norwegian energy policy’, and mentions that they want a reduction in the cost of oil and gas field exploration as one of the measures. This is reflected in the range of views of the party on these issues, where they have voted against most of the major development projects in the petroleum sector over the last 10 to 15 years. SV is perhaps the strongest defender of the Norwegian welfare state, with high and rising public expenditure. At the same time, SV has an anti-business policy, with high taxes and a lot of regulation. In the Right, we have a recognition that values must be created before they can be shared, and that the best guarantor to develop a well-being lies in the development of value creation. Petroleum industry is our main contributor to maintaining the level of welfare. How does SV get its math to go up in the real world? Is not their negative attitude towards the development of the petroleum industry a serious threat to the welfare state?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e549	Let me first thank the replicator by saying that I'm happy that SV is described as the party that strongly defends the welfare state, that we're flinching at it. I appreciate that, and I think that's quite right. It's important, and it's going to be important for SV in the future. Then I have to correct the representative from the right on a couple of points. SV has e.g. entered the areas of Grane and Kristin in the North Sea. But we've made demands. We have requested that they have CO2-free gas power plants in order to use the CO2 as pressure support. No one else has ours on it. What characterises SV's policy is that we see certain conditions attached, for example. to the environment. We therefore welcome the CO2 tax that one has had in the North Sea, because it has simply led to the presence of Norwegian environmental technology in the forefront of the world. Statoil just got a price for this, and that was because of the CO2 charge, said the late Statoil Director. So SV has a good policy here!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e556	I will take a line on SV in the case of SV's support players, namely voluntary environmental protection organisations. We in the Progress Party want these organisations to be granted financial support on equal criteria and not to understand, as some claim, the trickery factor and media noise can provide the basis, as it is today. Nature and Youth are an example on the one hand, while Norway’s Wellbeing Association, which has lost all its support, is another example. In the past, SV has been critical, and last year they have made proposals to ask for an assessment of the review of financial support. Why has SV changed its policy in this area? Is it SV's support player Nature and Youth, who otherwise has suction in the state fund in terms of financial support, who has asked SV to change policy in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e565	It was a good question to get, because then I get to say something about how much support for voluntary organisations is cut off by the government. It's really one of the negative points that you haven't discussed here in relation to the government's policy, namely that a cutback on support for voluntary organisations, making it harder for them to pursue an active environmental policy. And that is probably the purpose of this government. So it's a good thing that Nature and Youth have a suction pipe into SV's policy, but not necessarily a very large suction pipe into the state box. But SV is willing to go in and discuss guidelines for the allocation of money and to evaluate this with voluntary organisations. We've been through this before, and we should like to get back on with it. But then it must not be on the Advance Party's premise that one should be supported by some of the organizations because they have done or have done so. But we can have an open debate on this. Finally, I must say to the Labour Party's reply that if it benefits the country, we obviously support local environmental issues and local work matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e574	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e577	I'm going to draw up some points that are central to the Central Party in budgetary terms. Let me start with micro and mini power plants. It's time – I had almost said – now again. After the war, we had 4,200 such power plants in operation. Now it's about 800. On the part of the Council of State, it has been said that the legislation on the establishment of small power plants should be simplified. The centre party has now put forward a proposal to support the development of micro and mini-power plants. We're coming back to this, because it's a very good idea. We believe it is necessary to establish a grant scheme for the development of the competence of micro and mini-power plants. There should be money on the NVE budget where regional councils and the relevant professional communities in the counties can apply for funds to carry out monitoring and guidance work for micro and mini-power plants. In addition to simpler legislation, there will be time-saving and considerable road safety for the individual builder. The centre party also wants a stronger investment in alternative energy than the government adds. To achieve the national targets for greenhouse gas emission reduction, a faster transition to more environmentally friendly energy use is necessary. It is also necessary to make energy use more flexible, so that society becomes less vulnerable to new power crises. The center party wanted to spend more money on Enova. We believe that the level of state funding for the Energy Fund should be maintained, so that the increase from the network tariff would have become an additional supplement. That's why we have 185 million. kr more to use. This money should be used for a national bioenergy investment. As mentioned above, it is a political objective to move towards more environmentally friendly energy. Bioenergy should play an important role in this context. It is environmentally friendly, it is renewable, and it strengthens the basis for local value creation and provides positive ring-effects for traditional forest production. The annual use of bioenergy by Norway is currently 6 pst. of total energy consumption. The potential is significantly higher, but it requires framework conditions that provide profitability both for those extracting raw materials, for those producing the heat and for those using the finished heat. Forestry is currently harvested under half the growth every year, so that the raw material base is present. But we lack infrastructure in district heating, and we probably also lack sufficient political ambitions to develop a value chain based on Norwegian renewable forest raw material. Besides, there's a need for more money. Grants should be granted to public buildings and non-residential buildings in order to benefit from bioenergy. It is also necessary to have predictable charging systems if it is considered that one would strengthen the competitive position of bioenergy. The proposal for an exemption from the electricity charge was traditionally pleasing to the business community, I would like to stress that. However, this is not a good example of the foreseeable framework conditions for the bio industry, and it has led to an approximate cessation of investment in bioenergy projects. From next year, households will pay more money to Enova. It may be okay, but then it must also be clear that they get something left. The centre party therefore wants a subsidy scheme for households. Conversion to or installation of waterborne heat and transition to pelletising stoves should be eligible for grants. In addition, we believe that there should be a mortgage arrangement on old wood stoves. The centre party wishes to focus on an environmental policy based on the principle of sustainable development. It is important that environmental policies are active and comprehensible, and that local management should be provided as much as possible. The involvement of the many members of non-governmental organisations is an important part of environmental work and they must be encouraged to do more. Unfortunately, this budget gives signals that more non-governmental organisations are being cut off in support and also in pots from which they could apply for support. That's too bad. By investing in voluntary organisations, you usually get a lot of money back. Practical and awareness-raising work is very well done in these organisations. We in the Center Party are very pleased with the creation of the Cultural Memory Fund – that is exactly what the Council of State should have – but we want the Cultural Memory Fund to be an important player in cultural memory protection. It can't be the size of the fund we're now seeing. Return is very small in relation to the challenges of cultural memory protection. A faster build-up of the fund's capital will give the new organisation more money for protection work, so that the Cultural Memory Fund can also become an important player in cultural memory protection, as foreseen. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Centre Party is on its own, or is in agreement with others. In addition, we will support an SV proposal that has been put on the table today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e600	The representative, Inger S. None, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e605	The center party says they're for the development of more environmentally friendly energy. My first question is: what is more environmentally friendly than hydropower expansion? As you know, the Center Party went against the development of Otta. They didn't want any expansion there. Now it might seem like they're changing vision there as well. The NVE has provided a forecast that in 2010, with a dry year, we can get 43 TWh too little energy production here in the country. Is this TWh that the Centre Party is going to cover by wind power and bioenergy and micro and mini-power plants, or do they see that we need to take a little more action to cover the current imbalance in Norway, which leads to high electricity prices, and business struggling and losing competitiveness?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e612	It's quite right, as the representative of Klungland says, that the Centre Party is very concerned about the environment. In the case of further power development, there is a great deal to be recovered in the case of micro and mini-power plants and small-scale power plants. As I mentioned before, there were 4,200 after the war, and now there's only 800 left, so here we have a lot of resources to figure out that we've actually laid a little waste. I believe that we have great opportunities within this area. In addition, it is important that other renewable raw materials also have predictable framework conditions so that people can dry up. It has been difficult for many to invest in bioenergy, because you don't know anything about the future – that's one of the reasons. Besides, it's probably also right for many to bet on the wind. But the sum total, I think, is that by saving, by means of an additional measure and the things we propose, this is all right.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e619	At the bottom of page 26 of the vote, the Central Party has a special comment criticising the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party in the revised national budget with regard to a cut in the allocations for gas infrastructure. It says it's ‘unfortunately to the actors involved in increasing the use of natural gas, such severe cuts shall be made during a financial year.’;» Of course, I fully agree with that criticism, and I would like to reinforce it. However, in the context of the revised national budget, the following is stated in the statement: ‘The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Progress Party, aligns with the Government’s proposals.’ I would therefore like to ask the representative, Mr Enger, whether she disagrees with her own party and with her representative in the Finance Committee in this matter? And wouldn't it be better to raise this criticism within your own party if that were the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e636	I did not find it up to page 26 right now, but I agree that it is regrettable that it is cut on some infrastructure. We need money both for infrastructure and research. As for what the Central Party believes, it's not always time to discuss all the details, so it may have been the way this time too, I'd like to admit – it's going fast in budgetary terms. But I think we'll be able to defend it. I'm sorry if Mr. Waksdal thinks it's embarrassing that the Central Party is not taking all its debates in. It may be okay that there is so much openness about things that one can also dry to take things out!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e646	The centre party has, in some areas, in my opinion, approaches SV in environmental policy, and that is positive. The centre party and SV agree on some proposals here today, among other things. mortgage arrangement on wood floor and restoration of Steinvikholm, which the representative Enger had in mind. A couple of things I want to challenge the Center Party on. The one thing applies to the PCB that hangs in the luminaires around, among others. to be phased out before 1 January 2005. I cannot understand why the Center Party should not agree to bring the Government into a system that can just get rid of this poison and treat it safely. The second question concerns what we know is difficult in the Center Party, that is, universal access rights and protection of important open-air areas, such as the Workers' Party and SV are all about in the setting. Why is it not important for the Center Party to secure all people's access to our free nature?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e655	Allemannsrechten: The Center Party believes that the Allemannsrechten is strong in the Norwegian people. By the way, it is something special for Norway, but it is not the same in other countries. It's very important that it stands strong, and we definitely believe that it should be maintained. So when Langeland takes the angle he's doing right now, I don't really know myself. What is clear, and that is what Langeland wants to achieve, is that private property is also strong in our party. But e.g. in the case of beach areas and the purchase of state buildings and state areas, we have always fully supported it. We also believe that it may be particularly important with some specific guidelines in areas that are heavily populated. But we should be aware that in many places you will be happy if there is any more traffic than it is now!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e662	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e665	The co-operation administration is leading a far better, more offensive and more forward-looking environmental and energy policy than any previous government and any other possible government configuration today. Cooperation governance builds its environmental policy on the objective of sustainable development. The Verkemodla will be set up in accordance with the good left-wing principle that impureurs will pay. This means that an economic and market-based tool such as mandatory agreements, negotiable allowances, certificates and environmental taxes is more closely linked. Energy is one of Norway's most important industries. Both water resources, oil and gas resources and new renewable energy sources make us a leading energy supplier in Europe. Norwegian professionals also have a high level of competence. The left is, as the Christian People's Party and the Right, saying that we have to combine the role of a large energy producer with being countries of progress in environmental policy. The government is thus adding to increased efforts in research and technology development in this area. In addition to improving knowledge and technology related to increasing extraction rates in oil and gas fields, it is important to research on the use of natural gas for energy purposes, hydrogen and renewable energy sources. A forward-looking energy policy is a policy that also paves the way for the hydrogen society and the breakthrough of zero-emission technology. In this debate, I believe that it is also appropriate to mention that in the budgetary position for 2004, a comprehensive financial committee calls for an assessment of the exemption from the levy on hydrogen cars. In the case of electric cars, Norway has introduced free public parking schemes, exemptions from bomb duty and exemptions from one-off and annual charges. In addition, lower tax bases have been introduced using electric car as a company car, and for the purchase of new electric cars a zero rate was introduced from 1 July last year when VAT is applied. A similar fee exemption for hydrogen cars will also allow Norway to become a transitional country in zero emission technology based on hydrogen. The left is very satisfied with the fact that a mass accumulation is behind this kind of forward-looking environmental effort. In the 2004 budget, forest protection benefits are significantly increased. Work is intensified, which is necessary if we are to achieve an internationally decent level of protection. Sweden and Finland have implemented measures to ensure protection of four to five times the size of our area, and we cannot reach this level without thinking about new ones. In particular, I would like to highlight the increased focus on voluntary protection and the potential to assess the protection of forests in state-owned areas as two measures that can increase the area significantly. However, it is important not to allow one-sided land focus to go beyond the need to protect biodiversity and the professional content of protective plans. The government's efforts in the field of environmental policy are not only reflected in the budget we are to adopt today. Taking global responsibility for a historically high aid budget is also addressing the environmental challenges facing many poor countries. In fact, being involved in addressing environmental challenges in other parts of the world is also an important contribution to addressing our own environmental challenges. The air is for everyone, we get hope, and pollution knows no borders. Environmental policy is about quality of life and health today and in the future. Land protection, public transport, harmful emissions, a sustainable energy policy based on renewable sources and internationally committed cooperation are key ingredients of the Left's environmental policy. The 2004 State Budget, presented by the Co-operation Board, shows that the priorities of the Left are respected. I would say that by the budgetary agreement we have had with the Labour Party, this effort is not weak, but perhaps a little stronger. In the left we were very satisfied with the government budget that the government presented, and there has not been any weakening in this area by the budget agreement that we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e684	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e687	The left has set itself the goal of managing the oil and gas policy in Norway. Until now, we have had a coexistence between the oil industry and the fishing industry. The question is, what is it that makes the Left with three government councils and two government representatives sit in a position that makes them overwhelm what they showed through their national government meeting? Does that mean that the Left will stand on its own both in relation to the Lofoten and the Barents Sea, or does it simply mean that the Left's representative Vihovde is tired or tired of sitting on the Stortinget, and wants to go home?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e692	The left has, throughout its history, been willing to take responsibility, to get results and to implement its policies. No matter how many representatives we are in this room, that's actually what we're doing. We are in and take responsibility; we are in and show willingness to cooperate and compromise in order to develop the good solutions and in order to implement the Left's policy. I actually think that the Left's voters are quite content with that. Now this thing is in the government, they're working on it. What will come out of it, we'll have to wait and see for the next week when the concession award is due, and also when the oil message comes to spring. Then a few will see what the Left has achieved through its policies, and what the Christian People's Party and the Right have achieved through their policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e697	The representative Vihovde said that the budget was not weakened by the conciliation. But the reality is that from a thin environmental project and energy project that came from the Government, the agreement with the Labour Party has led to cuts in many fields. The question is whether cooperation with the Labour Party has improved the environmental and energy bit from the stand to the Left? Is that what they say? The second question is linked to the Left's position in the Government, which we have read in the newspaper. It's clear that if Left thinks what's standing there, there are many outside the house and in the house that have the same policy as Left. SV will support a line that is more restrictive than the Left seems to go for. The question is whether there is a limit beyond Lofoten when drilling in the north. Shouldn't you, like SV, bet on increased extraction rates?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e704	As I finished my post, the Left was very satisfied with the government budget. It is, in fact, a historical environmental effort in the budget, both in public transport, research, alternative energy sources, land protection and aid. There has not been any significant weight in this budget agreement that we have got in place, when you look at the totality. I would like to repeat what I said to the representative Klungland. Left takes responsibility, Left wants results, Left compromises. The Left and the Left may actually be some about environmental policy, but the difference is that while the Left Party is writing resolutions and trying to market them, the Left delivers results by taking responsibility in government and by finding good compromise for the environment. In the long term, I believe that the environment is at the forefront of Left's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e711	It says a little about the climate in the government apparatus when it's that you have to wait until spring to see who is the winner of the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right in relation to both petroleum activities and environmental policies. But it's not the Labour Party's problem, it's a challenge for the Government. However, everything suggests that this question has already been clarified in part, as the Left has gone out as bastant as they have. That's really what I asked for and wanted an answer to. Thus, in relation to oil and gas production, there is an industrial policy in Norway that has both led to large and necessary revenues and has proved to be good in relation to environmental challenges. Is it, then, that the Left will not at all consider the opening up of the northern regions in relation to industrial technology and its further development? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e716	The President will note that the speaking time for the lines is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e720	When the representative of Klungland talks about one having to wait until spring to see what the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right really mean, it becomes clear that the representative of Klungland comes from a party that has never been used to working together, but that can push forward and say its words here and now, while others sit down and discuss and have a good dialogue. I really hope that the Socialist Left Party listens to that a little arrogant in what came out. We are dedicated to providing an oil message, showing a holistic policy, and not delivering it piece by piece and division. I replied to the representative Klungland so that it's actually not math that decides whether you're willing to take responsibility, it's whether you're willing to compromise, and whether you're willing to cooperate. The result shall be seen by the representative of Klungland when the Government submits its notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e727	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e730	Today we are discussing the budget of the Ministry of the Environment. I have to ask, because we have the Minister for the Environment in the Chamber, what the Minister for the Environment is going to do with the introduced species that we have on the Norwegian coast. We have a species that was set up by the Russians in 1964, called royal crab. We have countless species that come with ballast water from other areas of the world and are released into Norwegian waters. What's he going to do with that? Is it enough just to travel into the world and tell the other countries that we should not have introduced species in the other countries, while we accept that the introduced species come to Norway in large measure? I have to ask you a question about that. Today, we feel that the protest industry is getting a lot of money that we're deciding here in the storeroom. There are organisations that are countering the policies that we adopt in the Storting and that we are in favour of. The same organizations get money from Stortinget to work against us. Can we be familiar with that? Well, that's what we decide. The coastal party was the first batch to deal with this with oil transport and oil extraction. Already in 1998 we began to press for this. Now it seems that there are more people in the main hall who have understood the point. At least it's got the protest industry, because they've been on our line and they're saying this is their honor. It's not at all. We've taken it up several times. The fact that we have had a towing capacity on tankers sailing down the coast is our profit. For the other parties and the government have understood that there is a serious problem when we have up to 19 tankers at the same time off the coast. It's very hard not to take it seriously. There's an oil extraction in the Barents Sea today. It's Russia that's extracting oil there. We in Norway will decide whether to extract oil outside the Lofoten and in the Barents Sea. After what's told me, it's going to happen around December 15. We in the Coastal Party are on the line that the Norwegian Fisheries Team has taken, that there should not be drilling outside the Lofoten, but that we allow drilling in the Barents Sea, because there is already an extraction going on. The question is whether we should have any impact on that drilling at all in the presence. The Chief of Defense has said that showing the flag is not the most important thing, it's the ability to show the flag. Do you know what that means? If you have the ability to show the flag, it's going to be balanced by showing the flag. So the ability to be present should be balanced with that of being present. It can't go into it. We have to be there. We have to show the flag. Because we're over an area that's seven times larger than our land. And on the ground – there we have to be. But we're not supposed to be present at sea. So we must not fall for the temptation to smooth the ability to be present. We started in 1998, as I said, massaging to get to the Norne ship, which is extracting oil outside the Lake Sandness. I've been there. But it took many years, it took five years before I got there. I guess that's the time it takes to build and finance a new oil protection vessel like what I was on board. We are one of the very few countries in the world that have a special built vessel. And there's more going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e748	The basis for the treatment of the energy and environmental budget is the conclusion of a budgetary settlement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party this year. Although, as the largest opposition party, we have as our clear goal the replacement of today's right-wing rule after the election, it doesn't mean that we shouldn't try to do everything we can to dampen the right-wing drain of society that the government is running with. That is why we are pleased that we have had a budgetary settlement this year, because it means a stronger effort against unemployment and a stronger welfare policy. But that doesn't mean we're 100 pst. Satisfied with the budget we are about to adopt today. On the contrary, even in the budget of the Ministry of the Environment and in energy policy, we are far removed from each other. I'll give you two examples. The first concerns the electricity charge. The conversion of the electricity charge imposed by the Government, where we first have to remove the entire electricity charge for business and then introduce a new model on 1 June, will result in a severe setback for the entire district heating industry. That is why the Labour Party proposed in its alternative budget that we should continue today's electricity tax until 1 July. When it didn't work out, we believe that at least it would be important to get more predictability than the government adds up to. The government has so far proposed that the new model be presented in the revised budget, dealt with at the end of June in Stortinget and then introduced a few weeks later. It's a scheme that will mean little predictability. That is why, in today's vote, we have made a proposal asking the Government to promote a separate case on the design of the new electricity tax model in business as quickly as possible, and by 1 April 2004 at the latest. At that time, the Storting could have dealt with this as a matter of its own, and it would have been much better than letting business live in uncertainty until the revised budget was adopted. The other thing is The Cartwork. Already in the autumn of 2001 the government started on what cannot be seen as anything other than a reduction in the Map. At that time there was a majority, including the Progress Party, who urged that something be corrected in the revised budget. However, in the autumn of 2002, the Government proposed to reverse this increase. So, in the spring of 2003, Stortinget dealt with the map message. Now the Progress Party had turned around and gave the government full support for further cuts and terminations and closures of the County Map Office. The Workers' Party believes that maps are a basic infrastructure for which the State has to take responsibility. We are very concerned about what is now happening in the Cartel. We don't know yet how many people want to cancel, but it's probably over 100 people. Everyone who gets laid off is entitled to a salary for six months, and then will have about 85 pst. be entitled to a waiting wage. The mapping will therefore be charged in 2004 to tens of millions of kroner linked only to insurmountable, cancelled and leased-in contracts. The Labour Party had therefore hoped to have an impact that the Government in the revised budget should come back with an assessment of the need for the means of conversion. What we have achieved is that the government parties have come to meet us a little bit in the majority comment we have in the vote, and we will follow closely what is going on in the Map. In the Ministry of the Environment's budget, we have had some minor changes within the agreed framework. These are not large amounts, but there are important changes. I want to limit myself to mentioning three of them for the sake of time. The first is the Green Hydrogen on the Notodden. We in the Workers' Party are very pleased that we have finally received a government grant for this exciting and forward-looking project. The second is the increase of 2.5 million. kr to Kap. Item 74 Grants for outdoor activities. When we had a hearing in the committee, it was a clear signal from the environmental movement that the cut government had proposed was very worrying, and that it was very important that the Forum for Nature and Outdoors were not weakened. I am therefore very pleased that, within the budgetary agreement, we have increased this area, and that the majority makes it quite clear that the FNF should not be weakened. The third thing I want to mention is Green Everyday. There are 17 non-governmental organisations that are behind Green Everyday. Green Every day provides information to consumers about the mobilization work in the municipality, in teams and associations and in workplaces. The changes the government had originally proposed, could have led to the green everyday life having had to cancel up to half of the employees, and it could have hit especially the employees out in the counties. I am therefore very happy that we have increased 2 million. kr, and that we have a comment that says clearly that the activity of Green Everyday should continue at about the same level in 2004 as in 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e772	The government provided a budget for employment, well-being and renewal in the autumn. Government policies to create and secure jobs through moderate wage growth, low interest rates and competitive crowns are now delivering results. The government is therefore concerned that there is a positive innovation in society in general, but also in business, and that it is able to contribute to innovation and development and thereby provide the basis for future jobs. This is particularly important in energy research, because the potential for development is enormous. In the right, we believe that it must be a high priority task to facilitate industrial development in order to get more out of the oil and gas resources. As resources become more marginal, values will be created through new technologies and competences. This will require increased efforts on research and technology development. It is therefore very gratifying that energy research is given a significant boost in this budget, in fact in the order of 22 p.m. Three hundred and fifteen million. SEK 2004 has been set aside for energy research, of which SEK 50 million. This relates to the development of gas power plant cleaning technologies, or, more precisely, to CO2 management, which is a more comprehensive concept. Both cleaning technologies, where exhaust gases are exploited for other industrial purposes, and the capture of CO2 and its recovery to e.g. pressure aid in connection with the use of reservoirs is very interesting. In both of these areas, exciting progress is being made, which can mean a great deal for domestic exploitation of the huge resource the gas represents for the nation. I think I have the whole committee with me when I say that we look with keen expectation at the development of the pilot projects that are now on the stairs. The budgetary agreement also promises the realisation of the Innovation Centre for the domestic use of gas for industrial purposes in Grenland. The final solution related to gas transport infrastructure is not yet in place, but must be resolved in close cooperation between the authorities and industry. That's the majority's expressed opinion. Hale production and increased use of reserves are research areas that the majority of the Committee wishes to be a priority. The objective should be to increase the extraction rate of the cap from the current average of 44 pst. to 50 pst. Here lies the huge socio-economic gains that it is absolutely vital that we realise if we are to achieve the long-term development path that was launched in the oil notification. Tax incentives can also be an important instrument in this context. The user-driven research carried out through OG21 and now the innovations PETROMAX and RENERGI are all important to contribute to the development and commercialisation of future-oriented energy and environmental technologies. A large majority of the Committee has pointed out the need for our university and research institutions to play a central role in ensuring the breadth of competence and maintaining the world-leading level of competence established in the petroleum sector in this country. This, of course, is also linked to the allocation of prospective areas for new exploration and extraction activities. It is therefore essential that the Barents Sea be reopened for activity as soon as possible, and in my and the Right's opinion that, among other things. Nordic 6 will be included in the 18th concession round. It is known that the government parties individually have a slightly different view of this. However, I have great faith in finding a balanced solution that everyone can live with. Finally, the size has on several occasions pointed to the large NOx emissions from small-scale shipping and the relatively simple measures that can be implemented to drastically reduce emissions and thus contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Gothenburg Protocol. The budget agreement amounts to 10 million. kr set aside for this purpose, which is gratifying, because the upgrading of existing marine engines is both very cost-effective and environmentally efficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e795	Much of what we do in the budget, to the extent that a tradition prevails, and one of the traditions is that the government, when it comes with its state budget, cuts in the appropriation for liming. So is the tradition here in the country – at least it has been so before – that the opposition, or the party that cooperates with the Government, has managed to slow down some of the adverse effects and get the grant back to the level of last year. It has been completely independent of what kind of bed partners or budget partners the government has had. This time, it did not happen, because it was the Workers' Party that made a collaboration with the Government as the Government did not want real cooperation with the Advance Party. I think it is rather strange that the Workers' Party would not fight to give more money for liming. You could get 3 million. kr, which really doesn't mean much, and you've cut the allocation by $12 million. kr in relation to last year. It is particularly strange when the Workers' Party, together with the Progress Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party in the revised national budget, went against it cut of 20 million. kr as the Government proposed at the time. Then the comments and comments from the Workers' Party were quite strong and quite critical. But it only lasted a few months, and then you volunteered to cut a lot of the allocation. I must say that I am disappointed that the Labour Party did not have enough guts in the negotiations to get this in place. It almost seems like job number. 1 for the Workers' Party is not to take responsibility. It is important to have a predictable and slightly long framework when it comes to liming. It has also previously been agreed and expressed by the Minister for the Environment, Brende. What's the result now is that a lot of the work that's done is wasted. As was said in the hearing of the Norwegian Hunters’ and Fishers’ Associations: Turning off the respirator in the middle of treatment, and the patient dies. I just hope that when you come to the revised national budget, the Labour Party and the government parties will correct some of the damage done in this area. If not, we'll help them with a couple of good ideas. As far as tradition is concerned, there is also a repetition of the government's government agency in the budget. We are dealt with in our ‘Norway digitally’. There was a majority to improve the efficiency and sharpening of the state's maps, and that was what I thought was right. We have wanted to do that before, but the government has not been able to afford to deliver a message before last year, when it finally came. It was time for it to come, so you could do it. We haven't been involved in cutting the appropriations before, simply because we wanted to have a review of the State's maps before laying up the long-term appropriations. When it was done, we were satisfied. And we were quite surprised that during the budgetary negotiations between the Workers' Party and the government parties, another 10 million were cut. according to what had been delivered by the Government. Who has the credit or the guilt for it, it would have been a little interesting to know. If the Workers' Party has demanded this cut, it is in a very strange light as to what has been said and done in the past. Is it the government that has come with the cut of $10 million? kr, it is also quite strange that we have just dealt with a map message, and the government should have dealt with the long-term strategies that were then set up. I expect the Minister for the Environment, on the basis of the message we have received, to clarify in his speech how the allocation would be reduced by 10 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e810	If we are to achieve sustainable development while maintaining the level of well-being of today, environmental policy must permeate all policies. This is set out in Norway’s National Action Plan on Sustainable Development. The challenge now is to make this important. Society must take into account the limits of nature's tolerance and all activities must be planned on the basis of a circuit walk. However, such conversion requires long-term planning and participation by all groups in society. I regret to say that we have a long way to go here. Surface and closed treatment National Agenda 21 received, illustrated and confirmed by the Storting. It's sad, but in any case, it's actually a start on something better. A late start, I must remind you. So it took 13 years after Rio to put in place Norway's National Agenda 21. After such a long period of preparation, we should have gone further, but the action plan should definitely be more concrete and numerically fixed, so that it can help to change the regular political planning and budgetary processes in a more sustainable direction. Work on environmental indicators, research and monitoring by nature needs to be strengthened, including in the budgets. Similarly, there is a need to strengthen both regional and local work on the conversion of production and consumption patterns. Increased support for LA 21 work in municipalities may discourage the cessation of work due to weak local economy. There is a need for projects in the fields of energy, waste and biodiversity, as well as information and training measures, where, in the future, action aimed at schools and kindergartens is particularly important. SV therefore wants to set up a local investment programme for Local Agenda 21, but unfortunately there will not be a majority in this room. In budgetary terms, it is becoming a speck to repeat that future energy sources are renewable. Unfortunately, policy is not in line with this statement, and that is why it is a speck. I therefore need to underline the need to convert to a more environmentally friendly and comprehensive energy and transport policy in order to gain control of pollution and to create jobs. Environmental measures and transport and energy conversion must go hand in hand, and participation in this area by Enova, SFT and Green State is central and must be given priority. There is a basis for significantly increasing national targets in this area. The state must also take responsibility with industry for the development and deployment of new environmental technologies, and SV believes that SFT should have a much more ongoing and active role. SV therefore wants the SFT to receive funding for an environmental technology programme. An obvious candidate for support from such a programme is the scrap iron company Fundia i Mo i Rana — Norway’s largest mercury point emissions. A sewage treatment plant here costs between 50 million. and 100 million. kr. There are costs that the company cannot cover under its own statement without a State contribution. It is clear that in Norway the scrap metal value chain needs to be explored with regard to enhanced environmental requirements in order to ensure that mercury and other environmental pollutants are removed. At the same time, however, measures need to be taken to improve the situation, especially as regards mercury emissions, and therefore we need to make a State contribution to sewage treatment plants at Fundia i Mo in Rana. There is again confusion about the restoration project at the ruins of Steinvikholm in Nord-Trøndelag. In 2003, the Stortinget, on a proposal from the Government, granted 2 million. kr for these works. In a press release on 3 October 2002, the Minister for the Environment said: ‘I want the ruins of Steinvikholm to be restored as quickly as possible, so that the audience can once again enjoy the experiences of the ruins and the stories they tell.’ It should therefore not be unclear. The early memory association, which owns the ruins and manages the work, needs an estimated 2 million. kr each year for the next four years in order to complete the ongoing restoration. Therefore, the restoration work at Steinvikholm must be followed up with sufficient appropriations so that the objective of the Minister for the Environment of having the castle restored ‘as soon as possible’ can be achieved. If these kinds of promises, objectives and majority credibility are to be achieved, concrete amounts must also be set aside in the budget. It was not done in the year's budgetary settlement. It is against this background that the SV today makes the following proposals: ‘The Council asks the Government to submit proposals for the continuation of the restoration of Steinvikholm in the context of the 2005 State Budget.’ I would urge the other parties to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e840	Our country has a great privilege through a rich supply of renewable energy sources. Hydropower has provided a solid basis for business, well-being and housing in all parts of the country. But we also have great opportunities in terms of new renewable energy resources, not least in terms of wind power and bioenergy. The government has clear ambitions for an enhanced investment in these resources. The government entered the 2004 budget to support the reconversion of energy use and production by increasing the overall revenue of the Energy Fund. After the budgetary negotiations, there is still an increase in the revenue of the Energy Fund of about 95 million. DKK for 2004. Overall, in 2004, around 565 million were put off. kr to new renewable energy sources and energy-efficient technologies and measures. The increase in revenue is due to an increase in the mark-up on the network tariff of 0,5 øre/kWh. I have noted with satisfaction that a majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment believes that the potential for the conversion of new renewable energy is significant and that an increased investment in this area is required. The significance of this was also made clear by the force situation last winter. Norway is a power of energy in Europe. We have an estimated half of the oil reserves and a quarter of the natural gas reserves in the EEA region. We are the sixth largest hydropower producer in the world. Our business life has developed a world-class energy-related competence. The challenges of energy policy are to further develop this solid foundation. In a few years, total oil and wet gas production will fall from today’s high level. However, gas sales are within a formidable growth period. We expect more than a doubling of the sales from 2001 to 2010. The level of investment in industry is high, but is expected to fall significantly in the last half of that decade. The objective of the petroleum policy is to achieve the long-term development path. The findings made on the Norwegian base are largely expanded. To reach the development path, therefore, the main task is to identify the undiscovered resources and to realise the resource potential in existing fields. A clear premise is that companies have good access to prospectable land. Furthermore, we must make the most of the resource base profitable. Lower cost levels and a stronger focus on increased extraction measures are key elements in this respect. If we are to achieve this, the removal of significant cost drivers, the use of more efficient technology and the efficiency of work processes are essential. These measures will help to ensure that projects on the Norwegian base remain an attractive investment object for oil companies. In order to stimulate the development and dissemination of new and more efficient technologies, it is important that authorities also participate actively. The new PETROMAKS programme is launched to strengthen research related to exploration and increased exploitation. The government will, as previously announced, come back to Stortinget with an assessment of models for the public funding of the spring petroleum research. Last week’s allocations in predefined areas show an exciting mix of established companies and new actors. Through this allocation, I have also ensured that the area that is not actively explored and brought up to a development decision is returned and made available to other companies. In the less mature areas on the continental shelf, there are still good opportunities to make new, big findings. Through the 18th concession round, which includes both the North Sea and the Norwegian Sea, I want to give companies access to new prospective areas. It is also important to look at the longer-term opportunities offered by the development of new energy technologies. The government entered the 2004 budget to increase the funds for energy research by about 62 million. kr, after the budgetary negotiations, the increase is 56 million. kr. The increase is mainly distributed among the new major RENERGI programmes – research for the clean energy systems of the future – and the petromaks petroleum programme. The Government has endorsed the proposal to increase research related to the development of gas-fired power plants clean-up technologies by 30 million. kr. This is in line with Storting’s agreement to the need for the forced development of gas power technology with CO2 management. It is also within the budget a significant investment in hydrogen as an energy carrier. A hydrogen investment in Norway will require close cooperation with international actors and initiatives. In this context, it is important that Norway has joined the new international partnership cooperation IPHE.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e872	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e875	In a democracy, transparency is important, both because the outside world needs to know what is going on, and so that democracy itself can take a stand on different opinions and positions. It is therefore surprising that the SFT has received a mouth curve in relation to what they think about the oil production, the petroleum activity, in the north. What is the basis of the Council of State to prevent SFT from coming forward with its opinions, and will the SFT’s views be published?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e883	In all these important issues, the Government has placed considerable emphasis on maximum transparency. This applies not least to the ULB, where even my e-mail messages and everything that has been of correspondence have been made open. All the hearing opinions for the ULB are located on the website of the Ministry of Oil and Energy and can be studied there. With regard to the 18th concession round, there are a number of aspects, both in terms of the government's treatment and in terms of its cleanliness, which are important to observe, and at the same time it is important to respect the need for all companies to be treated equally, i.e. there is one notice period applicable. It is this Government has tried to care for. Kristin Halvorsen has asked for the Prime Minister's answer to this, and that will of course be answered. But I can say it so that this government follows the practice that several labor party governments have also followed on these issues, namely not to publish the details of these statements at an early stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e890	The competitiveness of Norwegian pedestal has gradually deteriorated over several years. Changes in the tax environment, such as: in the UK sector with good results, in addition to new prospective areas, are clearly the most important steps to prevent further degradation and deflagration of our most important industry. Recently, Kon-Kraft made some interesting contributions to changes in the tax environment. And the last of many impact assessments in the northern regions is also done, the so-called ULB. Is the Government now ready to make the necessary decisions in these cases? Or can you expect further oil industry resuscitation and screening in the form of even more investigations?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e895	The government is prepared to provide the feedback it has always committed to. This applies from the time the Sem statement was written, with the investigations that the cooperating parties agreed on, and to the announcement of the 18th concession round, which I have promised will come before Christmas. This also applies to the important impact assessment on all-year petroleum activities in the area from Lofoten to the Barents Sea, which the Government will also decide on before Christmas and where the main issues will be clarified by the Government. With regard to the details of this, and the follow-up, it will be included in the announced oil report that will come before Easter next year, and then the Storting will also have the opportunity to address all important questions in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e902	I note that the State Council will not now run the same line when it applies to SFT, as it did in the 17th concession round, but that one now wants a more closed process to do so. SV has, as the Council of State pointed out, sent a letter on this matter. And the Progress Party has also demanded openness, as they did the last time. That means that if the Workers' Party also requires it, then there's a multiple for a different line than the Government this time has chosen. I therefore hope that it can be clarified during this debate by the Labour Party. Then I also have a question as to whether there is an alternative strategy to go further north and start drilling and extraction in the Northland 6 and in the Barents Sea. As I have said several times, there is a number of Norwegian companies working for increased extraction rates in relation to tail production and satellites, to pursue a different policy with a large scale. The problem is that the Government will not be betting. Is there a new tone today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e911	The claim from Hallgeir H. Langeland that the Government will not invest to increase extraction is wrong. It shows the budget for 2004, where petroleum research increases by 25 p.m., and how successively through the budgets for which I have been responsible, petroleum research has increased considerably. It is actually the petroleum research that remains as a clear profile and a testimony that the Government sees the value of betting. But we have to do both. We have to get more out of the fields that are already under production, while at the same time assigning new prospective areas. The government intends to do both. When it comes to 18th concession round and openness, I would say that this government places maximum emphasis on transparency. We have nothing to hide. But we also need to have cleanliness in relation to the oil companies and commercial interests. That's what we're trying to do. But of course, we're going to go into all the questions that have been asked to the Prime Minister, and come back to Stortinget in a tidy way and answer all those questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e918	I want to link my line to renewable resources. It is a policy objective to have new renewableresources of 10 TWh by 2010 and the objective is to invest in more alternative energy as well as angrowth saving. It is important now that current heating transitions to alternative forms of energy. In Norway, we have a total heating market of 53 TWh, of which 66 pst. panel furnaces. The annual consumption of bioenergy in Norway today is approximately 15 TWh, or 6 pst. of total energy use. In Sweden, there is much more. Obviously, there's also opportunities here for us if we're good. The proposal for an electricity tax is fine for business, but it is an example that the framework conditions are not predictable for this bioenergy. Clear signals are needed. My question to Steensnæs is: does the Council of State realise that it is important to develop a clearer national strategy in this important area?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e931	I like to cooperate with both the Center Party and the Storting too much in order to be even more clear on our strategy for renewable energy resources. But the most obvious signal is to actually do something in relation to budget and framework, and this Government has done so. We have not only followed up what the Storting has demanded from the Government that we follow up, we even have increased resources. Following the budgetary procedure here in the Grand Duchy, the grant to Enova will have increased by approx. 20 pst. This is a significant increase. That gives us new possibilities. And I think it's also a clear signal out. In the case of waterborne heat, I will come back to this when the staging message on security of supply is available, and it will also be presented before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e940	The Labour Party looks forward to the response of the Prime Minister, when the Council of State chooses not to respond. But I wanted to follow up on the search activities and the 18th concession round. So, as I am informed today, there is no search on the Norwegian base at all. The challenge within this industry is, as has been said before, a major one to follow the development path or the weather path, and the supplier industry is also in a crisis in this respect. At the same time, we know that there are oil companies that have also applied to start searching in the so-called Farsund pool in Skagerrak. I wondered if the Council of State would at least give a happy signal to the peoples of the south, as to whether there could be any activity in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e947	Now I do not know where Rolf Terje Klungland has the information that there is no search activity on the Norwegian base. It must be a misunderstanding. There were worrying reports that the rates of rigging activity and drilling were significantly lower than in previous years, but it has been shown that these figures have been adjusted up and are somewhat better. As far as Skagerrak is concerned, I have to say, for my part, that this is not the area where the government first of all looks at. It is simply because we are here in areas that are important for both fisheries and the environment, and of course the representative of Klungland is well aware of that. But in addition, there are also areas that will be very close to land, and where the risk of damage that is significant in the event of an accident is something that the Government will pay attention to. On the other hand, we have concentrated attention on the northern seas and are trying to find a good solution there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e954	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e957	Even if the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, in our opinion, is a far better budget than what the Government proposed, the budgetary agreements between the Labour Party and the Government Party are involved in turning industrial policy in the right direction, which we are more satisfied with. For the Workers' Party, employment, more money for municipalities, more for schools and more for health and care have been crucial in order to enter into an agreement as it is today. In addition to the concrete budgetary changes, the agreements also contain other good measures that we have agreed on. Among other things, the working party was given an impact in order to make more progress in taking more of natural gas into domestic use. The financial position states that the Government is asked to ‘come back to the Stortinget in spring 2004 with proposals on how to increase domestic gas use in an environmentally friendly way’. Here, the innovation centre in Grenland will be important, giving them a mandate to ‘establish a national gas technology programme to drive environmentally friendly use of gas for energy purposes’. This shall also include CO2 handling. It shall also be considered to extend, where appropriate, the operation of the company to include the use of gas in industrial processes and solutions for hydrogen as an energy bearer. Not enough of that, the company will be established during 2004 and not in 2005, as the Government and the majority have stated before. Furthermore, we are very pleased that the Workers' Party has got the government party to agree that a support scheme for the construction of pilot plants for gas power plants with CO2 handling needs to be established as a matter of urgency. Such a pilot is Norwegian Hydro well under way to plan. We have long felt that the Christian People's Party, Right and Left have trampled in the brake when we in the Workers' Party have wanted to go ahead in this work. Already two years ago, we proposed the creation of an innovation company in Grenland. The fact that the government party is now involved may indicate that they are now releasing a little bit on the brake. I'm very happy about that. The budgetary position today is therefore very important in developing an environmentally friendly gas power technology, and therefore also important for Grenland, where the innovation company is to develop such a technology. This is an important step forward in getting natural gas to Grenland, an energy resource that industry has been asking for for a long time. This should be a great signal to the industry that it would be possible to get something concrete about infrastructure to get the gas up to and including. Grenland area. Unfortunately, a non-budget debate was closed to a state-owned company to invest in gas transport infrastructure. But the Labour Party does not give up for that reason. Here we will be at all conditions, and it is worth noting that ECON Analysis has now produced a report that provides a good basis for further work on the use of gas for value creation in the South East. Finally, there is also reason to be happy that the Storting is currently allowing $5 million. kr to the Green Hydrogen project at Notodden. In short, this project is about producing hydrogen gas in an own combustion plant, and then delivering gas to special buses. Yes, think about it: By burning up the waste – burning up the garbage – we get gas that can be used for useful energy! This is a good follow-up to what the Greatness said in March this year, and signals a great political will to drive this project forward, or, to put it another way, from word to action – or, if you will, from observation to money.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e979	Through the 2004 budget, the Government will pursue an active Norwegian environmental policy. The budget makes it possible to take better care of biodiversity and our main natural areas in mountains, forests and coastal areas and to preserve priority cultural memories.The budget makes it possible to step up efforts to clean up old environmental sins, prevent new environmental threats from hazardous chemicals and maintain a clean and rich sea.The budget makes it possible to continue our active international involvement in relation to global environmental problems. Many of them also hit ourselves and not least in the northern regions. I am pleased that the bulk of the population joins these broad lines of the Government's draft budget and provides us with a good basis for pursuing offensive environmental policies in 2004. In order to protect endangered plant and animal species, we must also take care of their habitats. At the same time, many of our most special natural areas have an untapped potential for increased tourism use. Therefore, the Government will ensure the continued effective implementation of the National Park Plan, strengthen supervision and care in national parks and strengthen efforts to save the wild and mountain reefs in Norwegian nature. Never has a government taken care of so much nature in such a short time. Since accession two years ago, we have created a total of 219 new protected areas. This represents 7,840 km2. To take care of the Norwegian wildax tribe, the government is stepping up the fight against the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris. In the last two years, appropriations in this field have almost doubled, and work is stepped up in 2004. Following the implementation of the previous plan for forest protection, the Government will intensify its work on new forest protection and increase its appropriations in 2004. Increased protection of forests is important both to preserve biodiversity and to ensure the export of forest products to environmentally sound markets. In examining the state of the State of the State's environmental situation last month, Stortinget joined the main lines of the Government's forestry policy. In cooperation with the Norwegian Forest Association and the Directorate for Nature Management, we want to gain experience in the use of voluntary forest protection and how we can thus capture the most protective forest and nature species. The objective is to achieve a professionally sound level of protection while at the same time reducing conflicts significantly. We will also make greater use of our own forests for protection purposes, including: through trade-change arrangements. The government continues to invest in cultural memories. The return of the newly created Culture Memory Fund has doubled compared to 2003 and the allocations will trigger increased efforts in 2004. So I noticed that some people believe that the fund should be bigger. This fund, which has been discussed for 30 years, and no one has done anything about it, has actually been established by the Government, and will double the fund's return in 2004. In the cultural memory work, the government will give particular priority to nationally important cultural memories, such as medieval staves and other medieval buildings, coastal culture and the preservation of the Norwegian World Heritage Sites and the new nominations for the UNESCO World Heritage List. Special investments in 2004 are the World Heritage Sites Bergstaden Røros and Bryggen in Bergen, both of which receive increased appropriations. Next year we will step up work to clean up old environmental sins in ports and fjords. In the big news Clean and rich seas, a whole new comprehensive strategy for this work was drawn up. Efforts increased significantly from 2002 to 2003 and escalated further next year. We are also continuing to focus on research and monitoring. Next year, we will also strengthen the monitoring of new pollutants, so that we can at an early stage detect new environmental threats from the most dangerous chemicals and take the necessary measures in time, so that we can release similar costly clean-up measures at a later stage. The government has presented action plans against brominated flame retardants and PCBs. These plans contain a number of measures and will ensure that our emission targets are met. We propose a stronger control and follow-up of breaches of the legislation and aim at stricter notification practices when clear breaches of the legislation are detected. The government follows up the Johannesburg Summit, in particular in the WEHAB areas, water, energy, agriculture and biodiversity, through an increase of more than 370 million. aid in the field of the environment until next year. Through the Norwegian Presidency of the UN Commission on Sustainable Development, we will present in April a status of the world in the follow-up to water, sanitation and housing issues from the Johannesburg Summit and show how the commitments can be achieved within the deadlines.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e1017	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e1020	A reply to a Council of State can be used for two things, either to attack the Government — and it may often be important enough for the political debate — or the line can be taken in the hope of getting the most positive response. I want to do the last thing today, and I want to do it in relation to the Mapping. In the setting on page 65, the Government Parties and the Workers' Party have a common note about the Cartwork. We refer here to a letter from Børge Brende, which says that the reduction to the Cartwork will involve further demands for sharpness and efficiency, as well as that the creation of digital map data will take a little longer. Then the majority writes that ‘if there is a change in relation to this, a request from the Government will come back to this in the revised budget’. With the changes that the Cartwork is currently facing, the Cartwork will have to spend a lot of money on replacements and waiting wages. If these conversion costs lead to tightening in addition to what we now know, will the Council consider coming back with the means of conversion in revised form?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e1029	There is no doubt that the government is facing difficult priorities in the design of next year’s government budget. Increased health and care efforts, in schools and kindergartens, also mean that we need to make budgetary priorities and changes. And one of the priorities that the Government did was to demand increased efficiency and sharpness in relation to the state mission that we have in relation to the state's mapping. For this reason, the Government made up for a reduction of 18 million in the appropriations allocated to the State Charts, as mentioned in the budget proposal. kr. In the budget negotiations with the Labour Party, this reduction was increased by 10 million. kr, and I stress that such an additional requirement for sharpening and efficiency in the Mapping Network could lead to some postponement of digital map data. It is also the case that these reductions could lead to replacements and waiting wages, and it must be covered within the budgetary framework established by the Magnitude of the Cartwork.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e1036	The Minister for the Environment has been absent in the debate on oil and gas in the northern regions, and one can really be pleased with the protector that the Minister for the Environment has had. Nevertheless, after hearing the comments from the representative of the Left today, and also contributions from the Right-wing Representatives, in particular the representative Halleraker, I need to ask the question: is there a political or environmental question when talking about oil extraction in the Lofoten or the Barents Sea? And: Does the Council of State agree that it is environmentally sound to permit oil exploration in the Lofoten or in the Barents Sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e1043	As has been explained both by the Steensnæs Council and, in fact, by several representatives here, different input has been made in connection with the ULB that has been presented and sent out to the hearing. These recordings will be included by the Government in the further process. For example, in the case of input from different environmental directorates: State pollution control by its Director stated that there is no refusal to open, for example: The Barents Sea, subject to the strict environmental requirements laid down and to be laid down. When the Government decides on this, it becomes an overall assessment. I noticed that Stortinget looks forward to it, and I take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e1052	I note that it is difficult to get the Minister of Environmental Protection to say something specific about oil drilling in the north. But he must be more specific when it comes to SFT and openness compared to the fact that Stortinget has recently adopted an environmental information law that requires this public awareness. And so it has been an established practice before, so the Minister for the Environment must answer that question. I quote from a press release by State Councillor Børge Burnde on 3 October 2002: ‘I want the ruins of Steinvikholm to be restored as quickly as possible, so that the audience can once again enjoy the experiences of the ruins and the stories they tell.’ Then my question is this: Is it so to understand that this restoration is speeding up without one having seen money for her, as the Minister for the Environment has not seen money for it? Is that how you're going to fix this? Finally. What does the Minister for the Environment think about SV's proposal on PCB luminaires link to a collection and reuse system?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e1066	It is far from Steinvikholm to the Barents Sea. In connection with the ULB, the Director of the SFT has said that SFT is not in principle opposed to petroleum activities in the Lofoten and the Barents Sea. It may be appropriate to set in motion in certain areas within a short period of time. But it depends on the environmental requirements. I do not think that should be expected then, and I do not think that the representative of Langeland really does, that I should forge an important government treatment from the European Parliament. The government will present a complete and proper arrangement for the Storting. With regard to the so-called established practice of the SFT consultation opinions relating to concession rounds, it is an interesting input. However, on several previous occasions, SFT’s hearing opinions relating to concession rounds have not been published. But of course, SFT's input related to the ULB is published.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e1077	It is right that the Council of State said that it was this last government that created the Cultural Memory Fund. It's fine. But being satisfied with the returns is something else. $13 million. kr for this great purpose is not much. A little bit more about cultural memories. It's important to take care of them. Houses, and not least vessels, are destroyed every year. It's too few funds. A nice combination here is that, in addition to the ship rusting down and being destroyed, there is a high unemployment rate for shipyard workers. Here you have a good opportunity to combine. The National Association of Technology Enterprises, the Joint Confederation and the Norwegian Association for the Protection of Vessels have merged to combine measures against unemployment and also to protect and preserve these iron and steel vessels. What does the Council of State think about this good combination? Can the Council of State think of going further in that direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e1086	I actually think it's a good combination, and I'm also adding 20 million. kr for ship protection until next year, in addition to the fact that coastal culture has received a separate chapter and entry in the budget. In the case of the Cultural Memory Fund and that the return of 13 million. kr is too small, of course it would have been free for the Storting to increase the capital of the Cultural Memory Fund. I have recorded that it does not happen until the next year, but what I have also registered is that when the Senterparti put in government, little happened to the Cultural Memory Fund. Then there was also the requirement that a cultural memory fund be set up, and that it was urgent. As I mentioned in my post, this has been a requirement for 30 years. A year and a half ago, this government set up the Cultural Memory Fund in the revised national budget, with a capital of 200 million. kr. Now I think the Board of the Cultural Memory Fund needs to work for some time, and then we can always come back to Stortinget with one thing when we can prioritize a further increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e1093	In the budget agreement concluded between the Government and the Workers' Party, it was decided that there would be an agreement if you changed the amounts and the consumption of the money. This meant that we went to negotiations to get the support up when it came to watercourse liming. Those who are most disappointed with the budgetary agreement are well the Progress Party, which has two environmental issues, liming watercourses and Gyrodactylus. It is nevertheless an important matter that this liming is maintained at a level that leads to that we do not get fish dead and empty watercourses where it has already been limed for several years. I therefore assume that if the consequence is now as notified by the Norwegian Hunters' and Fishers' Federation, the Council of State will follow this closely in order to avoid fish deaths and empty watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e1103	It is clear that I am continually following up on what is happening both on the map side and on the liming side. But it's actually that when you cut the appropriations for lime in a budget settlement and increased a cut from 18 to 28 million. kr. On the state's maps, it obviously has consequences for us to cut. I cannot therefore guarantee that I will report back to Stortinget that the cuts have consequences. We've been aware of that all along. As far as maps are concerned, I can support the re-prioritisation we have carried out, as I mentioned, to the elderly, health and kindergartens. Acid precipitation in Norway has been reduced by 65 pst. The last ten years! It is also true that the area affected is reduced from 100 000 km2 to 43 000 km2. The Directorate for Nature Management says that it is safe to cut 5 pst. in existing projects. That's the background for this cut we've agreed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e1110	This government is pursuing an offensive environmental policy. It has never been taken care of as much Norwegian nature in such a short time as during this government. Since accession in 2001, the government has set up a total of 219 protection areas of 7 840 km2, to which the Council of State itself was advocating. Several new national parks, national parks centres and protected areas are planned to be established next year. The protection of wilderness areas, so that generations can experience pristine nature and the conservation of biodiversity, are important keywords. This is achieved both by establishing more national parks and by emphasising increased forest protection. In a number of contexts, protection has led to conflicts with landowners, and it is therefore positive that the Government has placed great emphasis on anti-conflict measures in addition to increased appropriations. In this context, work should be mentioned in relation to the voluntary protection of forests. Once this has been received so positively by the forest owners, it is important that the state, on its side, can follow up and actually buy forests that are made available in this way. The right is therefore happy that the government has set aside $18 million. kr. to new forest protection for next year's budget. The government's offensive environmental policy is also reflected in the willingness to take measures to clean up pollution in fjords and ports. In St.meld. No 12 for 2001-2002, Clean and rich seas, a new comprehensive strategy was drawn up for further work on cleaning up contaminated sediments in fjords and ports. A number of activities have already been undertaken, including: through state-of-the-art action plans, clean-up in four high-risk areas with a risk of spread and the establishment of an overview of sites where there may be a risk of pollution from shipyards and marinas. Furthermore, a national Council has been established for contaminated sediments. This Council shall, inter alia, advise the Government on the best professional and most cost-effective methods for cleaning up the seabed. It is positive that this Council also has representatives from the Norwegian business community among its members. The clean-up appropriations have been increased by over 40 pst. from 2002 to 2003 and these are further stepped up in 2004. For a nation that wants to profil itself on clean sea food, this type of action is important to follow up. As for the government's work within the energy field, we have some major areas that need a special focus. This relates to the energy balance and to the basis for further growth within the petroleum cluster in connection with the Norwegian cap. The drought that led to low water levels in the warehouses and high electricity prices in the year that went on shows both the disadvantages of our unilateral dependence on hydropower and the fact that the market needs to supply more energy. Therefore, the Government’s offensive attitude to the development of new renewable energy sources is an important work. Among other things, NVE per today's concession to wind power plants with a total production capacity of approx. 1.8 TWh per years, and in addition pre-notified projects with a total production capacity exceeding 5 TWh per. years. The government's offensive commitment to new renewable energy sources is also reflected in the budget. The payments made to renewable energy through the Energy Fund managed by ENOVA have increased from approximately the beginning of the budgetary agreement between the Government and the Workers' Party. 470 million. kr. in the current year to approx. 565 million. kr. on the budget for next year. For the right, it is important that technology neutrality and cost-effectiveness are used to determine how the funds are disposed of. The most important thing is to get the most new renewable energy back for each krona. In addition, it must be pointed out that this government has opened up about six times more hydropower expansion than all previous governments combined in the 1990s. The activity now shown in relation to bets on small power plants is very positive. Many creeks of small gears that are known to be a big one, and together they represent these important contributions to the energy balance. In addition, it has a positive impact that this type of investment contributes to ensuring a living base in rural areas. It is therefore important that the work of the Government continues in relation to ensuring the basis for this type of establishment, inter alia. through simpler procedures and through charging policies. Therefore, it is also positive that in its draft budget, the Government has proposed a doubling of R & D projects from 2003 to 2004 linked to small, small and micro-power plants, in order to precisely reduce the cost of development and ensure operational profitability.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-08.ana.ud2630e1146	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is late. The President proposes that the meeting should now be suspended and that we continue the examination of cases No. 1, 2 and 3 when a new meeting is scheduled to take place at 2 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
