ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e45	The called alternate of the Uppland County, Reidun Gravdahl, has taken the seat. The representative of Mr Øystein Djupedal will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e53	On behalf of the representatives of Kristin Halvorsen, Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to propose immediate action against unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e58	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e76	I have received a number of enquiries from people who are not satisfied with the treatment they have received from Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation, which I will now refer to as NPE. This may, of course, be due to the fact that the NPE has rejected the claim for compensation on the right basis, but very many of the requests are about people feeling ill-treated. People live in uncertainty, the proceedings extend over the years, and the threat of going to court leads to the NPE changing its position. This to mention something. Of course, more or less random enquiries do not give a complete picture, and one should be careful to draw bastant conclusions on such a basis. The point of this interpellation is therefore to contribute to a debate, ask some important questions and put an area where I think improvements are needed, in focus. First, just a little bit of a look back. The Patient Damage Act entered into force on 1 January of this year. The law is largely based on the temporary compensation scheme for patient injuries introduced on 1 January 1988. A major evaluation of this mechanism was carried out in 1994, and the evaluation was given much to the legislative design. In dealing with the bill, the size had high expectations that a permanent law would guarantee patients the opportunity for good follow-up. The entire social committee was concerned that the law should focus on the patient’s injury. Nor should the patient prove that anyone in the healthcare system can be molestered because the damage has occurred, and the committee concluded that lawmaking would allow more patients to be compensated both through the scheme and through the courts. The Committee agreed that the general right to compensation does not provide adequate protection for persons injured in the provision of health services and that practices must be based on a less stringent assessment of negligence. So the size has tried to facilitate NPE for the benefit of the individual. So far about the intention, but let me give you some examples of what people write to me. A man writes: "We believe that it should not be such that we should have to meet scrupulous lawyers in a difficult case in court in order to get compensation." A woman writes: ‘I know a case where the hospital doctor admitted mistreatment and encouraged the patient to seek compensation from NPE. He did so, but immediately received a rejection and gave up." Another woman writes: ‘After we had appeared in the media, among others. In the NRK pulse I have received several enquiries from the whole country from people who are in the same situation as us, they feel that the NPE has not given them the help they expected. Is it possible for a welfare profession to be known by such a body? Now we have appealed our case before the Court of Human Rights." Most victims contact because it takes so long for them to fill out the claim form until the matter is settled. An important reason for the choice of a replacement scheme was faster procedure. The scheme should be cheaper and smoother than the court. An important question in this interview is: What measures can be taken to ensure that this intention can be met? Are there too few case handlers in the NPE? Do we need to find new methods to ensure that hospitals inform matters more quickly? When it takes a long time, is that the will or system it should do something about? If expert opinions are needed in most cases and it is difficult to obtain objective experts in the small professional communities in this country, should the NPE then obtain a Scandinavian or European contact network of experts who can assist so that this part of the procedure does not take too long? It is not certain there is the law there is something wrong with, perhaps practical measures around the processing flow can improve the situation for many patients? Another important area that I want to touch in this interpellation is birth-related damage. Based on what I have read about the law and its treatment, it is not clear that certain categories of damage should be subject to more stringent risk assessment. However, of the enquiries I have received, it seems that it is particularly difficult to get compensation in case of birth defects. I ask you, are birth defects to be treated differently from other injuries in the NPE? I have received an enquiry from a parent who 10 years ago had a daughter with a serious birth injury at Nordland Central Hospital. For six years, the case was dealt with in Norwegian Patient Compensation. During the six years, the NPE never contacted their parents or asked any questions about the damage message. It was eventually concluded that the baby was injured during birth, but there was no replacement. Specialist opinions from various gynecologists were obtained, but these did not contact their parents to hear their version of the course of events. The parents believe that they unilaterally prided themselves on the information in the journal, which, in the opinion of the parents, was wrong. The case was appealed to the Patient Damage Department, where they did not agree. After the examination, it had been seven years. But the parents nevertheless chose to go to court, and won the courtship. The NPE chose to appeal to the law, where the parents lost. The NPE stressed the importance of questioning the parents' explanation, since it had been so long. What about the patient's legal certainty? It takes six–seven years to deal with the case, and it seems that the time aspect also has consequences for the outcome? For many, going to court means a financial burden in a situation that is already difficult. Some of the desire for their own law and order was, of course, that the economy and especially strong resources should not be necessary in patient rights cases. As I said, through this interpellation, I want to contribute to the debate. When it comes to patients' injuries, we meet people who have often suffered a lot of suffering. They deserve our respect. So we have to ask ourselves, does NPE work properly? Is things perhaps getting better? Where does the road go?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e115	Let me start by saying that, like the questioner, I find reason to take seriously that patients do not feel safe in the patient compensation system, and that I fully share the intention that the system must function satisfactorily in relation to people in a vulnerable situation. We have been given a new law from the New Year to replace a temporary system for the compensation of patients. I will outline the background of the scheme that is in force today. In January 1987, it was decided that the Ministry of Justice would investigate the issue of establishing an objective liability for patient injury. Pending such a law, a temporary compensation scheme was established. The scheme was established on the basis of an agreement between the country and its counties. Rules on temporary arrangements for the compensation of patients for somatic hospitals and outpatient clinics came into force on the basis of the agreement in force on 1 January 1988. As of 1 July 1992, equivalent rules were laid down for the municipal and municipal medical services and for psychiatric hospitals and their outpatient clinics. The number of cases has increased since its creation. In 1992, Norwegian Patient Compensation received 1109 cases, while the comparable figure for 2001 was 2239. The compensation payments made by NPE amounted to 218 million in 2001. kr. From 1988 to 2001, compensation of NOK 1.4 billion has been paid from the scheme. At kgl. Res. of 11 September 1987, a panel was appointed to investigate and propose legal provisions on the compensation of patients. The committee gave its opinion in December 1991. In September 1993, the Norwegian Patient Compensation Board appointed a sample, the Evaluation Committee, to evaluate the temporary system of patient damages. In February 1994, the Evaluation Committee conducted its investigation into the Norwegian Patient Indemnity Board. The results of the investigation were taken into account in the preparation of the law. The Ministry of Justice then promoted in Ot.prp. No 31 for 1998–99, a proposal for a law on compensation in the event of injury to patients, the Patient Injury Act. In Ot.prp. No 55 for 1999–2000, About the Act on Compensation for Patient Injury etc., the Department proposed some technical adaptations to the draft new Patient Injury Act. The proposal for a new Patient Injury Act was dealt with by the Social Committee in Innst. O. No 68 for 2000–2001, and the law entered into force for public health on 1 January of this year. As you know, the Patient Injury Act extends the temporary system of damages to patients. The temporary scheme contained compensation rules covering public somatic and psychiatric hospitals with their outpatient clinics, as well as municipal medical services. The new law extends the scope to the entire healthcare system, including municipal hospitals and private health services. The scheme is based on so-called objective liability. There is an extended liability in relation to what otherwise arises under Norwegian replacement law. The general right to compensation requires the detection of negligence, guilt, from perpetrators in order to provide a basis for compensation. Under the Patient Injury Act, carelessness does not have to be demonstrated in order to be compensated. Section 2 of the Patient Injury Act provides the basis of liability by providing compensation for more than that resulting from general compensation rules. Compensation shall be granted for damage to patients caused by failure to provide health care even if no one can be loaded, technical failure of apparatus, tools or other equipment used in the provision of health care, infection or infection not due to the patient’s condition or disease, or in the event of vaccination. Consideration shall be given to whether the claims of the injured party to the establishment or service at the time of the damage have been infringed. Insufficient resources do not give rise to responsibilities if the allocation of resources has been sound and the activities in general have maintained a sound standard. In addition, compensation may exceptionally be provided when a patient injury has occurred which is particularly large or unexpected and which cannot be seen as a risk to be accepted by the patient. The information provided in advance shall be weighed. Furthermore, it is an objective responsibility that is reflected in unexplained responsibilities. If the cause of injury is not apparent and the damage is likely to be due to external effects on a patient during treatment, it should normally be assumed that the injury is due to failure or failure to provide health care. By substituting the liability for more damages than the general right to compensation, the scheme provides for the possibility of compensation for several patients. It is clarified in the preparatory work of the Patient Injury Act that the threshold for establishing responsibilities must be set at a level that is too low than too high. The fact that the liability of the Patient Injury Act applies to all patient injuries, and not only in the event of public health damage, also means that more patients are allowed to be compensated in relation to this law than before. It assumes, however, that the law will come into force in its entirety. I aim that it can be done from 1 January next year. But even today, more are covered by the Patient Injury Act than before, by the fact that the responsibilities covered by the State are larger under the new law than under the temporary regime. In many cases, the time taken to deal with the case is unacceptable. It is therefore necessary to intensify efforts to shorten the procedure for cases in Norwegian patients’ claims. As in most claims, it will take some time for compensation to be paid. It may take some time to determine the relationship between the damage and the act of harm and it takes time to determine the extent of the damage. Most cases are resolved within the patient injury regime in two years. At the end of 2001, the NPE statistics show 94 pst. The cases reported in 1998 were closed, while cases reported in 1999, were 85 pst. the end of which has been However, some cases may take a very long time. Factors relevant to the duration of proceedings include: the complexity of the matter and the availability of the necessary documents. The majority of the time spent in the proceedings agrees to communicate with patients and their lawyers and to obtain assessments from medical experts. In cases where consideration is given to compensation, it may be necessary to await the outcome of ongoing treatment, or to clarify how he/she will cope with the situation in the workplace, before the proceedings can be concluded. The birth defects, on which the interpellant was involved, are generally in a difficult position and may take a long time because it may be necessary to see the development of the child in order to assess the extent of the injury and hence future needs. Where there is a basis for this, Norwegian Patient Compensation recognises liability and makes a temporary payment. In order to increase the focus on processing time, the Ministry has proposed, in a legislative proposal now under consultation, that if a case has not been completed within two years, the patient may ask the patient to take over the handling of the case. This is an action that I believe will put a considerable pressure on the processing times in the NPE, and which I believe can work in this way. Norwegian Patient Compensation has developed a website with information on the scheme and the procedure. Here patients are told how to proceed with their case. It follows from the Patient Injury Act that the Administrative Act applies to the NPE proceedings. As a result, the parties to the proceedings, the injured party or the person concerned and the place of processing shall be kept informed of the proceedings, inter alia. to have a copy of the correspondence sent in the case. The type of non-communication referenced by the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen will be a clear violation of these legal provisions. The size has in St.prp. No 1 for 2002-2003 asked for an evaluation of Norwegian Patient Injury Compensation and Patient Injury Scheme. I fully agree that there is a need, not least in the light of the criticism that the scheme has been subjected to in recent times. The Ministry of Health will therefore provide an independent evaluation and has asked the State Consultant to carry out that evaluation. The mandate of the evaluation shall include, inter alia: shall focus on the service patients receive from the NPE, which was an important theme of the interpellant article here today. It is also important to focus on the length of the procedure and to focus on the use of experts to inform matters. The understanding of the legislation used by the NPE during its proceedings will also be examined, and it will not least be looked into whether the intentions and leadership in the preparatory work are being safeguarded in a satisfactory way. I believe from this point of view that we have a good basis for dealing with patient injuries in Norway. On the basis of the results of the evaluation now under way, I will look into the need for further action to ensure patients a good system and good treatment, and I will come back to Stortingen with a detailed explanation of the conclusions of the evaluation process now under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e172	Let me start by thanking you for the answer. I must say that I think the Minister for Health gave a positive answer. It was an offensive health minister who answered, and he did not fall for any temptation to go into a defensive position. What I find interesting is the answer to the Minister of Health – which is an assessment I would like to say far on the way – is that the law we now have and are about to get in place should be sufficient for the Storting to do its job in relation to the need to have a clean and good law for patient damages in Norway. I think it's a long way from here. It is clear that there may always be a need for some minor adjustments, but the law is in place. So the challenge is to make the system work in line with the intentions of the law, and here I think, as I tried to point out in my main post, that it's a little bit of a way to go. I believe that this was also in the response of the Minister of Health, for example. that the duration of the proceedings is unacceptable. Now we have an evaluation of the scheme, and I think it is very important that the Minister of Health should – of course – present this evaluation to the Committee, and also invite the Committee to a dialogue on what kind of measures must now be implemented in order to have a system that works in practice as foreseen by the Stortinge by law. Some of the stories that have come to my ears through the fact that people have approached the Storting, I have to say, are of such a nature that the service and reception that people have received is under any criticism. You can kind of understand that people can have a stressful work situation, and that there are demanding things, and of course there are two parties. Of course, Norwegian Patient Injury Compensation should not be a form of Friendship for patients. But the attitude and respect you're going to meet people when they get in touch, there's no doubt about it, and that's why there's every reason to keep this matter in focus. As I said, I am pleased with the offensive attitude that was in the response of the Minister of Health, and that is why I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e183	Let me say that I agree with the interpellant that I believe that we have essentially a code that is good in relation to the objective that has been with regard to the establishment of a patient compensation scheme in Norway. However, I would like to point out that there have been some changes in relation to putting pressure on the NPE by allowing patients to request the case after a certain period of time and thus interrupting an excessive procedure in the NPE. Let me also say that the NPE's task is to help the individual to his right, neither more nor less. But that's also NPE's problem. It's not possible to make all of them layers. It is not possible to meet all the requirements. But there is no excuse not to treat people with respect and provide good information and service. Here, singles indicate that there is a room for improvement. With the little experience I have from other parts of the administration in the fight against long processing times, I know that this is true. It is possible to focus on what causes delays in the processing process, and how to block out bottlenecks in order to speed things up. I say this in respect of the fact that there are a number of things in this field that need to take time, simply because they have such a character that the requirement cannot be resolved in a very short time. But when that is said, I believe that the potential for shorter processing times is there. I want to monitor closely whether the NPE has the necessary capacity and competence in relation to this, and I want to make sure that on NPE's board there are people with experience of this type of work that can be involved and develop the administration of the system in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e195	The health minister’s response gave the impression of the necessary follow-up to the way in which the patient injury compensation works in practice. As a wholesaler, you receive over time many requests from people who feel neglected or rejected directly in response to the patient compensation system. What characterises many enquiries are extremely long processing times, which appear to be the nature of pure training in many cases. Some things that do not find their solution also seem to be very serious. This means that enormous demands are made on the endurance and perseverance of the person addressing a substitute question. It shouldn't be like that. It is in the nature of many cases that they are complex and require both time and thorough treatment, as the Minister of Health explained. Of course it's like this. I see that I have to stress the seriousness of the things I've come to know, by mentioning an anonymized single thing, which can stand as an incredible, but true example: A university hospital expert states that a patient has experienced very serious adverse reactions and health problems with the use of the prescribed medicinal product. The case has now been in progress for approx. seven and a half years in Norwegian Patient Indemnity and Medical Insurance Pool. What I read about the case files, and what the person involved is experiencing, is a round dance between constantly changing case handlers who are approaching the absurd. The case ends in a lawyer's interpretation from e.g. The medical insurance pool in a pure-bred Erasmus Montanus style, and concludes that despite the patient’s injury, the patient shall bear the risk of mismedication and subsequent health damage. Even in the lawyer’s assessment of liability, it is said that there is a causal link between the use of medicinal products and damage to organs. Doctors who have not been close to the patient express that there is less than 50 pst. the likelihood that the damage has sustained the patient but, as this patient’s actual state of health contradicts it. Like this, we can't have it. It is totally unacceptable that patients seeking help meet a system where the forces are directed towards breaking the patient instead of giving help in a constructive way, and perhaps giving financial up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e210	In order for a patient compensation scheme to function properly, it is essential that it has confidence in the population. Firstly, it is obvious that people seeking compensation after having intended to be mistreated in a health institution must feel the security and trust of the institution established to assess their requirements. Secondly, it is necessary to avoid many of the claims being placed in the ordinary judiciary, with the burden it entails, especially for the plaintiff, but also for the defendant and the courts. In addition, this could lead to a two-tier system, where those who are resource-intensive will have the greatest opportunity to raise a case. There are many factors that will be involved as to whether the population will have confidence in Norwegian Patient Injury Compensation and the new Patient Injury Act. The case-handling time, on which the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen focused in his interview, is one of them. There is hardly any person who does not think that a procedure of several years is unacceptable. Many of the patients seeking compensation are in a deep crisis, and then also two years, within which most of the cases are dealt with, will appear to be a very long time. However, there will be cases where it is difficult to have a rapid procedure, including: because information is to be obtained and the extent of any damage is to be determined. Therefore, it is important to already have an opportunity, and to use it, by providing temporary and provisional compensation. Similarly, there is a point that the Patient Injury Act should go beyond what is otherwise common under Norwegian law. Several will be able to be compensated, and the scheme will be more attractive than the ordinary legal system. In response to Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, the Council of State pointed out concrete measures to improve the compensation system, including proposals sent for consultation in connection with the new Patient Damage Act. He also referred to an independent evaluation to be launched, including: the provision of services to patients and the processing of procedures shall be part of the evaluation process. It is important to follow this closely and actively, and I am pleased to note that, in the light of the evaluation, the Minister of Health will follow up on any further action and come back to the Stortingen with this. The Patient Damage Act is part of putting the user in the center. In the public sector as a whole, there is a strong focus on this, including in the health sector. We have free hospital choice, and the patient has greater influence over his own treatment. A service and user-oriented patient compensation scheme, where the user is met with understanding and help to file his case, is a matter of course in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e225	I am pleased that this interpellation has traveled, and that it comes before the examination of Document No. 8:1, which is part of the Social Committee, concerning the victims of the Dent-O-Sept scandal in the Norwegian health care system. It is natural for me that in this article I only mention this matter. Initially, I refer to a letter from the Minister of Health dated 1 October 2002 to the Social Committee: ‘By Norwegian law, there will always be a lower limit on the risk and what the injured party himself has to bear. Torture and reparation would involve the use of public funds that could, for example, have gone to patient treatment. I believe that the introduction of such a compensation scheme would result in an unfortunate priority for the use of public funds.» In particular, I find this statement very provocative. In my opinion, there must be no doubt whatsoever that the hospitals in the Dent-O-Sept case had a separate responsibility and were negligent by not using sterile oral care aids for patients in the respiratory system with a significantly weakened immune system. I also feel that this responsibility must be taken inward by the Minister of Health and the Department. A patient must absolutely not have to tolerate being put on sepsis, blood poisoning, in a public hospital during intensive care and twice being brought into such a life-threatening situation without this causing compensation from the hospital. The offer of compensation of NOK 5000 for the woman who was brought up by the hospital in such a life-threatening situation twice is a pure provocation. We don't know the extent of the Dent-O-Sept case in its full width. Several patients are likely to have died of this infection without a claim for compensation in this way. Although compensation for torture and prie is not a practice in Norwegian replacement law, I believe that the Dent-O-Sept scandal should be dealt with separately, as it is hopefully a one-off incident that you will not see anymore in the future. This matter is so important, both in principle and in relation to the hospital's responsibilities, that it should be possible, if it was willing, to get a special order around this hospital scandal, possibly by providing cheap compensation. The Committee will also come back to this during the final examination of Document No. 8:1.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e243	The interpellant takes up a matter area that may be bad for it, regardless of whether there are few or many who do not receive good enough or fast enough treatment under the patient compensation scheme. Patient replacement is a replacement for the individual who is exposed to injury or mistreatment within or outside the healthcare system. Until 1 January of this year, there were temporary arrangements, the first in force since 1987, which have been the legal basis for the compensation. From 1 January this year, the permanent law was partially in place. Full implementation will be aimed at taking place from 1 January 2004. Both the interpellant and the Minister of Health point out too long time for dealing with a number of issues. With the full understanding that many areas of action may be difficult, the Minister of Health has to press the pressure to bring the procedure down to an acceptable level. It has to do with integrity and respect for the individual. One must not experience just being a sliding piece between different denominators and professional experts. I'd like to pick up birth defects in particular. They're probably the most difficult ones to deal with. The full consequences for the children can be discovered only after several years. In such cases, as in other cases, rapid and good management is important, but here it is also important to keep the book open, often a few years, in order to get a safe assessment of the possible damage in the long term. The law is in place. Implementation will be completed within a year. The Minister of Health will follow up with an independent evaluation and in an active way on compliance with the laws. I'm sure that will happen. If it appears to be missing in the system, it will be followed up by the Minister of Health. Norwegian Patient Compensation should not and should not be an institution that acts in such a way that, in a vulnerable situation, the patient feels unworthy to be treated. A full implementation of the laws should help correct missing information until now. The patient replacement is available to help and support those who have come out unluckily.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e260	Once we have dealt with these cases relating to the patient compensation system and the patient injury law, it has been the intention of the Stortinge to have a quick and robust procedure. The patient compensation scheme should be implemented, such as, inter alia: The Minister of Health has explained that this would be a more flexible and fairer arrangement than if court proceedings were used. It is important that we have a patient-injury system and a patient-injury law that can give everyone equal opportunities for safety, protection and compensation. When I point everyone out, I mean, among other things. no matter what kind of economic and social status and opportunities you have. The basis of resources for action shall not be such as to determine whether a person can claim his or her rights. So today it is asked whether it is the will or the system – in other words, the procedural procedures – that is why this is not working properly. We must then get an answer to that, and I am pleased that the Minister of Health is now signaling that an independent evaluation is to be carried out. It may be difficult to find complete coverage for ‘independent evaluation’ when agencies or bodies within the country are looking at their own schemes, but I hope that this evaluation will show what action needs to be taken to improve this. I also hope that the Council of State and the Government will inform the Storting in an appropriate way about what is being done. It's also important to look at whether the law we've been dealing with here works according to our intention and what was our purpose when we dealt with it. It is important that the service, the processing time, the professional competence of experts, etc. be assessed in such an evaluation, but it is most important that patients are given a system capable of safeguarding their safety and rights. In other words, patients must be able to feel cared for, especially in relation to feeling respected. The outcome of the proceedings may be as fair as possible, but patients should at least feel cared for and respected. Under this patient compensation scheme, one should be service-conscious and professionally capable, so that it is perceived by the population as solid, objective and haze.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e275	Let me begin by saying that I am pleased with all the speeches that have been in the debate. I think they show clearly that the Storting is genuinely concerned with this matter, genuinely concerned with the patient and the patient's rights, and that we are going to have a patient compensation scheme that will protect these rights in such a way that the patient feels respected and respected. I can't say that the posts in this way surprised me, because what I've read about the processing of the law, which was treated before my time in the social committee, showed that the strong commitment I feel has been expressed today, also present when the law was being treated. So the sum has to be -- with a few exceptions maybe -- that we have a law that's good enough, and that we have a greatness that shows a strong commitment that the system should work better than it does today. We have a health minister who has expressed that he shares this view and that he has plans to move on. I believe that what I wanted to put under debate in connection with my interpellation is taken care of. Of course, I will promise the Minister of Health – something else he would not have expected either – that we will follow closely what is now happening, with a view to making improvements and that they will have to come as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e285	I should just like to say briefly that the debate has shown two things that are crucial to my further work. Firstly, there is a broad commitment to the system we have now set up, and secondly, that there is an impatient increase in the implementation of the scheme which is responsible for it. I take that with me in the work on the evaluation, which I have now commissioned State Consultant to carry out. I take that into account in the design of the legislative change that I have sent to the hearing, which I mentioned in my first reply. I take that with me in the ongoing work to get a better service and a shorter processing time in Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation. The question raised by the representative, Mr Alvheim, is addressed to the Social Committee by means of a separate Document No. Eight proposals. I therefore think it appropriate to await the opinion of the Social Committee on that proposal. It will be dealt with in Stortinget, and I will then have the opportunity to comment on it. So far, I believe that there is a good basis for further work through the debate that the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, has taken the initiative here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e294	That is the examination of case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e312	What are we going to do with research? A broad majority of the United Kingdom has joined the economic goal of our research activity: to reach the average of OECD countries by 2005. This is to the extent that a very concrete goal measured in crowns and ears, except that the goal is constantly moving upwards. In 2001, the OECD average was 2.2 pst. GDP. Then the Norwegian R & D effort was 1.62 pst. of GDP, equivalent to NOK 24.5 billion. About half of this took place in industry, and the other half in public institutions, research institutes, universities and colleges. Even with strong growth in R & D appropriations for 2002, we did not get much closer to the OECD target. A characteristic of the Norwegian research effort compared to the OECD is that the public share of appropriations for research in Norway is relatively high, while the share of industry in funding is similarly lower than in comparable countries. Thus, we have a two-part financial challenge: not only a sharp increase in the total volume in order to achieve the agreed objective, but also to increase the financing contribution of industry accordingly. With the introduction of the so-called TaxFUNN scheme over the last two financial years, it may seem that we have succeeded in increasing the research share of industry. Preliminary feedback and reports suggest that the tax FUNN will be a success and make a significant contribution to increasing R & D in business. This also increases our overall research effort. In other contexts, it is pointed out and, in part, generally recognised as one of the most important explanations of the relatively low research effort from industry that we in Norway have a very special industrial structure. We simply have a business structure with less elements of industries with a high R & D intensity than is the case in many other countries. Among other things, we have no high-tech company of the size of Nokia as a dominant food and research player in our country. This can help explain some of the lack of R & D efforts by industry, but does not address our challenges in terms of innovation and increased value creation. Because, in addition to the financial and economic challenge we have linked to our R & D efforts, we also have a lower rate of innovation than comparable nations, in particular based on what is desirable and necessary to ensure the innovation and development of our future business and employment. It shows, among other things: the evaluation by the Norwegian Research Council. In addition, today’s business situation demonstrates very precisely the need for innovation, the development of ideas, new products, new markets and new commercialisation opportunities both to maintain value creation in society and to create attractive new jobs. If we are to be able to compete in an increasingly internationalised and globalised market, it is precisely in the area of knowledge-based and knowledge-intensive production that we can have our advantage. At the same time, it is important to note that increased research activity alone is not a guarantee of increased innovation, entrepreneurship or greater innovatory capacity in society. I therefore believe that it is both imperative and desirable to formulate clear objectives based on assessments of the areas in which particular attention should be given and which sectors of industry should be affected. In other words, everything can't be as important at the same time, nor in our R & D activity. If we are to achieve the desired results, the need for prioritisation and targeting of research efforts in my opinion is obvious. Research can also contribute to the consolidation of specific structures, with a one-sided orientation towards parts of existing business. In this picture, our university and college environments come too far. Some point out that an important weakness of our current R & D system is a lack of orientation towards new business and its inability to contribute to innovation through the start-up of new businesses. An important question is the extent to which the development of innovative ideas in university and higher education environments is exploited, commercialised and continued in profitable and successful business, and the role of universities and colleges in relation to enterprises. While we from abroad see hundreds of ‘spin offs’ of new businesses from universities and research institutes, such as Cambridge in England, Linkøping in Sweden or Oulo in Finland, our university environments seem to play a much more modest role. The same can be said about most of our higher education environments. This is hardly due to professional competence on the basis of traditional criteria, but rather to the lack of interest and conditions in the environment in order to translate knowledge into business. The government has put entrepreneurship and commercialisation on the agenda through its own research-based innovation programmes, the TaxFUNN, change in the Law on Higher Education, giving more freedom to individual institutions, changes in the law on patent rights to facilitate the commercialisation of research results, improved access to risk capital at an early stage of development, self-recruitment notice on recruitment to our research institutions, strengthening the position of real-time students in schools and much more. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this issue affects the fields of work of other government councils, but if we are to improve and achieve our common objectives of increasing innovation, more innovation, more entrepreneurship and higher value creation as a result of our research efforts, we need to achieve an even closer interaction between industry and our universities and universities. There is no doubt that the Research and Education Councils have a primary responsibility here. Now that the Ministry of Industry is reviewing the instrument of innovation emphasis, it is important to include and integrate research policy in this work, with the development of clearer research policy objectives and strategies. Nor do I see any contradiction in developing a closer interaction between business and research at our universities and colleges, and in maintaining the independent position of these institutions as a haven for education and long-term basic research, driven by the search for knowledge, curiosity and genuine professional interest. I think it's necessary that we focus a little more on what we get back for our research appropriations, what is needed for incentives and structures in order to achieve the desired development and goal, as well as focusing on increased appropriations. It may not be enough to focus on our universities and colleges with the education and research going on there either, but that the fundamental problem or the challenge of innovation and entrepreneurship is the lack of learning of the good attitudes, interest and creativity further down in our education system. Seeing opportunities, taking financial and personal risks, and not least wanting and seeing opportunities to make money and create jobs are attitudes that many would claim to be culturally conditional. Such – from my point of view – good attitudes are hardly enough to learn theoretically at a university or at a university. More fundamental and long-term instruments may need to be used in combination with good personal incentives and motivation for individual researchers and research communities. Today's career paths and credit systems for researchers at our universities and colleges can also be mature for changes, such as: contributions to the commercialisation of research results are given greater emphasis both on career and wage development. In this context, the quality reform opens up so that this can take place on an individual basis at individual universities and universities. Good systems for the exchange of researchers between research institutions and industry can undoubtedly be better developed than is the case today. I also believe that even closer cooperation between our good researchers and our social and business life can help make teaching more interesting, living and practical for our students. I look forward to the Council's analysis and assessment of how we can ensure increased innovation and value creation in our society, especially as a result of our increased R & D effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e350	The representative Voie addresses a topic that is very central. In a knowledge-based society and business life, research and development are very important for innovation, industrial development and value creation. Growthoreticians estimate that between 20 and 50 pst. productivity growth in industry can be attributed to changing technological assumptions. Internationally oriented knowledge establishments are increasingly dependent on being close to technological developments, and that is not enough to be good enough. You have to be excellent. The government wants Norway to be one of the world’s most innovative countries — a country with attitudes and culture to create new ones. In key areas, Norway will be at the forefront of international knowledge, technology and value creation, as we are already doing in the oil and energy sectors. The prerequisites for achieving this objective are good, according to a new OECD study. The overall level of education is high, we score well in relation to the start-up of enterprises and entrepreneurship, and there is a growing understanding that more attention needs to be paid to research and innovation. On the other hand, we have some challenges. The quality of Norwegian research needs to be strengthened. Our business life researches too little. There are too few inventions based on research at universities and colleges, and for weak links between these institutions and business. Increased knowledge transfer between research and development environments and business is important for most OECD countries. However, in Norway it is particularly important because we have a larger element of small research intensive enterprises and industries. Research is among the top priority areas of the Government. The Government aims to increase Norway’s total expenditure on research and development to at least the average OECD level by 2005. This is an ambitious goal. However, other countries are even more ambitious. The aim is that R & D efforts in EU countries should be 3 pst. of gross domestic product by 2010. Through its Lisbon strategy, the EU has set itself the goal of becoming the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world. So what does the government do to achieve its goals? Research appropriations under the State budget have been significantly strengthened both in 2002 and 2003, and this escalation will continue. High-quality research is essential for Norway to keep in touch with the international research front. Currently, Norwegian research has a strong position in several areas, including: geology, petroleum research, marine research, climate research and brain research. In addition, we have individual environments that have shown that Norway can assert itself in internationally heavy areas such as ICT and mathematics. Nevertheless, many evaluations show the need to further increase the quality of Norwegian research. Therefore, the 2003 budget is set at more than 200 million. kr until what we call purely quality promotion. I can mention here the Centre for Excellent Research, Excellent Young Researchers, the SIMULA Centre and the Abel Prize. Quality reform gives universities and colleges greater freedom and flexibility, but also increased responsibility for providing education that is better adapted to business and society. At the same time, the reform will ensure increased quality in education and research, thus contributing to maintaining a high level of competence in Norway. Nutritional exploitation of research results is often a demanding process, and ideas and inventions in the scientific community are often not fully exploited today. Therefore, the Law on Higher Education has been amended to stress the responsibility of institutions for the use of research results and inventions in industry and society elsewhere. Furthermore, last year the Stortinget decided to change the law on employee inventions, as proposed by the Government. The amendment gives universities and colleges, if they so wish, the opportunity to take over the commercial exploitation of inventions made by employees of the institution. New rules for externally funded activities at universities and higher education institutions entered into force in January of this year. The institutions have thus been given the necessary room for action to find the organisational solutions they find appropriate to cooperate more and better with business. We now see clear positive trends towards a cultural change at universities and colleges in terms of cooperation with industry. There has also been a growing awareness in institutions of the importance of developing the entrepreneurial spirit of students and employees. Many higher education measures have been implemented. For example, I can. mention the Founding School, where eight universities and colleges participate, the Venture Cup competition and many courses and guidance programmes for entrepreneurship, including: by NTNU. The government's objective for research training is to train 1 100 doctoral students annually in the coming years — an increase of 60 pst. Such an increase will ensure access not only to doctoral students for universities and colleges but also to business. This is important for business to increase the use of research and its own research efforts. The Government, through the reorganisation of the Research Council, aims to strengthen the role of the Research Council, both in terms of quality in research and innovation in industry. The Research Council shall ensure quality and contribute to the adequate attention and priority of universities and colleges of major research strategic initiatives with a bearing on future value creation. The Research Council also has an important function as a bridge between business and academia. The so-called user-driven programmes are targeted at cooperation projects between enterprises and research institutions. The Government has also strengthened the Research Council's own programme resources, which are directly aimed at stimulating commercialisation from the university and higher education sectors. In order to contribute to a more research-based business, a tax credit scheme for R & D expenditure for small and medium-sized enterprises, known as the ‘TaxFUNN’, was also introduced in 2002. This year the Government has extended the scheme to cover all enterprises. TAX FUNN has proved so far to be a great success. In 2002, more than 2 600 applications were made, with a total budget of about 2 600. NOK 4.5 billion, approved for support. About one third of the projects involve cooperation with an approved R & D institution. TaxFUNN is therefore an important tool for increasing the interaction between enterprises and research environments. Increased investment in real science and technology will be one of the key prerequisites for knowledge-based innovation. Last fall, the government launched a strategy for real-time investment. The community needs more people in real science and technology. We are now coordinating existing measures and putting in place new ones for improved recruitment, including women, quality raising and contact with the labour market. The government also devotes considerable resources to international research cooperation. Norway is actively participating in EU research cooperation. The 6th Framework Programme, now in place, emphasises the promotion of innovation by strengthening cooperation between business and academia. Norway is actively participating in the Framework Programme, and Norwegian research communities are well-counted in relation to the funds that Norway contributes. Finally, in the autumn of 2002, the Government decided to draw up an action plan for a comprehensive innovation policy. The plan will be launched in the context of the 2004 national budget and will facilitate increased value creation across the country. The action plan shall contain concrete measures that may increase innovation activity in the economy. Particularly important areas for this action plan will be research-based innovation, entrepreneurship and general framework conditions for innovation in business. Especially for the action plan, the attempt will be to see all the elements of research-based innovation in the context, and on this basis take action at the weakest stages of the chain from research to business.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e382	Thanks to the Council of State for a positive response and a summary of all the measures taken by the Government to focus on – and not just to focus on, but to address – the situation and find tools that make the situation of innovation, innovation and entrepreneurship in our country better than has been the case for a few years, and in particular that we get to this interaction, this interaction, between academia and our business and social life in an even better way. I perceive that there is a great deal of consistency between the reality and reality that I had in my post, and the summary of the analysis that the Council of State expressed. The reforms that have been implemented also have the strength that there is a very wide gap in the Great Britain behind these measures. There is long-standing cross-political agreement on the measures referred to by the Council of State. I also agree that the quality reform gives each institution a relatively high degree of local freedom of action, individual freedom of action and the ability to adapt to its environment and partners, whether in society or in business. But I'm a little concerned that we also need to focus on the driving forces that are needed to make this development go even faster. Then I believe that, in addition to system reforms and system changes, we also need to look at the individual measures and the individual arrangements. In this way, this is an individualised measure with a view to strengthening skills and giving opportunities to those who wish to invest specifically in these subjects. But I also think it is necessary to achieve both interdisciplinary cooperation, greater interdisciplinary cooperation and greater interaction that we develop individual incentives, individual incentives that can go across sectors, and that make those who have a glowing interest, a glowing enthusiasm, a glowing drive to create jobs, to create business activity, to translate good ideas into good business and commercial activities, also get rewards both for the initiative they take, and the efforts they make.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e391	I don't disagree with the interpellant here. I wasn't so much into the Quality Reform in my post, but no matter how demanding it is to be conducted at universities and colleges – we have to say that it is, it's a big change – there's one thing I have a very strong impression that those who are employed at universities and colleges, and also the students hopefully, find very interesting already, and that's the possibilities that open up for multidisciplinary work through the Quality Reform in relation to the situation before. I am quite convinced that this is also a potential for innovation and innovation. I think one of the reasons why we on the Norwegian political side have not contributed as much to innovation as we could have done is the strong sectoralisation between disciplines and sectors, which means that we are talking little together and achieving this synergy that is just in multidisciplinary and cross-sectoral thinking. Some of this government is trying to overcome this innovation action plan where different departments, different sectors, talk together to improve synergies. In this respect, with individualised measures, I believe that institutions, universities and colleges, in the context of the quality reform, have been given more room for action and incentives to also use individualised measures, to use workers more flexibly and also to reward them in a more flexible way. But otherwise, I think an important recognition is that some of the distinctions between research species are erased in the sense that basic research has become much more important for innovation. The path from basic research to innovation has become much shorter. That's why I think it's right what the Government and the Biggest are at the heart of research policy, that on the one hand we need to put a strong emphasis on what we can call long-term, fundamental research. It could give a countdown, it might not give a countdown. But when it gives counting and returns, it is often fantastically large and has a great impact on innovation policy. We maintain these areas of activity decided by the Stortinget in connection with the research report, and it is important to stick to them once you have made up your mind. In addition, I think we have been quite good at also betting on some large, cross-cutting programs, conferences, for example. FUGE, which is cross-cutting in a professional sense, but also transversal in the sense that it is both fundamental research and about innovation and close contact with business – a model I hope we can develop further, and on which we have so far started, perhaps, with regard to the allocation of functional materials in the 2003 government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e400	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e403	Now there was no political bomb for me that there was a connection between the representative Voie's vision and the Council of State's analysis. - But for the theme. I would also like to start by stressing the broad political consensus on increased efforts in research and development. I also think that's a prerequisite for success, as it's not exactly an independent electoral magnet or the matter on which it's easiest to focus in the political debate. The short time allows me only a few main points of view from the Labour Party. The Labour Party believes that increasing the volume and resources of research and development is crucial for our society, not to say, more correctly, our future society. Not least in the current situation of high and increasing unemployment, R & D efforts can contribute to innovation and new jobs, a necessary part of the overall employment package. There is a cross-political consensus on the economic objective of Norwegian R & D efforts, that we are going up on the OECD average during 2005. It will require a particular increase in the contribution of industry, but also strong priorities in public budgets. It is positive to record the high interest in the depreciation scheme for business, SkattenFUNN. Increased size of business research and development is the objective. New hats on old projects might be some of the results in the first place. It is therefore necessary that we are not only concerned with the size of R & D efforts, but also with quality and results, which I perceive is the points of the interpellant. We must constantly have with us the purpose of research, knowledge building with importance for industrial development, social development in general, and not least individuality. Then I think we need to focus on the context and interaction of the overall research environment. Basic research, an effective research apparatus, recruitment, research dissemination, quality improvement and evaluation are necessary. Norwegian research must maintain international standards. In Norwegian research policy, a specific focus shall be on four main areas where the potential for increased value creation is high, where one can build on special advantages and where society needs to undergo major transformations. It is necessary to maintain strategic efforts in an increased research effort in the future. We need closer cooperation and joint arenas between business and research environments to succeed in innovation and innovation, or as I heard at a conference the other day – a research-oriented business and a business-oriented research environment. I believe that the changes in laws adopted by the Stortinge last autumn concerning the right to invention will help to increase the commercial exploitation of inventions in research at universities and colleges. In the follow-up to business incentives, we also need to ensure that these become schemes that business across the country can benefit from their assumptions. This has to be evaluated. Research and development provide new knowledge and basis for innovation and innovation. However, in many cases, there is a question of seed capital or risk capital in the transition to industrial activities. In this area, public accountability and the availability of funds must also be ensured through, for example: SND system. Here the Government has a clear potential for improvement. Increased research and development efforts are essential for our society. Then it is important that we take action, see the opportunities for interaction in the field of research and exploit the total research resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e426	The interpellant addresses an important theme. Often, the debate in this area is concentrated on the importance of increasing the focus on research and development. It is important enough, but it is often omitted to link this to business and to increase value creation. It must be important that research can give rise to interest in innovation and that new knowledge and results in research can be used in business. I would like, as the Council of State did, to point to the tax FUNN scheme as a very successful scheme. Not only to increase our overall research effort, but also to increase the industry's share in research. In particular, the tax FUNN scheme has generated a high level of interest in small and medium-sized enterprises. From my own geographical area, there are several examples of enterprises that have found opportunities to invest in research and development through SkatteFUNN. I can mention a small business in Riser, Skagerrak Skjell, which highlights in the local press how important the scheme has been to their ability to invest in research – a commitment that has been necessary for the further development of the company and, in fact, for a future life. If we are to be able to increase the research effort of industry, we need to have schemes in which business itself is given the opportunity to determine how they will work towards research based on their own needs and focus. The FUNN tax scheme is such a scheme. It seems to have good results. One important reason for success is that it hits small and medium-sized enterprises, and with our business structure it is important. I hope that this system can be continued and further developed. Further development is necessary, because there are elements that can be clearly improved in terms of how the scheme is practised and regulation. Increased innovation and more entrepreneurship are important for further development in business, and I am pleased that the Government has launched its own programmes to stimulate this. There's a lot of creativity, a lot of entrepreneurship in our society, not least this turns out in the countless student and youth businesses that are established in primary and secondary schools. However, both these actions and other creative ideas and ideas will only become diurnal if they cannot be further developed and stimulated through targeted research and development. I would like to underline the points of the inter-pellant on the importance of including research policy in the review of the instrument that is now to be carried out with a view to increasing the focus on value creation. Increased innovation and value creation are necessary to ensure a good future for business. A close link between business and research environments is then important and necessary. I am very pleased with the positive signals of the Council of State through her contributions today, and I have no surprise, based on the statements of the Council of State – and there is no surprise either – hope and faith in a positive development in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e441	There is agreement on many aspects of research and innovation, but there does not seem to be the same broad consensus on bringing together the qualitatively good research environments and further strengthening them at the expense of research at all levels in the country. There is also a lot more to be done to convert the knowledge we have into products and nutrition. Norway is a country with a high level of education. There is a significant problem that the high level of training of employees is not translated into innovation and innovation in industry to any particular extent. It is positive that the tax FUNN is received by so many sign up to the scheme, but, as is also pointed out, there may be poor or poor orientation towards new business. It may also be so simple that both new and established businesses do not have the necessary capital to actively translate new knowledge and research results into their business activities, and the tax rewriting rules do not help very much in the long run. It may well be that a relatively modest level of tax depreciation alone will not be enough to bring about the innovation that businesses and the nation are in great need of. Norwegian industry is mainly based on small and medium-sized enterprises, we all know that. The small ones are very small, and the medium-sized ones are small on an international scale. This means that there is a very high need for risk capital also in established business. It may be difficult to use tax depreciation rules over time if there is no capital to invest in R & D and innovation that can provide the basis for depreciation and new products. We know that competence is present, but it seems to be too poorly exploited. Politically guided cooperation between business and institutions should be careful. Money, large sums available, are important. Unfortunately, the growth in research funds we call powerful does not take into account the dynamics of other OECD countries. As this appears today, fund capital should probably be raised to DKK 60 billion in a few years. The further road must continue to be to pool funds in good environments with a high level of competence. Furthermore, risk capital must be sufficiently available. In the case of start-ups of enterprises that rate new R & D-invested products or services, conditions need to be significantly improved than they do today. I'm glad that the Council of State has initiated cooperation across departments, and I'm looking forward to the outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e456	It's an important matter Søren Fredrik Voie brings up. The danger of this kind of debate is that they get something ritual about themselves, with the impression of a little self-plating. If we're going to get innovation, we're going to take care of our advantage, and we're going to stimulate our advantage. And then what is our advantage as a nation? We have a high level of knowledge in this country, and it is important that we take care of this high level of knowledge. We have established a thirteen-year continuous compulsory school, and it is important that we take care of and develop this school. It's important that we have a system of higher education, that we have a university system, that we have colleges, and not least that we have institutions that work, and that are organized in such a way that we get the best out of it. We have to have point skills, and we've arranged for that. We have established several centres for excellent research – an important issue in this regard – and we have a top research programme, etc. So our job is to create a good framework. In the Research Communication, we adopted four thematic fields of action. As the Council of State said, it is important that we stick to these. The four thematic areas of activity are marine research, information and communication technologies, medicine and health and the intersection of environment/energy. These are the four areas of activity that we have notified to the Research Council and others that here we are to put the resources in place. All of this is absolutely essential for us to be able to stimulate innovation and innovation in our society. In one area, I'm not sure if we've optimised our way of organizing. It is in the relationship between public education institutions, public research institutions and the institute sector. I am not sure that we have chosen an organisational form that allows us to optimise the use of resources. It's an area that I think the Council of State should look at more, maybe we'll have an opportunity to discuss it in Stortinget. For that part of the framework conditions is very important if we are to be able to make good use of our resources. We've decided to go up to the OECD average level, a modest target. Without polishing, I want to make a quote from the time we dealt with the research report – it was something important that the NHO said to us: ‘In the view of the NHO, the Government expresses a very modest ambition that Norway should, within 5 years, increase to OECD averages for R & D. As well as the financial strength of Norway as the challenges we face, there should be a commitment to the countries that are most likely to bet. For example, if we are to increase by EUR 15 billion at the level of Finland.’ This was well said, and it was said by the current Council of State – she had a different role. But whatever the role, I wish we had managed to meet the challenge that NHO and Kristin Clemet had for us at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e478	It's an important theme the interpellant addresses. In the Christian People's Party too, we share the view that research and development must provide innovation and new added value. Therefore, focus on quality and results is justified, while we have to think in the long term. I am also pleased to note that the Council of State announces an action plan for innovation in business, and looks forward to having it addressed in the context of the budget next year. Some brief point for the Christian People's Party: Continued increase in research and development efforts is important. We have ambitious targets in relation to the average OECD targets, and we stand by them. We also record that the re-discussed conversion of the tax FUNN has been a success so far, and we believe that it should deliver results in the future. But what I'm also noticing is that if we're going to achieve our goals, we need to get more effort from our industrial locomotive in Norway. I therefore want to raise a debate on the ownership role of our industrial companies. Are we so focused on taking dividends that the next step in value creation and further development comes as No. Two? Should we not rather take advantage of dividends rather than encourage companies to invest in research and development, and have a greater focus on it in the future also in relation to our large industrial locomotive? There, I think we need to have a dialogue with the business community in the future. I record that in today's business today, research director Christian Hambro has what I want to say is an optimistic article on research. He has a message: we must be long-term, so don't change focus too often. I think this is an important message, which I also heard from the Council of State, namely that we are betting on the long-term basic research that the Research Communication has drawn up. And it will support the Christian People's Party. The second point that I want to raise is that this with entrepreneurship must be promoted as a student culture and as a research culture. In this way, exchanges between institutions and businesses are becoming important, and we need to strengthen links between business and the research environment. I also believe that the patenting provisions now open up new opportunities. Finally, I believe that the dialogue between the research sector and the State agency can also be improved, and it will be important in the future. We need an interaction with private sources of capital, but I would like a greater diversity of funding environments for research.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e496	Interpellant Voie raises an important question when he calls for consistency between research efforts and increased value creation in business. It is right that the representative Voie points out that the introduction of new tax rules has had a positive impact on industry’s contribution to research efforts in general. But it is worth noting that we are far behind in relation to the ambitious objectives set in the research communication. The latest available figures for research in Norway are for 2001, where the level was 1.62 pst. of gross domestic product. It's just 0.12 pst. higher than when the OECD target was set in 1985 — i.e. 16 years ago. So when the interpellant says that Norwegian university and research environments seem to play a much more modest role in innovation and innovation than similar environments internationally, one of the explanations is that public research efforts are very low compared to those in other countries. This is one reason. Our industrial structure is largely focused on value creation based on natural resources. The problem of current research and innovation schemes is twofold. They are to a small extent targeted at these areas in particular, and they do not cover the whole value chain from research and development to innovation, commercialisation and market development. It is therefore necessary to create new alliances between the research system and business. What is needed is a ‘breeding aid’ that enables the knowledge produced by public research to be commercially applied. Protevs in Bergen is an example of the government's infallibility in this way. A promised equity of 10 million. kr was not allocated to the budget and thus the business community is waiting to be lost at a well-functioning link with the research communities. Such an alliance should characterise all parts of the education and development sector, from entrepreneurship at school to make the transition from research to commercialisation and to cooperation between the large institutionalised environments at university level. Norway has, as Rikvam says, two competitive advantages. One is capital, and the other is knowledge. These must be exploited. SND has been ribbed for capital in the last two years. Both the loan schemes and the aid schemes have been severely curtailed. It is hard on the small businesses and not least the good ideas and entrepreneurs that should be raised further. Most countries have instruments to do this. We lack risk capital for the flora of the small businesses. Capital is needed all the way from the idea stage to commercialization. In Norway, we have a rich country and limited private investment environments. We have acute skills and high growth potential if venture capital becomes available to business. But then there must be a willingness to use oil money domestically. One answer is to use SND, another is to connect private and public capital. In the opinion of the Centre Party, a number of smaller funds should be set up in accordance with the model of the Fund for Social Security in cooperation with private capital. By strengthening access to risk capital, we will be able to have the long-term economic and value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e516	This is an area where politicians must have perspective and long-term thinking. In the age of populism, it is not that easy. I'm very happy to have a government and a government council that manages to do it, sail if not all of the "pluses" on the state budget were such that everyone liked it – and those who complained about this, on previous speeches, didn't even have room in their own budget. Today it's like 90 pst. of the large technology companies such as Nokia, Ericsson, etc. producer, not found 10 years ago. Another frightening perspective is that in a society where educational levels are increasing, we know that innovation and entrepreneurial culture are falling by the level of education. This means that a separate challenge in relation to the level of education is to introduce the entrepreneurial culture. Then we have tradition of exporting ideas. I remember that 13 years ago, my party leader stood on the platform at the national meeting and held a heat pump that no one had heard of. It was invented in Norway, but was produced in Sweden. I think there are many challenges on both the research side, the entrepreneur side and the innovation side. I think we have a great job to do in relation to the red tape of research, and that we don't have cultures that build entrepreneurs. I'm very pleased with the real science and technology efforts of Regereninga, but it's also important to focus on the entrepreneurial culture of education. Furthermore, it is important to focus on student exchange, which is also a cultural exchange in relation to corporate culture, research culture and entrepreneurial culture. I think what we are doing here today is much more important for both district and labour market policies than $2 billion to build school buildings. This is future. This is the way of thinking that brings us forward. But as I said, in the age of populism, it's not that good to argue for it. That is why we in the Left are very happy to have a government that is betting on this and is a driver, but a broad majority in the UK is needed to achieve the OECD level we wanted to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e529	I would like to thank Søren Fredrik Voie for addressing such an important topic, namely focusing on the objective of research and putting research into a perspective on value creation, in order to increase our competitive advantage internationally. The tax FUNN system has been widely discussed from this pulpit during the debate, and I just have to say that it seems that it works according to the objective, and it is very good for companies that want to research, and not least for companies that have knowledge capital. However, Norway is made up of many small and small enterprises, and they are specifically located in the district of Norway. It is clear that this greatly limits participation in such a scheme, because one does not have knowledge capital in the enterprise to be part of and to be a locomotive. Nutrient effects of research and knowledge-related production are very often seen and mainly localised in the vicinity of universities and research institutions. This poses a double challenge for industry in the districts: knowledge is far removed and there is a lack of knowledge in the enterprise and its neighbourhood. It is important that educational and research institutions start cooperation with enterprises of all sizes, including on the outskirts. A prerequisite for the success of industry in districts in a knowledge-based economy is also to participate in research. More research needs to be done on the premises of small enterprises, and training and research institutions should be stimulated, inter alia. to research in enterprises, together with enterprises and on themes that are important for small enterprises, including: to enhance the internal competence of small enterprises and, in particular, to ensure relevant research for small enterprises in Utkant-Norway. I don't think Norway will be able to achieve its research goals unless the small businesses in the districts are also involved. We see examples of this from, for example: Iceland. All equipment used in the fishing industry in Norway is purchased from Iceland. This is because close cooperation between the fishing industry and the research institutions has resulted in such production in Iceland. This is also important to do in Norway. It's important for District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e544	I think it's nice that so many of the contributions here have expressed positiveness about the problem and the need to develop an even better research-based innovation policy in this country. That promises good for the future. I also think it is very good that we now have an action plan for research-based innovation and entrepreneurship. It is from my point of view the basis for Norway's future that we are really discussing here. Knowledge-based value creation and knowledge-based production are the area in which all future researchers claim we have the opportunity to compete, as a small and exclusive nation with a high cost level of everything we do. Then there is this area to ensure our future well-being. From this point of view, I would also like the future running in this field to be entrusted to the Minister of Education and Research, or perhaps in another way: that the Minister of Education and Research took the primary responsibility for leading this policy and for this development in the future. This is not just about what's going on in universities and colleges. It's about our entire knowledge policy, from kindergarten through primary school, high school and up in the system, and it therefore covers about everything that happens in society. Therefore, the main responsibility should lie on the Councils of Education and Research States. One aspect of this with the future is also turning our universities and colleges and researchers towards a position and perspective that is consistent with the premises of business, i.e. research on business premises. And then I refer to the aspect that, among other things, The representative Robertsen addressed the needs of small businesses. The best we have in Norway are small enterprises — the exceptions are the large national groups. Being small doesn't mean that you don't have a great need for knowledge, a great growth potential and a great research potential, but you need to get into a better dialogue with these companies. And finally, I also think that the Council of State has a great job of spreading the good examples, generating driving forces to create the good attitudes to interactions between our business and research communities, and also to speed up interdisciplinary and interdisciplinary research, which is what business needs are all about, we are going to get the desired development.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e557	I would like to thank the committee for the debate. I will end by touching three relationships. Firstly, there have been many years of beggarly research in Norway. An average newspaper reader has been able to record it. There has been a lot of disparity and conflict both about the level of funding and about the research council system and the structure. Now it's more quiet. It may be that many are waiting, but I also think there is reason to say that there are points of light, both quantitatively and qualitatively, in Norwegian research, and in terms of the innovation side, partly because of research policy, but also because of the general policy, which now facilitates increased private research efforts. The representative, Voie, mentioned that we should refer to the good examples. Let me do that. It is not natural for Norway not to do so. Let's take a company like Amersham Health, originally Nycomed, that collided with British Amersham in 1997. Since then, the company has increased the number of employees in Norway from approx. 750 to over 1,000. It is a very research intensive enterprise. It's invested over $2 billion in Norway. It is therefore possible to locate international research activities in Norway. Two important prerequisites for this are that there is proximity to good basic research environments and access to good candidates. That means that we have to have a good and broad knowledge base in general, that is. that we must also draw the link between higher education and school policy. I don't think we can count on being excellent at higher levels if we don't also have something that's excellent at lower levels, to use such an expression. Then we come to the school's ability to develop creativity and entrepreneurship – things we can get back to, among other things. in connection with the communication we are about to promote on culture at school and in relation to school. We also come up with basic skills in key basics. The second thing I want to mention is that the Government continues its work on the follow-up to the evaluation of the Research Council. We would like, among other things: study further the practice of the so-called sectoral principle. We will also look at the financing of basic research, including: if it is possible to create a greater diversity, as the representative of Lyngstad was involved, in terms of sources of funding. I personally also place great emphasis on closer dialogue between industry and the academic community, also to contribute to better access to risk capital, as the representative of Skjellaaen was involved. However, it is also very necessary in Norway to provide a better basis for access to private risk capital. The chairperson of the Committee referred to the Institute sector. That is a good question, it is a difficult question – sooner or later I think the Storting must discuss it, but I am not prepared to promise anything in the very short term. It is a big, comprehensive and difficult but very important question. So one suggested that I might meet myself at the door. I don't feel it in any way. It could be tempting to run from the GDP target, because it's not just the dynamics in other countries that make us slow down, it's also the growth in our own GDP. But we haven't. Something could have been better in Norway. Something is much better than we anticipated, namely the growth of the Research Fund, as well as the tax FUNN scheme. I fought very hard for it when I was in the NHO, but I had to enter the government to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e572	That is the examination of case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e590	The work of settling refugees in the municipalities is very slow for the time being and is per year. date far away from the number expected for municipalities to receive both last year and this year. The consequence is that record numbers are waiting at reception and that municipalities are reluctant to take decisions. In fact, there have never been as many people in the refugee recipients here in the country as it was at the turn of the year. Then there were all 16 000 people in the 140 receptions we have around the country. This means that the Council of State, which is responsible, has major challenges in this area. The answer may not be to create new recipients only. Not everyone who is in receipt should be resident in the municipalities. Many are in reception pending the decision on an application for asylum or residence permit. The length of these cases is still too long, and the objectives have not been achieved in this area either. Last year, the aim was to accommodate 8,800 refugees who had received a residence permit and lived in reception. But as you know, there were only 4,902 refugees from reception. It's almost half and is very little satisfactory for all parties. Then why do the municipalities say no to settle refugees? If we look at some statements from the municipalities concerned, the answer is as follows: poor community economicunexpected family reunification security related to Husbankenpress on housing price deficient language training in asylum recipients Now it's not that it's free for the state to have refugees sitting in reception. It costs over NOK 100000 to have a person in reception for one year, and the government spends over NOK 1 billion a year for this purpose. There is therefore reason to believe that part of this money could have been better spent by giving municipalities better conditions to receive the refugees more quickly. So there wouldn't be a need for so many reception places. That would be the best solution for all parties. Last year the UDI sent out a request to 302 municipalities to receive refugees. But this is not easy for the municipalities at the moment. It turns out now that 90 municipalities have said no or postponed the case. Only 117 municipalities have answered yes. Of the largest municipalities that have said no, Fredrikstad and Mandal are. In addition, a number of municipalities in the south have said no. The Labour Party considers this to be worrying, and it is necessary that the Council of State engages in dialogue with the municipalities and the KS in order to bring the municipalities together, not against itself, as one has the impression today. This year, the goal was for municipalities to settle for 7,200 refugees. Per. On 1 January this year, the municipalities of the country had taken a decision to settle for more than 5 600 people. That's 1,600 less than what was supposed to be needed this year. When we also know that experience-based residents live in the municipalities less than the number they have decided on, then the situation doesn't look very bright. The latest figures from the UDI now show that over 2,100 of those living in reception have been granted a residence permit. So there are 2,100 people waiting to get permission to move to a municipality, start a new life, get to work and take care of yourself. But such a situation is now, many refugees have to stay in reception for a long, long time after receiving a residence permit. We know that all the research shows that the longer refugees and others who get a residence permit here in the country, the harder it is to get a good integration. Therefore, it is so important that the time in the reception will be as short as possible. Now, when we see that it takes longer, not less, there's cause for concern. Many municipalities have not become more willing to accept refugees after the government parties and the Progress Party have removed Norwegian education from the New Year for those who are waiting for their application to be dealt with. Many of these refugees will stay in Norway, and will go to the municipalities, if not for too long. It would make sense to use the waiting time to do something reasonable, for example. to learn Norwegian. At that time, it would have been easier for municipalities to continue integration after settlement – but the government parties and the Progress Party would save money. There's something called saving to find, and it's asked if there's not a good term in this case. In the budget position for this year, a majority of the municipal committee decided that all refugees should be settled within six months of their arrival in Norway, and the Committee had great hopes that this would happen. Now it turns out that the average time after decision to settle immigrants is up for nine months. This is the average time. A lot of people are sitting a lot longer, some of them this year. This is not good enough. This is pushing the problems ahead. And the cost just increases. It costs a long time in reception, and it costs more to integrate. There is no reason to believe that there will be fewer refugees to the next year and the year after. For this reason, the Council of State and its partners need to solve the problems now – and not push them in front of them. There's also another group that sits in reception for too long, and that should worry us. They're lonely minors. The number of unaccompanied minor asylum seekers coming to Norway has increased significantly in the last year. It hasn't been many years since a couple of hundred lonely minors came every year. Last year, 894 of the 17,480 asylum seekers reported being single minors. This group shall be settled as soon as possible and not later than three months after the adoption of a residence permit decision, said Stortinget. However, only 287 single minors settled in 2002. It's just a third of them that came. The measures for this year are 350 people. There is reason to ask whether the Council of State considers this to be satisfactory. How is she going to solve the situation with the growing number of single minors? She does agree that staying for a long time in reception is a very bad solution for this group? It is positive that in 2001 municipalities were willing to accept more refugees than in the past, and that, in particular, the municipalities in central districts, where the pressure on settlement is greatest, were positive. One of the reasons these municipalities were positive was the idea of a rapid, good and stable settlement under a certain form of control and good cooperation between the municipalities and the state. But then the state must also take its own measures, so that the municipalities have the opportunity to continue with this positive attitude. It hardly makes the state today. The Labour Party believes there are two major reasons why the municipalities now say no or are waiting to settle refugees and have reversed the positive attitude they had a few years ago. One is a bad community economy. The other is the frames to the House Bank and lower housing allowances. In fact, it is very difficult to obtain sufficient housing, especially in the eastern region, where housing prices are very high and refugees prefer to settle. Municipalities report that it is difficult to find housing at a reasonable price and that this is one of the main problems in integration work. Of course, housing is a completely necessary prerequisite for saying yes to receiving more refugees. Decisions to settle refugees are therefore «long-term» in many local governments at the moment. I believe this is not due to the willingness to accept immigrants, but to the fact that the economy in many municipalities is very poor, and that local politicians have major problems in prioritising these measures within too small a framework. We have to accept that. That is why I have registered an interview with the State Council of Solberg today. And I want to ask, what will the Council of State do, so that the objective of settling refugees is achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e642	I agree with the representative Eye that it is desirable to have a faster settlement of refugees and shorter waiting time in reception. However, I need to nuance her description of the situation. I don't think it provides the municipalities justice. In 2002, Norwegian municipalities settled 8 231 people who have been granted asylum or stay on a humanitarian basis or who are family reunited with these groups. 1,223 were transfer refugees from many different parts of the world, and most came directly to a municipality — without having been in reception and without knowledge in Norwegian. The family reunion consisted of 3558 people, the largest number we've ever had, which is partly due to the reduction of the UDI. 230 of the family reunions came while the residents remained in reception. Former asylum seekers who have been resident usually resided from reception and this group was made up of 3,450 persons last year. The number of residents in 2002 is the highest we have had, with the exception of the residence of the Bosnians in 1994. I want to give a well-deserved reward to the many municipalities that loyally follow up the work of resettlement of refugees, and that thus helps us to meet our international obligations in this area. 2002 was the first year of the new housing scheme, a scheme that the municipalities themselves wanted and to which the Stortinget joined in the treatment of St.meld. No 17 for 2000-2001, asylum and refugee policy in Norway. The scheme involves, to a greater extent, the municipal sector in all parts of the housing work. A national sample of representatives of both the country and the municipality sector allocates to the counties the number of refugees expected to be in need of housing in the coming years. The distribution key is based on population numbers and on the experience of the refugees and their desire to live. Within each county, the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the Local Governments’ Central Association cooperate on the number of municipalities to be requested to settle. This breakdown shall also take into account the possibility of getting into work. It is assumed that municipalities are only requested the number of places that are expected to be needed and that municipalities are not required to attach conditions to the use of the sites. During the request process, KS has meetings with municipalities in press areas to stimulate increased housing and inter-municipal cooperation and to inform about the instruments, such as: The arrangements of the home bank. The lack of a place of residence is mainly a problem for the population of municipalities in the eastern part of the country. Many of those waiting for more than six months of residence are related to this area and should be settled there. Refugees who are not allowed to live where they have family or acquaintances will sooner or later move to another municipality. One of the objectives of the new settlement scheme is precisely to avoid this form of secondary migration. However, it assumes that the municipalities of the eastern part of the country will further increase their settlement and provide places according to the distribution of the national sample for settlement to the counties. In addition, of course, places must be able to be used when UDI needs them, and without the local authorities attaching conditions to which they will reside, so that we avoid unnecessary waiting time in reception. Like the representative Eye, I have registered that more and more municipalities refuse to settle refugees. That gives cause for concern. In 2002, the need for housing was reduced over the year from 8,800 to 6,000 places. Today, the need for housing for 2003 has been estimated to be higher than 7 000 places, and we still lack more than 1000 places. If a few municipalities want a break in the housing work for a year, it is not necessarily a problem. But if many think so at the same time, a large part of the work will be pushed over to other municipalities, and then there may be dissatisfaction because someone fails to take part in the responsibility. I would like to remind you that the settlement arrangement we have established is done in cooperation with the KS and requires solidarity between the municipalities, so that everyone takes part in the load. I hope and believe that the municipalities themselves realize that saying no to housing is a poor solution, as everyone who gets to stay in Norway, sooner or later will live in a municipality. A postponement of residence means longer and more expensive accommodation, and integration work becomes more difficult and time consuming for municipalities. The fact that municipalities say no to the settlement of refugees to demonstrate their dissatisfaction with the general municipal economy is not acceptable. Although the individual municipality is currently not required to settle refugees, this voluntary nature is based on the fact that municipalities take collective responsibility to help all residents of Norway to settle in a municipality. The integration grant was greatly increased three years ago and is now at the level of the average expenditure incurred by municipalities in the construction work. There is therefore no basis for saying that the municipalities will not be able to cover the costs of housing. The House Bank prioritises applications for rental housing for refugees and did not reject applications for this purpose in 2002. This type of dwelling is otherwise only about 15 pst. of the housing stock used by municipalities for the settlement of refugees, and is only one of several ways that municipalities use to provide housing. The house bank can fully finance dwellings, but assesses the size of the grant component in relation to the price level and the housing market locally. In any case, the resources of the house bank will be limited and the municipalities cannot therefore base all residence of refugees on house-bank-funded dwellings. At the turn of the year, less than 2000 persons with a decision to stay in Norway were waiting for reception. Now it is the case that persons who are given a residence permit will continue to live in reception, either on their own or in cooperation with the UDI to find the most suitable place of residence. It will also have to take some time to make the best possible arrangements after a decision to settle a refugee. It is unreasonable to expect residence on the day on which a person is given a residence decision. Lone men are the most difficult to settle group, which must be the longest in reception pending the arrival of local authorities. The Government will propose to reintroduce maintenance requirements for applicants for family reunification with former asylum seekers who have been granted humanitarian residence but have not yet received a residence permit. Our family reunification legislation will then become more consistent with the rules of other European countries. This change could lead to fewer lone males seeking protection in Norway. The change in the rules will probably also lead to a reduction in the number of family reunited in the coming years, while encouraging residents to obtain the necessary income in order to be able to entertain the family. I would like to stress that the right to family reunification itself will continue to exist. The change involves only tightening up the maintenance requirement until the residence permit is granted. I would also like to stress that from a number of municipalities, the surprising number of family reunions have been seen as a problem in housing, which has led to the fact that at least the number of people to live in has been limited, because it has been thought that the burden would increase. Some will use the missing target achievement as evidence that the new housing scheme is not working. However, I choose to emphasise that the scheme is new and has been through an implementation phase, as well as that a relatively high arrival of family reunification in some municipalities last year made it difficult to obtain housing for everyone. In my opinion, it is too early to give any final judgment on the settlement arrangement. I believe that the municipal sector will do the task of resettlement, but will closely monitor developments beyond spring and continuously assess the need for action. I will first discuss any changes to the housing scheme with the municipality sector. I have regular contact with the Municipal Councils' Central Association and raise questions about the settlement of refugees both in the regular consultation meetings and in my own meetings when necessary. We have had more reviews of how we can achieve the goal, and of how the information of the municipalities can be better. So now it's like housing not only depends on what arrangements we have, it also depends on what political will is being exercised. That's why I think it's a social responsibility for all of us as national politicians to inform our municipal politicians that it's actually a shared responsibility and a common obligation we have in our society. So when the Labour Party representative points out that the Government has a great responsibility, I would say that the Labour Party also has a great responsibility. The Workers' Party is very responsible for ensuring that this common international commitment can be implemented in individual municipalities, by providing their politicians with local housing. I sometimes find that there is a mismatch between the signals given at national level and what is done at local level. I would like to remind you that in our budget this year we limit the number of transfer refugees, among others. because it is one of the heaviest tasks in the context of residence, both in terms of costs and in terms of pressure to the municipalities. And in order to improve the settlement of the many who are coming, it was important, in the government's opinion, that we also reduced the number of the other international commitments we had, and that we had control of, when we have such a great influx of asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e672	It is good that the Council of State says that there is cause for concern, and that we agree on it. But we do not agree on the means to get the municipalities to accept more. The council says I should give the municipalities justice, and I want to boast of the municipalities. That's not what it's all about. But we in this Chamber must also take the signals coming from the municipalities seriously. Many of the municipalities where refugees want to settle are among the most under pressure municipalities both in terms of housing, in terms of receiving more kindergarten children and more schoolchildren, and in relation to the fact that the local economy is so bad that it is going to go beyond other things. If the Council of State believes that there are some special municipalities around Norway who say no, and others who say yes, I would say that I have gone through a list of who says yes, and who says no. And that's how this applies to municipalities that are run both by the Right, by the Christian People's Party and by the Workers' Party, to mention someone, so there's no red thread through it. Governments also say that no applications were rejected in 2002 in respect of grants through the Husbanken, and that is probably correct. But I would think that the amount of the grant was significantly lower compared to previous years. The Labour Party would allocate NOK 2 billion more to the municipal sector than to the government parties and the Progress Party. We believe that it was necessary and would give many municipalities the opportunity to say yes to receiving several refugees. Now, instead of the state with the bill, many people have to stay longer in reception than they have to. The Labour Party also proposed to increase the lending framework in the House Bank by NOK 2 billion in addition to the Government's proposal, and we would increase the funding for the housing sector by SEK 200 million. kr. It would give several dwellings, several could receive housing allowances, several could receive higher housing allowances, and several municipalities would agree to accept them, and perhaps yes to receive more. Now it may be necessary to increase the appropriations for reception instead. Therefore, I believe that the Storting must listen to the signals of the municipalities as to why they do not accept refugees. If we do that, the case might solve itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e685	I agree with the representative eye that there are many different political colors on those who say no today. I very often spend my time telling the Right-Rapporteurs that this is a joint responsibility, and that they too have to join in and pull the load. I hope that the Labour Party will do the same with its rapporteurs, and that poor local economy in an area where the calculations we have in common with the KS show that there is full coverage in relation to expenditure, is not used to legitimize that they say no. I also think that the most important thing we are doing now is trying to get to measures that limit the pressure on housing. Not least when we are going to introduce the new law of introduction and new changes, it is important that municipalities, when building a better apparatus to manage integration, find ways to relieve settlement. There is some evidence that we have made stricter demands on family reunification — a not popular but necessary measure. When it comes to the question of what the municipalities get, I honestly think that the Workers' Party is now double-selling its own appropriations considerably. Thus, in relation to the housing grant, the Workers' Party's alternative budget has a clear target of rental accommodation for young people and low-deposit housing. It is not stated in the Workers' Party's alternative budget that the housing allowance increased in their budget is to be used to increase the level of payment to municipalities in relation to refugee housing or to go to several refugee housing units. And in the light of the criticism that the Workers' Party has addressed to the Government for the lack of investment in ordinary youth homes and low-income homes, and their proposal to increase the housing allowance by 112 million. NOK, I would like to remind you that SEK 112 million. kr no longer had given many apartments. If you had increased the deposit, you would have used up the 112 million in the built-up districts only on refugees. I think there are limits to how many times you can spend the same money in the political rhetoric by claiming that you could use them in several different areas. I think the Workers' Party should decide whether we should use the extra housing allowance for rental homes for young people, for low-income housing – Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen strongly criticises that we had to give priority to refugees instead of having extra money for this – or whether this was extra money that would be used to improve the settlement of refugees. I really think you should give that answer. It's not possible to spend the same money twice. It's trying to do the Workers' Party in many of the debates right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e694	I'd like to point out the ghastly rug that this interpellation has. Part of the rug is about political and human tragedies there about. 40 million people are on the run. Their lives are marked by poverty, political conflict and war, and many are subjected to torture and social degradation. Another part of the rug is the Norwegian reality. One of the world's richest countries is unable to meet very limited international commitments and political objectives to settle slightly over 8,900 refugees. Despite this brief objective, Norwegian municipalities managed to settle only at the base of 5000. In other words, refugees become residents of asylum recipients long over time and often much longer than what is proper — families with young children, persons with traumatic experiences in the country from which they flee, either because of war or because they have been tortured or have seen their closest victims being subjected to violence or killed. We know that refugees need help to deal with their traumas. One thing is that we haven't been able to set up with sufficient psychiatric help. Another thing is that these problems are further exacerbated by uncertainties about their prospects. Long stays on asylum recipients — without work, without language training — create frustration, despair and a high level of conflict, both at the reception and in relation to the outside world. Its faster refugees who come to Norway can start working, with education, with learning Norwegian, their faster they will become part of our society, contribute with their abilities and facilities and become an integral part of our society. The longer we wait, the harder it gets, the greater the chance that more people will need long-term help, both mentally and economically. For the individual, rapid help to get his new life started will be essential for his/her living condition. For society, investing in jobs, in housing, in language training and in municipalities will in the long term be worthwhile, so that the necessary support can be provided during the start-up phase of a new country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e703	The system of central agreements between UDI and KS has worked differently from the municipality to the municipality. One should remember, however, that most municipalities loyally follow state wishes and decisions, which the interpellant seems to have forgotten. This variation is primarily due to the fact that UDI expects response from municipalities on the number of refugees that can be settled as early as September. The municipalities wish to discuss the plan and budget for the coming year. It is in progress as known far into December. It would have been an advantage for the municipalities if the UDI did not follow the annual calendar, but that this might have gone from March 1 to March 1. In particular, the scepticism of municipalities is that the number of refugees with special difficulties, both in terms of trauma, health and educational levels, is increasing, and the need for more extensive municipal services is increasing. Adult education, enhanced primary education and health and social assistance are examples. In particular, when the labour market is tightened up, it becomes difficult to obtain places of action or permanent jobs for refugees and our new nationals. Now, when we get a law of rights, where Norwegian training and work training are to be combined, this imposes much greater demands on municipalities and leads to much more scepticism. Here we have a big challenge. I mean, for example. that Aetat, together with the municipalities, should undertake a vocational course with a combination of Norwegian, vocational and education, which provides training for occupations for which there is a need, such as: nurses, caregivers and caregivers. For the largest municipalities, we see that their perhaps biggest challenge is family reunification. The municipalities believe that the UDI is not good enough to make the possible size of refugees visible. One possibility is to enter into agreements with larger municipalities on e.g.: three-year contract periods. Over a three-year period, municipalities will bind to a total number of refugees from reception, including family reunifications. This will make it easier for municipalities to plan both housing and Norwegian education.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e714	The matter should not really surprise anyone. Like the Council of State, I'd like to try to nuance the debate a little bit, because if you're going to look for who's responsible for what's happening in the City Council today, I think that responsibility should be shared among several parties, including the Workers' Party. It is of course a little interesting to listen to the interpellant when she points out that this needs to be resolved by the Government in cooperation with the partners. Then I expect the interpellant to think about the Progress Party. As far as refugee, immigration and integration policies are concerned, the Workers' Party is in fact a more important partner for this government than the Progress Party has ever been. It's on responsibilities. I believe that, based on this debate, we should now look more closely at asylum immigration, and immigration in general, in the context of integration. I registered that the Council of State has not had a wish on it before, but it is clear that we should certainly do so now. It is clear that the number of people who come here and seek asylum and who are placed at reception in Norway will, of course, have an indirect consequence for people who are allowed to stay and are to be placed in the municipalities. And when UDI establishes asylum receptions around small municipalities, it will automatically lead to local authorities facing challenges only in relation to it, while integrating and settling refugees who have been accommodated. It becomes too simple – where I agree with the Council of State – to say that this has to do with the general community economy. However, when the integration grant falls away, there will automatically be a burden on each municipality in many fields, both in schools, kindergartens and social services. Then the task we now have in front of us in relation to the law on rights becomes very important – that we have a proper integration policy in place. But I can't help pointing out that it's just as important that we look at what's going on with the general immigration policy, in order for us to do this. Of course, it's about dealing with international conventions, of course we do, but there's full opening for Norway to be much more restrictive than what we've been to date. At the same time, I hear the Council of State points to tightening up family reunification. I had hoped that the Government and the Council of State would also look at the requirement of suitable owner-occupied housing in relation to family reunification, which would be another contribution in terms of tightening up that field and making it a little more convenient for the municipalities in relation to the settlement of refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e729	If the old word about the world going forward was true, we would have fewer asylum seekers and fewer who needed protection in Norway. But unfortunately, the world doesn't actually just go forward. The difference between poor and rich people in the world is getting bigger, and we are allied with a state that wants to wage preventive war – so absurd that expression as it may be – on its own. Both create refugee flows and popular migrations among people seeking a better and safer life – a life in security for themselves and their families. People are going to seek asylum, and people are going to sit in refugee camps, in the years to come, and then in Norway we have a legal and moral obligation to accept more people who need it. We in SV would actually have a stronger effort in the state budget than the government would, in order to receive more transfer refugees in the year that has passed. I fully agree with the Council of State that it is not just this government's fault that the municipalities do not accept more refugees. There is no doubt that the accumulation and mixing of criminal asylum seekers and refugees in need of help by other peoples contributes to skepticism among local politicians and contributes to the refusal of more municipalities. But there are actually three things that have changed since the KS and the Government entered into a settlement agreement. One is that Norwegian training in asylum recipients has been removed, the introduction programmes have been made mandatory for municipalities, and the finances of municipalities have been further exacerbated, among other things. The Labour Party representative Signe Øye also addressed this issue in relation to the Husbanken framework. I want to say something about this with the removal of Norwegian training, because I think it is terribly important. It is clear that for those people who stayed in Norway and who have been in reception, 43 weeks have passed on average before they were granted their application. It's almost ten months, and it's too long. Research shows that the motivation decreases the longer you sit in reception, but not least it is too long to sit without learning Norwegian. The municipal minister and I were together at a conference in Bergen and discussed these things. One of the receivers in Bergen said that this was a disaster, because it was noticed that people had a much more difficult everyday life. It's no wonder that the municipalities are skeptical, because if people know bad Norwegian, it's harder for them to get into work. In addition, the role of Aetat in the introduction programmes and the economy in it is unclear. Norwegians need to be able to participate fully in the introduction programmes, also in order to get unskilled jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e742	There is a broad consensus that long-term stay in reception is the worst case situation for asylum seekers as well as for society as a whole. It prevents successful integration, it reduces the opportunities to learn Norwegian quickly, and it also reduces the chances of getting work and thus being able to do it on its own without the help of society as quickly as possible. It's true, as the Council of State says, that too long stay in reception is not a new situation. It is a problem with which most of the municipal ministers have struggled, including those who signed it. I think we should be so honest that we take a shared responsibility and realize that this is not a new situation. In my time, we had a huge influx of refugees and asylum seekers, not least because of the Kosovo conflict, who put the apparatus on very large tests in order to cope with settlement. But at the same time, the integration grant was increased for the first time in many years, so here are many who have a history of not doing the job that should be done. However, the fact that the situation is not new does not, of course, make the need for action any less, on the contrary. The municipalities are the crumbling point of the settlement work, and there are many municipalities that are making a commendable effort. The fact that, in today's situation, municipalities are more reserved in relation to housing is not so difficult to understand. First, the local economy is tighter than ever. Many municipalities do not even have the power to maintain statutory duties. They work every day with cuts in the statutory tasks for their own residents and therefore hesitant to undertake new tasks. In addition, unemployment is increasing. This also reduces the potential for successful integration, which also means that residents should have a job as quickly as possible. So when, on a government proposal, the large number of people have reduced the period for unemployment benefits, more have been pushed to the social offices at the top of the whole, and thus also increased the costs of municipalities in this area. Many municipalities are rightly afraid to end up with increased social expenditure. When, in his first post, the Municipal Councillor, more than suggested, with the address of the Workers' Party, that the parties contribute centrally to the fact that the municipalities do not actively reside as a demonstration against the municipal economy, the Municipal Councillor goes too far. It was not possible to perceive the municipal minister in any other way. We have a common responsibility, and it is a responsibility with which the Government also has the highest degree of responsibility. It will be too easy just to send the ball over to the municipalities, also in this case. It is necessary that the Government assume its responsibilities in relation to the local economy, in relation to continuing to increase the integration grant, not least in relation to increasing access to suitable dwellings and ultimately in relation to the removal of Norwegian education in reception. This was an extremely important measure to make it easier for municipalities to settle as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e753	It is worrying when you get signals from a number of municipalities that indicate that there is less willingness to settle for refugees now than before. It's a relationship that should worry us all. I am recording that 90 municipalities have said no or have postponed matters, as the interpellant pointed out in his first post. Therefore, there is a need for the State Council and its Department to think thoroughly about what causes it, and what can be done in interaction with the Municipal Councils' Central Associations to stimulate municipalities to increase their interest in receiving refugees. The regrettable fact is that many people stay in reception for a longer time after receiving a residence permit, with the problems that may result. I naturally agree with the facts that the interpellant has pointed out as important reasons for what is now happening. Of course, the fact that the local government sector has such a difficult financial situation helps to make it more difficult for municipalities to take on the kind of tasks that we are talking about here. The second is that grip like, for example, The government’s proposals for changes and tightening up language training have also not exactly stimulated increased willingness in municipalities to accept refugees. And last, but not least, the interpellant has pointed to the lack of framework in the House Bank and the importance it has to be able to accommodate refugees. I register that the Council of State suggests that the Workers' Party spends twice. That's not right. Firstly, the Labour Party has therefore proposed NOK 2 billion more in the lending framework to the House Bank. It would make it possible to build more dwellings, which are also important for refugees because of the impact it has on the general housing market. The second is that the Workers' Party has proposed significantly increased appropriations for housing grants. There is room for building several youth rental homes without any special problems, but of course there is also room for building more for refugees because the overall framework available is larger, and there are therefore also opportunities to improve the overall provision of housing. So I noticed that the representative Sandberg pointed out that this is the government parties and the Workers' Party that make up the cooperation partners, and not the Progress Party and the government parties. I think the representative must take on board here, as in other areas, that the Progress Party has entered into a budgetary settlement with the government parties which involves such a tight financial framework that it makes the activities of the municipalities difficult in this area as well. A budgetary settlement has been made that has implications for language training. A budgetary settlement has been made with the housing financing framework. The Labour Party has had other assessments in all these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e767	The worst contribution to making the settlement work better than today has been made by the Government by removing Norwegian education. SV believes that the best contribution that we can make is an introduction programme scheme that is funded so that we know that we succeed with it. What is important is to get municipalities to establish integration and settlement work as a permanent task. This is not a ship's per capita task that you can do at times. Therefore, we think that the recordings that Peter Gitmark made during the debate now, about a three-year agreement with the UDI, and that looking at the conclusion of the agreement period, were positive contributions. It can also work in the direction of getting a more long-term job with it. I want to point out a few points. One is psychiatry, which has been mentioned here. There is no doubt that this is a serious problem, it is in the Norwegian population as well. You have to get a better system to make sure that those who really have major mental problems are both given health care and taken care of in a way that doesn't put them at risk to themselves and others. When we dealt with the defrosting, Stortinget decided that a social security scheme should be established for asylum seekers and refugees who do not have earnings in the public interest. There are a lot of municipalities that point out that this is a problem, and this is a call for the Government to come with this scheme as soon as possible. This concerns the long-term social clients feared by municipalities. It would also help if a system had been put in place in which the reception of lone minor asylum seekers was established with a standard such as child protection institutions, and a reinforced foster home system for these asylum seekers was in place. There are also these we know that it is difficult to live, and that suffer the greatest damage from being in reception for a long time and having an unexplained situation. This would make a significant contribution. So the Council of State says that it is not acceptable that municipalities do not fulfil their settlement obligations. We agree with that. I have heard in the past that the Council of State has said that if you do not get to this settlement system, you have to find other measures. The council also said you should look at this beyond spring. Then I think the Council of State has to say what kind of measures she can then put in. Does that mean that she can imagine a free settlement system? Does that mean that she can imagine a system in which the municipalities are to be forced to accept a certain number? What are the measures envisaged by the Council of State to put in place a housing scheme where fewer people remain in reception for a long time, particularly after a positive decision has been taken? I don't think anyone is interested that it will continue as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e780	Finally, a few points: one of the issues raised by the representative Karin Andersen was that refugees who live in this country for short periods of time are not covered by the old age pension scheme. This is an irritating moment that the municipalities are still considering. This means that these people become dependent on social assistance as long as they live and become a burden to municipalities. I know there's been a long time working on this in the department. Now we should get a solution to this, so that we get this case out of the world. What surprises me is what the State Secretary of the Ministry of Local Affairs said to the Municipal Report on 13 February this year, that the reason the municipalities do not accept more refugees is that there has become a less positive attitude after 11 September 2001. I think the statement was quite remarkable, and at least it's not the same signals that we get from the municipalities when we talk to them. Therefore, I hope the Council of State can deny that the problem lies there. Then the representative Sandberg has once again been up on this pulpit and left off his responsibility in relation to the problem we have now debated. It is not reasonable to say that it does not matter what the local economy is like, nor is it reasonable to say that cuts in Norwegian training have not meant anything in relation to the goodwill or the willingness of the municipalities to accept new refugees. So it's actually more than 250 lonely minors waiting to move to a municipality today. And UDI's Regional Office East went out with an invitation to the municipalities to make an extra effort to settle some of these children. There were some municipalities that said yes, but all the municipalities, among other things. on Romerike said no. There is every reason to take it seriously, and I could imagine that the Council of State said something about how she thinks you can take this. Otherwise, I can't see that the Council of State has given any special signals about any political action that will improve the situation in the future, and that's why there's every reason we have to follow up on this. Now the Council of State says that one should evaluate this beyond spring, and it would be desirable if she now from this pulpit came up with some signals about how she thinks this should be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e793	I am glad that we all agree that it is important to get to the settlement. However, I would like to remind you that since 1994, the municipalities have never done as much work as they did in 2002, and 2003 also seems to be a very good year. So, there are many people who say yes, and I think it's very important that you also focus on all of the municipalities that actually contribute and make an effort in the housing work. Britt Hildeng said we can't meet our international obligations. We must be aware that in the international context of Europe, we are among those who have the shortest time to deal with asylum matters. We have also chosen a model in Norway where local democracy determines whether we can meet the housing goals or not. Denmark has forced residence, so you decide how many municipalities each have to accept, and you have to accept them. Sweden has 50 pst. of its residences on direct housing, i.e. that persons move to a municipality during the asylum period and are allowed to stay, they become there and participate in an integration work. The model in other countries is that they are moving more quickly, but at a cost in relation to the local democracy that we have not wanted to take in Norway – as was recently stated in the debate in spring 2001. I don't want to speculate in alternative methods of housing. I have been asked at a conference about the alternative coercive settlement, and I have said that then direct settlement can be equally correct. But there are hypothetical debates. I have said in my reply to the interpellant that I believe we should have the settlement system as adopted, and as it is now built up, and let the apparatus now made work for a period of time to see if it works. And so far, even if we don't reach our goals, we've achieved quite a lot. The representative of Gitmark was concerned with several measures, which can of course contribute to more stability in the scheme – that quality development can be looked at over several years by having more firm agreements. Not least, this is going to be important in relation to minors. We are working here with a completely new housing concept, where having a partner among individual municipalities that can and will give us longer contracts can be one important model. So to Sandberg, I just want to say that it's not new that we want to ease the pressure by looking at asylum policy. In fact, one of the main reasons why we removed the 15-month rule was that there were a number of people who were allowed to stay in Norway only because of length of proceedings — it was built up under the previous government — who did not need protection. So those who didn't need it got settled. I think that gives less credibility to the entire refugee policy, but it is also a burden in relation to the municipalities. There are many other things I could choose to comment on. I just want to say one thing. Thus, it is not the case that lower housing rates are due to the removal of Norwegian training. There's no indication. It is still the case that when you come out after you have lived, you have received Norwegian training. It is the transfer refugees who do not have Norwegian training at all when living in the municipalities. I think it's a little obvious that the working party just cut half, but it sounds like they didn't cut anything. So they added up to a very complicated system. And finally, to the Workers' Party, you have to give 60 pst. Coverage, which, as I understood it, was important in some densely built strips, gives the budget of 112 million. kr more as they had in the budget, 200 more dwellings, and then there's nothing left for youth and rental homes. That's a double message you're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e808	That is the examination of case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-04.ana.ud2342e819	There is no record.
