ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-02.ana.ud1566e177	In accordance with the Constitution, the King gives this message to the Norwegian State and Government in the run-up to the last message. This year, too, the government has taken an active part in the international fight against international terrorism and in preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction. As part of the broad international coalition against terrorism, Norway has made use of both political, economic, legal and military instruments. The high-level conference, recently held in New York, to which Norway took the initiative, showed that one also addresses the underlying causes of terrorism. The government has given high priority to development cooperation in line with the action plan on combating poverty in the south. The government has actively worked internationally to achieve the UN's Millennium Goals. In 2003, assistance was set at 0.93 pst. of expected gross national income. In January, the government presented a strategy for investing in education and training in the assistance. Aid for health and HIV/AIDS has continued at a high level. Work is under way to clarify how Norwegian policies in different areas affect poor countries. One has gone through the administration of Norwegian development aid with a view to modernising and improving efficiency. The government has pursued an active European policy to protect Norwegian interests in an enlarged EU and the EEA. One has been agreed with the EU on the conditions for extending the EEA to the new EU Member States. Norway will continue and increase the financial contribution to ensure that differences in welfare in an enlarged EEA are mitigated. The European Policy Platform for the Government has been followed up in order to improve information and contribute to a wide-ranging debate on EU and EEA issues at home. The UN Summit on Resilient Development in Johannesburg focuses on the link between poor environment and global poverty. In 2003, the government gave a high priority to the follow-up to the summit, both in the context of development cooperation and in international negotiations on the environment and sustainable development. One result of this effort is that Norway has received the Presidency of the United Nations Commission on Sustainable Development. Through work on National Agenda 21, the Government has banned the Norwegian follow-up. In March, the government issued a big message on Norway's participation in the UN Security Council, including: it has been outlined how it will lead to further priorities from the work of the Council. In 2002, the Security Council, behind Resolution 1441, reaffirmed and strengthened the UN's long-standing and binding demands against Iraq. Since the collapse of the follow-up to the resolution and a coalition led by the United States occupied Iraq, the Government has worked to give the United Nations a central role in international aid and the political process towards a democratically elected government in the country. In 2003, Norway provided extensive humanitarian assistance to Iraq, including: for mine clearance, better water supply measures and support for a life-cycle study under the auspices of the United Nations Development Programme. The Norwegian engineering company, which is linked to the British-led division of the stabilisation force, has made an important humanitarian effort in the field of mine clearance and unharmed undetonated explosive. The government has provided extensive humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan and, at the same time, increases the support to the transitional government and the assistance to the longer-term reconstruction. Norway's military contributions in the form of fighter aircraft and special forces have been particularly linked to the military operations in the fight against the terrorist networks in that country. Norway has also increased its contribution to the ISAF Multinational Security Force. The economic policy of the Government is based on guidelines for a defensive phase-in phase of oil revenues in the economy. At the same time, policies shall contribute to a stable development of production and employment. In line with this, the Government presented in May a revised budget. The management of the Storting did not lead to significant deviations from the government’s submissions for the use of oil revenues in 2003. Noregs Bank's interest rate, inflation, is per year. 18 September 2003 at 2.5 p.m. It's 4.5 percentage points lower than at the same time last year. Since December last year, interest has been reduced seven times. The lower interest rate has contributed to the fact that the krone price has been weakened monthly since the turn of the year. Measured with the competitive price index, the price in the first part of September was 8.9 pst. weaker than last year's September. The relatively weak growth of the Norwegian economy in recent years has led to a decline in the labour market. It has given lower employment, especially in competitive industries. Seasonally corrected, 4.0 pst was recorded. unemployed at the end of August. Participation in employment in Norway is among the highest in the world. Last year was 73.5 pst. of all Northmen between 16 and 74 years of age at work or seeking employment. However, there was a decline in participation in the labour force during the first half of this year compared to the same period last year. A central part of the government’s economic policy is to reduce the level of taxation. In 2002 and 2003, tax reliefs totaling $19.4 billion were adopted. The real growth in income in the municipal sector in 2003 was estimated at about 2 pst in the revised national budget, or about 4 billion kronor. In the 2004 municipal proposal, the Government is promoting a number of measures to strengthen local democracy and increase local freedom of action. The local self-government shall be strengthened by the decentralisation of tasks, decision-making powers and responsibilities, the inclusion of ear-marked contributions in the framework contribution and the simplification of legislation and reporting requirements. This kind of spread of power makes citizens more likely to take part in decisions. The size has joined the submission of the Government to introduce an innovative and innovative business. It is agreed that a new unit for innovation and internationalisation will be created based on the tools of today’s SND, the Norwegian Export Council, the Norwegian Tourist Council and the State Inventors’ Guidance Office. The government has created Møjsalen National Park and extended Femundsmarka, Stabbursdalen, Obere Pasvik and Børgefjell National Parks. 18 new landscaping areas and 180 new nature reserves have been created. No previous product in one year takes more Norwegian nature. Through the management of the State Supervision Notice, Stortinget ceased to take the decision in the Government to move eight state supervision units from Oslo. The government stressed that localisation decisions should have a holistic and balanced profile, while building on the special environment of competence and other strengths that characterise individual regional centres. The size has dealt with the public health policy issue, which was presented in January. This message will create new strategies for the next 10 years. The government has put forward a proposal for a new law on food production and food security to abolish the 13 laws you have today. The government has continued its work on the organisation of the public food administration. In the autumn of 2002, the government presented an action plan against poverty. The 2003 action includes, inter alia: labour-right measures for long-term recipients of social assistance and immigrants, strengthening follow-up services for homeless people and targeting improvements in social welfare schemes. With effect from 1 July, self-employed persons have been entitled to maternity benefits under the corresponding conditions as employees. In April, the government presented a child care funding report and an odelstningsproposition on child care changes. The management of these has led to a broad agreement on childcare policy. The settlement shall ensure the childcare space of all and reduced parental pay. In 2002, new kindergartens were established for 5,600 children. There are twice as many new places as in the previous year. New law on free-standing schools is attached. Law comes in place of proper private school law and opens up to the recognition of a greater number of primary schools than before. The government has taken the initiative in reforming the threat training, to which the majority of the population has joined. The government emphasises that the UN is a cornerstone of Norwegian foreign policy and that the organisation has the main global role in the work on peace, security and development. In order to meet the challenges of cross-border crime, the government actively participates in the parts of EU judicial and police cooperation to which the Schengen agreements allow. The government has worked to establish a strategic partnership between the EU and NATO and good participation rights vis-à-vis the EU for non-EU allied countries. In March, the EU took over NATO operations in Macedonia. This is the first EU military operation using NATO resources, and Norway participates in the operation. The Government has also pursued an active European policy through the Council of Europe and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe [[OSSE]] The government has taken an active part in adapting NATO to meet the new security threats. It is done both by strengthening the military capability of the alliance and by reshaping the military command structure. Norway has also supported the extension of the alliance and has helped the invited countries to prepare for membership. It has done its part to strengthen the important transatlantic link. The Allied Joint Warfare Centre, which has been added to Jåtta in Stavanger, is responsible for developing doctrines and operational concepts, planning, training and exercise within the alliance. [[JWC]] The government has actively worked to fill the new NATO-Russia Cooperation Forum with concrete content. The government took the initiative to set up its own civil protection working group and has worked to ensure that the NATO-Russia Council also cooperates on nuclear security in the north. President Putin's official visit to Norway in November provided a good basis for further developing broad cooperation with Russia. The marking of the 10th anniversary of the creation of the Barents region in January marked the emphasis both Norway and Russia place on regional cooperation in the north. After several years of negotiations, in May, under a framework agreement, which opens up wide international cooperation to solve nuclear and environmental problems in the north. Defence cooperation with Russia has also developed positively in the last year. A comprehensive joint declaration that outlines cooperation within a range of fields is signed. The government continued its work on stability and development in the Balkans and stepped up its efforts to further integrate the countries of the region into Euro-Atlantic cooperation. Governments have also increased efforts in Moldova, the Caucasus and Central Asia. Norway has taken an active part in the new round of negotiations in the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, with the aim of strengthening the international trading system and ensuring fairer international trading conditions. Norway has continued its active efforts for peace and conflict resolution in Africa, where Africa's Horn has been a particularly central area of action. In cooperation with other countries The United States and the United Kingdom have actively participated in the peace process in Sudan. Norway has continued the commitment to facilitate the peace process in Sri Lanka. Norway has protested against the Burmese military regime following the arrest of opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi and the closure of the offices of the opposition. The government has adopted a regulation on specific measures against Burma. In addition, the UN is supporting the use of humanitarian aid as a platform for possible future dialogue between the parties. The government has continued its commitment to peace in the Middle East and has given special attention to helping to put in place the Roadmap for Peace, reform of the Palestinian Self-Government Authority and assistance to the Palestinians. The International Criminal Court is now fully operational following the election of judges and principals in the spring of 2003. During the period, the government has worked actively to promote Norway's reputation abroad. Targeted information, profiling and cultural cooperation have proved effective in this work. The government issued a big message in March on globalisation. The message deals with issues that are important to Norway and to the world community. The Cartagena Protocol on genetically modified organisms has now been ratified by 50 countries and entered into force on 11 September 2003. [[GMO]] At the last meeting of the Parties to the UNFCCC, Norway was driving a more ambitious climate regime and for other developed countries to ratify the Kyoto Protocol on greenhouse gas emissions. In 2003, the government stepped up its efforts to stop the emission of Tc-99 from Sellafield. On the British side, it is now decided to introduce a stoppage for nine months. The government played an active role in the preparation and implementation of the United Nations Environment for Europe Conference in Kiev in May. The Ministry of Environment has started to establish an all-year base in Antarctica. The base, which will be completed in 2005, will strengthen Norway’s role in Antarctica cooperation. By the end of 2002, the value of the State Petroleum Fund was 609 billion kroner. The market value of the fund has increased by DKK 166 billion to the end of the second quarter of 2003. Of this increase, $66 billion is transferred to the fund. Norway’s gross national income in 2002 was $1,525 billion. It's a real drop of 0.7 pst. from 2001. The value added in mainland Norway, measured by gross domestic product at fixed prices, increased by 1.3 pst. last year, according to preliminary national accounting figures. Value creation is increasing in primary industries, construction and in services industries, while in industry there was a decline. There was a slightly weaker trend in total GDP than in mainland GDP in 2002 due to weak developments in oil and foreign shipping. The consumer price index increased by 1.3 pst. in 2002. The price increase was 2.3 pst. corrected for taxes and non-energy. After the first eight months of this year, the increase in consumer prices was 3.0 pst. compared with the same period last year, while the increase corrected for taxes and non-energy was 1.3 pst. The operating balance vis-à-vis the rest of the world showed a surplus of $97.9 billion in the first half of this year, about $9 billion lower than in the same period last year. Norway's net claims on the rest of the world increased by approximately NOK 148 billion in the first half of this year and are estimated at NOK 925 billion. In 2002, net oil, gas and wet gas production in Norway amounted to 258,7 million. Sm3 oil equivalents [[oe]] The value of oil and gas exports in 2002 was just over 280 000 million. kr. It's a little lower than in 2001. The net cash flow to the State from the petroleum industry was last year of 169 000 million. kr. In 2002, the average oil price was USD 25 per barrel. In addition to OPEC's supply regulation, the war in Iraq and the oil industry in Venezuela have contributed to higher prices in recent years. The Oil Directorate presented updated estimates for our undiscovered petroleum resources in June 2003. The potential that can be realised through enhanced extraction has also been re-examined. The total resource that can be extracted is now estimated to be 12.8 billion Sm3s, a downward adjustment of about 1 billion Sm3s. In the 2002 North Sea allocations, eleven blocks were allocated to ten companies. In order to simplify and increase the efficiency of allocations, a fixed, predefined, search area was introduced. The scheme replaces the annual North Sea allocations. The impact of all-year petroleum activity in the northern sea areas of the Lofoten and northwards has been transmitted on a listening ring. On 1 January 2003, new rules on the principle of access to gas pipelines and tariff fixing applied. At the same time, the majority of the Norwegian gas transport system was concentrated in a common ownership structure, Gasled. Electricity supply in 2002 was characterised by relatively high demand for electricity in Norway and Sweden in the first six months and very little demand in the second six months. This led to low prices of electricity on the Nordic market until the autumn of 2002. Then the prices rose sharply in a short time. The high-priced period lasted until the end of January 2003, but also the rest of winter and spring 2003 electricity prices were well above the normal level in recent years. In view of the difficult situation in the power market, the Regeringen launches exceptional measures in the winter of 2002/2003. Total electricity production was 130.6 TWh in 2002. Gross electricity consumption was 120.9 TWh. In the last year, a concession has been granted for hydroelectric power projects with an average production of about 0.8 TWh. Sauda is the largest of the projects, with a production of about 0.5 TWh. Furthermore, the funds made available by Enova have triggered around 0.9 TWh of renewable heat production, energy saving and wind power generation. In 2003, the defence has further led to a very comprehensive and demanding process of conversion. The conversion process is in progress. The Chief of Defense and his strategic functions were integrated into the Ministry of Defence from 1 August. [[FO]] The Defence Command was dropped from the same date, while the Defence Staff was created in support of the Chief of Defence in his role as Chief of Staff. [[FST]] New national operational command structure was established on 1 January 2003, with the Armed Forces Operational Headquarters in Stavanger and two District Commands, one in Trondheim and one on Reitan outside Bodø. [[FOHK]] The Government has decided to conclude a contract for the purchase of the Sea Defense Shield Class missile torpedo boats. Finnish border guards have increased their monitoring capacity in 2003. In November, the Parliamentary Committee was appointed. The selection has a mandate to go through thoroughly how the country organises and manages ownership. In June 2002 the annual report on State ownership was presented. In July, the State sold 270 million shares in Telenor at a share price of NOK 29.50. 20 million of the axans were purchased by private people in Norway. After the sale, the country owned 62,6 pst. by Telenor axes. In October, the Government presented the Action Plan A simpler Norway: simplifying and facilitating business life, with strategy and 122 concrete actions. The plan was later praised by the OECD. In June, the new organisation Standard Norway was formally established. The organisation combines Norway's Standards Association, Norwegian General Standardisation, Norwegian Building Standards Council and Norwegian Technology Centre. The maritime transport industry employs about 26 000 people and the turnover of about NOK 109 billion. Of these, foreign shipping is worth NOK 101 billion and 17 000. The number of ships in the Norwegian merchant fleet was reduced by about 2 pst. for the period 2001 to 2002. Furthermore, it found a small increase in the number of ships registered in the Norwegian International Ship Register. The number of ships registered in the Norwegian Ordinary Register of Ships was reduced by 4 pst. during the period. Calculated in tonnage is the decrease of 10 pst. from 2001 to 2002. The government will be actively following up on eNorreg in 2005. two state reports on the development of the information society. In February, the Government presented a strategy for ICT in the public sector. In September, the government issued a big news release on broadband. The message focuses on the importance of broadband for business and the public sector. The government has presented a national strategy for information security. The aim is to increase confidence in electronic services and to be better equipped to meet small and large attacks on Norwegian IT systems. The government, in cooperation with the daily food industry, has worked on measures to make supply systems more robust, with particular emphasis on North Norway. The government has been working on the modernisation of the State War Insurance System, in order to continue to be able to secure goods during transport in crisis situations. The bill was presented to the Stortinget in June. In June, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade presented a report entitled ‘The EU Lisbon Strategy — What Does Norway?’, which sets out the relevance of the strategy for Norway and the work of the Government in the areas covered by the strategy. The Road Service of the State has been reorganised with effect from 1 January 2003. The reorganisation leads to a clear distinction between management tasks and production activities and greater efficiency in the performance of tasks. The production business is separated into a company owned by Mesta AS. The management part is organised in five regions, located at Lillehammer, Arendal, Leikanger, Molde and Bodø. From 1 January 2003, the air carrier was transferred to Avinor AS, a limited liability company, with a view to providing the company with a clearer financial responsibility and greater freedom of action. Air traffic measured in the number of passengers arriving and travelling over Norwegian Airports showed a decrease of 2.8 pst in 2002. Compared to 2001. Domestic traffic fell by 4.9 pst. Traffic to and from abroad went up by 5.5 pst. In the first half of 2003, air traffic has shown an increasing trend. In order to improve the safety of helicopter transport on the continental shelf, a wide-ranging Helicopter Safety Cooperation Forum was set up under the auspices of the Air Safety Authority. The ownership of Flytoget AS was transferred from NSB AS to the Ministry of Transport from 1 January 2003. In 2003, the development of a closed mobile telephone system, GSMR, on the Nordlandsbahn, has been given the opportunity to ensure communication on the Bodø – Rognan route. In 2002, 12,395 people were injured and 310 killed as a result of 8,724 road traffic accidents. There are 35 more deaths than in 2001. But the number of deaths per person. The first half of 2003 is lower than the average over the last ten years. Preliminary figures show that two people died in railway and metro accidents in 2002 and two people died in aviation accidents. In the long-term work on road safety, the government takes the view that accidents will not be fatal or life-long. In order to increase road safety, this includes: introduced a mandatory driver training course from 1 July. It is also decided to impose a dot tax on the driver card. For 2002–03, there is a strong focus on racial protection. Measures along the road and rail networks have been implemented to reduce noise pollution. Local and regional roadside air pollution has also been reduced as a result of less use of peak tyres and renewal of the vehicle fleet. A group of experts has been set up in the spring of 2003 to advise on how Norway can best contribute to the study of hydrogen and zero-emission technologies in the transport sector. In June, the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Oil and Energy set down a national hydrogen selection to set targets and measures in a major national hydrogen programme. The government has actively followed up on the biggest public transport message. Freer right of establishment for express bus routes has been introduced for the whole country. There are changes in postal laws adopted in the spring of 2003 with effect from 1 July. These changes apply gradually to the narrowing of the single area of law to Item Norge AS, without any date being set at which the postal market should be fully liberalised. Competition in the telecommunications market is increasing, but is still not satisfactory. In June, Stortinget passed a new law on electronic communications, which replaces the telecommunications law. The new law came into force in July. The government has announced auctions for the two free 3G mobile concessions. An agricultural agreement has been negotiated between the State, Norway's Bondelag and Norwegian Bonde and Small Farmers teams within the framework of income policy cooperation. The government submitted a proposal for an agreement, to which the Storting agreed. The report on animal husbandry and animal welfare was handled by the Stortinget in June. The majority of the government's proposals came to an end. In May, the government presented an odelstningsproposition with proposals for a new law on the concession for the purchase of immovable property. In the bill, a number of others do. suggest raising the area limit by the current law to 100 deches when no more than 20 of these covers are full-grown land. Fishing regulations are simplified, including: by increasing the use of aggregate quotas. This makes it more clear what the regulation is all about, and makes it easier for fishermen to focus more on quality than on quantity. Work on improving the operating conditions of the fishing fleet has continued to improve the profitability of the vessel and provide a basis for renewal. The unit quota scheme has been introduced for almost all groups within the sea fishing fleet. The size has addressed the impact of structural measures on coastal fishing fleets. In order to help rebuild the cod stock in the North Sea, strict regulations are in place for those who are allowed to participate in the fishing for cod in the North Sea and how it is to be operated. Following agreements concluded with Russia, the EU, the Faeroe Islands and Iceland, Norway has increased its share of the total quota of Norwegian spring-gowning herring. As part of the work on escape insurance measures in the farming industry, in August 2003 the technical standard requirements for installations and equipment used in the breeding establishment were laid down. The government has reinforced efforts in the development of cod farming in addition, and significant progress has been made this year in the field of stable large-scale production of cod and cephalopods in farming. The decline in the export value of fish and fish products continued in 2002. In 2002, the export value amounted to DKK 28.7 billion, which is a decrease of DKK 1.9 billion compared to the previous year. The maritime resource selection was reduced in the spring of 2003. The selection shall review thoroughly the saltwater fishing law of 1983 and assess how the scope of the law can be extended to include the management of marine organisms in general. The Marine Protection Plan Advisory Committee delivered its opinion in February this year. In August 2003, the new ocean exploration vessel ‘G.O. Sars’ in the ordinary course of business. More coral reefs in our oceans are now protected by law to prevent these structures, which are very important ecologically, from being destroyed. Earlier this year, the largest of these deep-sea coral reefs was protected. The Government has assembled the organisational responsibility for oil protection in the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Agency. The government is actively working to strengthen coastal security. An offer round has been launched for the lodgers of two emergency vessels to be placed in Finnmark. There is a meeting with the Russian Ministry of Transport to further develop bilateral cooperation in the field of maritime safety and oil security. On the basis of the treatment of the proposal on additional promises and reclassifications in the 2003 state budget, it is decided to build a traffic centre for North Norway in Vardø. The size has joined the submission of the Government to extend the territorial limit from 4 to 12 nautical miles, and a proposal for required sailing paths has been sent to the audience. In January this year, the government presented the first Norwegian civil radio navigation plan to do well for the status and plans for the development and use of radio navigation in transport and other social sectors. In the negotiations between the State and Norway’s Fiskarlag in the autumn of 2002 on the means of support for fisheries, two contracting parties agreed on an economic framework of 70 million. kr. The 2003 wage settlement was an intermediate settlement. In the statement between LO-NHO and YS-NHO, there was no need to provide general central supplements, but some low-wage groups were added. Supplements were also not provided in the data provided by the State and the regions of the Municipal Councils (Central Association of Municipalities). In the discussions on pension regulation, the government, the Norwegian Pensioners' Association, the Organisation for the disabled and the Landsorganisation of Norway did not find any information on the regulation of the basic amount of the population’s population as of 1 May 2003, and the basic amount was determined by the Stortinget. New agreements have been concluded from 1 July 2003 on basic allowances, operating grants and tariffs for privately operated lizards, physiotherapists and psychologists. The Government’s action plan for strengthening competition policy continued in 2003. In June, the government issued a big message on the study of the conditions under which the North Sea pioneer divers worked. The message suggests that pioneer divers, who did groundbreaking work in the North Sea from 1965 to 1990, will receive the upliftment and economic compensation they receive. At the same time as the Storing Message was provided, action was immediately taken against former North Sea divers. Aetat has been strengthened and the effectiveness of labour market policies is better through changes in the legislation on day-to-day pay, attempts at new forms of funding and increased use of competition between private operators. As part of the follow-up to the Sandman Committee, the Stortinget adopted in April from the Government on changes in the field of labour law. As a result of the EU Directive on the Prohibition of Discrimination in Employment on the basis of ethnicity, age, sexual orientation, disability, etc. Proposals for changes to the labour protection laws were submitted in June 2003. The government has followed up the intention agreement on a more inclusive working life between the social partners and the government. Nearly half of the active in Norway are now working in enterprises that have signed up to the agreements. In December last year, a public selection presented a report on how the VAT legislation could be amended to make decisions in municipalities on self-production and external purchases of services neutral. An expert selection presented in February a statement on how the tax and tax system should be designed. The selection emphasises that the tax system should be based on non-discrimination, broad-based and low rates. Another expert selection has assessed the impact on the country’s revenues of changing the charges on goods placed on the border. According to the Government’s proposals, the size has established new rules on ownership control in financial institutions. The amendment will repeal the rules on ownership restrictions we currently have and replace them with a discretion-based system based on the EEA Banking and Insurance Directives. On a proposal from the Government, the Storting has adopted the law on changes in central bank law and the law on financing operations and on repealing the exchange regulation law and the money and credit regulation law. The legislative act includes, inter alia: changes in the rules and practices of the appointment of members of the Governing Council and of the Board of Representatives of Norway Bank, and the introduction of a principle of public interest decisions of the Governing Council. The practice of bringing forward proposals to members of the Governing Council will not be continued. Following proposals from the Government, the government has adopted a new law on measures against the laundering of proceeds from criminal offences, etc. The proposal will implement the Second EU Money Laundering Directive and International FATF recommendations, an international cooperation forum on money laundering and terrorist financing. The government has implemented several measures to prevent and find assistance against organised and economic crime. Through an own project, initiatives are taken both for national measures and for international engagement where Norway can participate with increased efforts to address, among others. corruption and money-laundering crime. The government has imposed a new penalty on corruption and the Stortinget has decided. The government has continued its work on the accelerated criminal proceedings project. The size has agreed to accept the EU Directive on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions as part of the EEA Agreement. The proposal from the Government for implementing legislation is for Storting Management. The government has reduced a selection to improve legal protection against discrimination against people with disabilities. A new national data crime centre has been created to help solve data-related crime. In June, the government issued a big message on police receipts in case of visits and other controls. In order to ensure more rational transport of asylum seekers, a project has been set up to address and facilitate a new national registration and enforcement unit with a view to taking over the country-wide responsibility of the police now. The Commission for the resumption of criminal proceedings was set up on 1 September 2003. The Election Victim Compensation Office was established on 1 September 2003 in Vardø, with 14 new jobs. The majority has joined in the submission of the Government to make the dispute settlement system a State regime from 1 January 2004. The court administration was created on 1 November 2002 in Trondheim. In connection with the creation, a total of 65 years' work is transferred from Oslo to Trondheim. The government has presented a three-year action plan against trafficking in women and children. The Government’s ‘Wald against Women’ action plan will end in 2003 by drawing up a new action plan for the coming years. Law of fictitious identity, such as, among others, the protection of women exposed to violence shall be attached. National guidelines for the protection of witnesses have been developed, including informants and victims of violence. There is also a Nordic police cooperation for the protection of witnesses. In 2003, a comprehensive process of conversion was continued, based on the policing communication on police reform. More than 1,200 job vacancies have been redispatched in conjunction with the merger of several police districts and the development work carried out by the police as a whole. Over 400 annual works are released for redistribution to the public and operational services. The government has started work on testing new ways of working to relieve ordinary police officers for administrative tasks. With effect from 1 January 2003, the pro-mille programme will be based on a nationwide survey. This can be judged by courts as an alternative to prison sentences for people who admit that they have an alcohol problem. With effect from 1 September, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness is established. The new Directorate will be deleted from the current Directorate of Civil Protection and the Directorate of Fire and Safety. It is settled that the directorate should be located in Tønsberg. A number of changes have been made to the foreign laws and regulations in order to improve control of the instigation of asylum seekers, to reduce the number of groundless asylum seekers and to strengthen the fight against crime. The proposal from the Government to the law on the introduction of new immigrants was adopted by the Stortinget in June. The aim of the laws is to make it easier for new immigrants to participate in professional and social life. The aptitude centre for the dishes of indigenous people was formally opened on 1 September of this year. In line with the government's objective of spreading power and strengthening local democracy, about 4/5 of the funds for regional and district policy are decentralised to the county municipalities from 2003. The reform strengthens the county council as a regional development actor. The government has created a district commission to go through the entire Norwegian regional and district policy. The government has significantly simplified and streamlined the construction process. Time-limits and rules on the simplification of the processing of many construction products have been introduced and provision has been made for electronic construction shaft processing. Changes in the planning and building laws have been implemented which make savings for society by speeding up the planning process and going as expected. Time limits have been introduced for the treatment of private regulatory proposals in municipalities. In February this year, the European Parliament adopted a new law on the right to environmental information from the Government. The size of the population has managed the flood forecast of the clean and rich seas and joined the main lines of the government's submission on a new and more holistic marine environment policy. The government has submitted an application to UNESCO for the nomination of the unique cultural landscape of the Vega Island on the Helgeland coast as a World Heritage Site under the UNESCO Convention for the Protection of Cultural and Natural Heritage in the World. This is the first UNESCO nomination in almost 20 years. A cross-sectoral programme for the monitoring and monitoring of biological deficiencies is under way. In the National Environmental Policy Communication to the Government and the State of the Environment in the Reich, the Government proposed, among others: a strategy for increasing forest protection, such as: shall ensure high professional quality in the protection work while reducing conflicts. Norway carried out a broad marking of the 2002 UN International ‘The Year of the Mountains’. The government presented a separate case in the revised national budget for improving the sustainable use of mountain areas for tourist purposes. The size has addressed the proposition of establishing national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords. 37 national salmon rivers and 21 salmon fjords have been created and the basis for the future management of these salmon populations has been established. The government has provided a big message on family policy, including: are proposed measures to strengthen committed life and parenthood. In June, the Government presented to the Storting a proposal to amend the rules of the Company Law on the composition of the board of all publicly owned companies and public limited liability companies, with a minimum of 40 pst. representation of both sexes. For private companies, it is proposed that the legal framework should only be implemented if one does not reach the desired gender representation on a voluntary basis by 1 July 2005. In April, the government presented a plan of measures to reduce the commercial pressure on children and young people and to raise awareness of children and parents in order to improve their ability to meet the advertising and purchasing pressure to which children are exposed. The size of the population has managed the child-care and youth counselling messages, among others. agree with the proposal that the State should assume the responsibilities of child protection and the protection of the family to which the county has been subject from 1 January 2004. The government has started to follow up the decision. The government has prioritised the fight against coerciveness and gender mutilation based on the documents ‘Renewal of efforts against coerciveness in the spring of 2002’ and ‘Government’s efforts against gender mutilation in 2002. The government has developed new and simplified legislation on voluntary contributions to children’s and young people’s organisations. Norway’s third report on the follow-up to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child was sent to the UN in April 2003. In connection with the decision to incorporate the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, changes were made to the child protection laws and the adoption laws governing the right of children to be heard. Similar changes were adopted in children’s Elva. The government has put forward an odelstingsproposition with the draft new law on the medical use of biotechnology, as a follow-up to the management of the Stortinge law evaluation. The government has reduced a selection to assess the regulation of medical research involving human and human biological material. The majority has adopted a new law on alternative treatment, which provides for legal regulation of this field. At the same time, action is being taken to increase cooperation and integration between the established health service and alternative practitioners. The Roadmap for Mental Health 1999–2006 and the National Cancer Plan 1999–2003 are followed up. The government has made a proposal with proposals for new financing responsibility for sick transport. The aim is to stimulate treatment near the patient’s dwelling when it benefits the patient. The government has put forward proposals to strengthen the legal rights of patients, including: with regard to free choice of hospitals and individual deadlines for treatment. It is increasingly shorter waiting times and fewer waiting times at hospitals. In the spring of 2003, the government presented a major communication on the policy for people with disabilities. The notification refers to strategies and measures to contribute to the reduction of disability barriers. Over several years, the action plan for the care of the elderly has contributed to increased staffing and to a greater expansion of municipal care provision in modern hospitals and new care facilities. The government has submitted a separate message to Stortinget with a number of measures to contribute to better quality, greater choice and simpler schemes. The government has agreed with the Local Governments’ Central Association on quality development in the care and care services. The majority has joined in the submission by the Government of amendments to the Tobacco Injury Protection Act. The laws introduce a ban on smoking in all service locations from 1 June 2004. The government is following up the action plan on drug problems. The government has put forward proposals for the reform of the drug addict’s intervention apparatus for the Storting. In March, a legislative selection was set up to deal with and propose simplifications and better harmonisation of municipal health and social legislation. The government has submitted a recruitment plan for health and social workers in 2003–2006. The plan focuses on stabilising the human resources situation in the municipal health and social services. In December 2002, the government presented a major communication on the coordination of the Aetat, social security and social services, with proposals for an organisational reform aimed at increasing employment and activity and reducing social security and a user-right and effective welfare management. The size of the message handled in May 2003 and asked the Government to further elaborate different models for a single establishment. The selection, which has looked at different aspects of quality in initial training, delivered its results in the summer of 2003. It is agreed to transfer the negotiating responsibility for pay and working conditions for teachers and school leaders from the State to the municipalities and county councils with effect from 1 May 2004. By assuming the negotiating responsibility, the municipalities and county councils that owners will have better opportunities to manage and develop the school, even when it comes to quality. Primary school law has been given new legislation on the physical and psychosocial school environment to students. Changes have been made to the Training Act to increase locally the scope of action in primary education, including: in the case of classification rules and competence requirements for the addition of Vice-Chancellors. The system of demonstration and bonus schools has been strongly expanded in 2003. New in 2003 is that funds have been allocated to ten demonstration enterprises between educational establishments. In the event of a change in the training law, adults have the right to assess their real competence for work, so-called professional testing. Law changes must be seen as part of the establishment of a national system of documentation and valuation of real competences. The government has continued its work in the Forum on Competence and Working Life as a meeting place for the Governing Boards, the social partners and educational institutions. There is a new law on vocational education. It establishes a system for the public recognition of short vocational education and training which is needed in the labour market. Public schools are regulated by a new law. The new legislation means a marked transfer of responsibility to school owners and individual schools. From the 2003–04 school year, a new student support scheme for young elephants is in place in the ordinary course of further training. The new scheme is more targeted by the fact that elephants from families with a weak economy will increase the grant payment. The quality reform of higher education has been fully implemented in the autumn of 2003. Within the framework of the quality reform and in the light of increasing internationalisation, a government-designated selection has presented a joint bill for higher education. In order to contribute to the escalation of Norwegian research efforts, the capital of the 2003 Research and Innovation Fund increased by DKK 4.8 billion to DKK 31.8 billion. The Government has been committed to strengthening international research cooperation through the establishment of the EU Framework Programme for Research and Technology, which is the most extensive research cooperation Norway participates in. Furthermore, a research and technology cooperation agreement with Japan was signed in May. The first Abel Prize in Mathematics was awarded in June 2003. A fund has been created for the distribution of a new Nordic prize for research in social sciences and humanities, the Ludvig Holberg Memorial Fund. The Norwegian Church has a stable membership of about 86 pst. of the population, and there is a high resolution of the ecclesiastical actions. The government has named a wide-ranging selection to deal with the state-church relationship in order to provide the basis for decision-making on the continuation, reformation or abrogation of the state-church regime. Construction work on the construction of a new opera house in Bjørvika, Oslo, was started in February 2003. The Storting has joined in the submission of the Government to provide funds for a new theatre building in Tromsø for the Hålogaland Theatre. The National Museum of Art, which includes the National Gallery, the Museum of Contemporary Art, the Museum of Art in Oslo and the Norwegian Architectural Museum, was established as a foundation on 1 July 2003. A new National Museum Unit for Art, Crafts, Design and Architecture is hereby established. AMB Development – The State Centre for Archives, Libraries and Museums – was created on 1 January 2003. This new coordination and development body replaces the State Library Authority, the Riksbibliotektenesta and the Norwegian Museum Development and is also responsible for tasks in the archive field. A big message has been presented that gives the perspective for the common cultural policy over the next ten years. A concession has been granted to operate commercial radio broadcasts with a clear general broadcasting profile in the fourth national network of the FM band of Kanal4 AS and in the fifth national network, requiring a clear new and cultural profile, to P4 Radio Hele Norway ASA. A big message has been submitted about the concession to operate new digital television ground nets, which will be able to replace the analogue ground transmitters transmitted by NRK, TV 2 and local TV today. Following suggestions from the Government, Stortinget has made changes to the rules for lottery and gambling with a view to clearing up the vending machines market. For 2003, funds have been distributed from the surplus in Norwegian Typing AS for cultural purposes of 150 million. NOK 1050 million for sport purposes. kr. Of the distribution for sporting purposes, it's set of 572 million. SEK to sports facilities, 314 million. SEK 105 million for the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic Committee. SEK for direct contributions to work for children and young people in local and associations and SEK 58 million. kr for other sport purposes. The Antidoping Norway Foundation was established in June 2003 to ensure the independence of control and prosecution activities in doping cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-02.ana.ud1566e605	received on behalf of Stortinget the documents read and stated: Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness, good colleagues! It's 148. Storting, which your Majesty has opened up today, goes to his responsible work at a time when global cooperation and close allies have been put to the test. The international community now needs to demonstrate its capacity for action and cooperation so that we can limit the adverse effects and ensure greater stability in the world's conflict areas. A strong and effective UN is a prerequisite for success. There is broad political agreement that Norway should continue to have strong international involvement and actively work to strengthen the central role of the United Nations, as expressed in the Common Era. Our home political environment is still marked by the shock of the tragic killing of Sweden's foreign minister Anna Lindh. When a held and respected politician in our neighboring country becomes the victim of a brutal act of violence, it creates a sense of insecurity here too. In our democratic system, politicians at all levels have both wanted and had the opportunity to live a normal life in contact with most people. We need to maintain and protect this openness that means so much both for those who are actively involved in politics and for people's ability to come into contact with their elected representatives. Nevertheless, we should take inwards that this can be challenging, and each one must take it into account in the performance of his active role as a politician. As in previous years, budget management will also dominate the work of the Stortinget. Despite disagreement on policy objectives and resources, the representatives of the Grand Duchy share a common desire to create the best possible future for the country. I am confident that everyone – both in the Great Britain and in the Government – will contribute to the smooth implementation of the process and in mutual respect across the political dividing lines. Focusing on finding common solutions is embedded in the Storting system. It is a prerequisite for a democratic system of governance that it is possible to bring together a majority of decisions. This may not always come out equally well in a media world where a political stance that can be presented in the form of an ingress seems to be the demand of time. As big politicians, we all – regardless of the arena – have a responsibility to convey a fullest possible picture of political reality, which is complex and complex, but which is also marked by a willingness to arrive at compromises where necessary. We have just set behind us a municipal election where the trend towards ever lower turnout is reinforced. For any reason, this is a very worrying development. A representative public-elected assembly requires broad participation from the population. Various measures have been tried to increase interest in policy processes both here in the United Kingdom and at local level. This work must continue, and we must be open to considering both our own forms of work and structural changes in order to increase political interest and participation. I don't think this challenge is best met only with technical changes to the electoral law. It's the People's Government that's being challenged. Together with matters that are already being dealt with in the Storting, the nobility of the throne offers that many issues of great importance to the country will be dealt with in this magnificence. The issues are broken down into different sectors which are at the heart of a welfare society, and relate, inter alia, to: cultural policy, environmental protection, quality and provision of education and housing policy. The paper on freedom of expression will address one of our fundamental human rights. In addition, the size is to deal with a number of legislative proposals such as: includes new law on law and the management of basic and natural resources in Finnland, a law that in many ways will be a symbol of our ability to fulfil our international obligations in relation to indigenous peoples and minorities. In the hope that the representatives will do their utmost to solve the many and large tasks ahead of us, we gather in the old desire: God preserve the King and the homeland! The other members of the Storting replaced this desire, and all those present then sang the first verse of the federal song, «Yes, we love». His Majesty the King, Her Majesty the Queen, and His Royal Highness The Crown Prince then left the staging room, accompanied by the deputation that had worked at the reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-02.ana.ud1566e628	The President will propose that the speech of His Majesty the King and the report on the state and government of the kingdom be discussed at a later meeting – and consider it adopted.
