ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e34	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e39	I suggest Heidi Grande Røys.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e44	Heidi Grande Røys has been proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Grande Røys is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. Councillor Victor D. Norman exceeded 1 kg. proposition [[see Unit]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e49	The representative, Karin S. Woldseth, will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e52	On behalf of Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself, I would like to propose amendments to the Law on Criminal Registration on 11 June 1971 No. 52 – extended use of a certificate of good conduct in relation to persons responsible for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e57	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e71	I just want to refer to the President-in-Office's detailed statement on this matter in the Stortinges meeting, and what the Stortinge decided just a few minutes ago. The Odelsting shall now confer on this Examination Commission the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice, in order to hear them, etc. which is necessary to clarify the matter as thoroughly as possible, not to say that it is necessary to clarify the Mehamn case. That is why the Presidency has proposed the necessary legal paragraphs in the case, and I recommend the presidency's position on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e78	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 356]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e94	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 15 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e103	In this legislative proposal, the government proposes to remove the maximum overtime limit per year. week and per week four weeks. Furthermore, the annual overtime framework will increase from 200 to 400 hours, or in practice well over 500 hours, in agreement with the individual employee. A limit of 48 hours per week is allowed. a week may be averaged over a period of four months and six months under certain conditions, with the possibility of extending that period to a maximum of one year. At the same time, the Free Contracting Law executes its tasks of assessing the exemption for overtime use, and the companies can agree with their trustees that the working day may be up to 16 hours. This is something far more than a simplification that helps to increase flexibility. In addition, there is a proposal to weaken the law and to negotiate collective agreements. Both work supervision, protection and trust leaders are put on the sideline in these questions. It is the government party – Right, Christian People’s Party and Left – that makes up the plurality together with the Progress Party in this matter. It is such that overtime is not a free will for all. Now the ratios are being made to make it easier for employers to require more overtime for employees than before. My claim is that today's law is flexible enough and the limits of overtime are high enough to meet business interests. I also understand that companies need to let people work overtime to avoid peaks and bottlenecks in production and in labour. But it should and should be a balance between overtime and ordinary work. The Labour Party believes that this level of balance is in today's legislation. Furthermore, the current legislation provides for a guarantee of the health of workers. There is every reason to believe that many business leaders would think it would be easier to impose overtime than to impose more people, either in permanent or in temporary settings. Fear that this could be a permanent state will create a major social problem. Furthermore, this is also unsolvable at a time of almost 100,000 unemployed. We should be aware that today's use of overtime corresponds to about 65000 annual works, according to the Statistical Central Bureau. Nor can I understand that more overtime is the answer to a development in which the number of long-term and unemployable people increases because of the many experiences that increase pressure and increase stress in the workplace. Furthermore, there is solid and comprehensive occupational medical research that demonstrates the link between long working days and health problems and disease. The Labour Inspectorate, which is our most important professional body in this area, has calculated that the new proposal means that some employees will be able to work 16 hours for up to 16 weeks, only interrupted by six Sundays free. It is obvious that such overtime use causes them to increase health risks. Nor do I ignore that if the companies make maximum use of the flexibility of the new legislation, it would also be contrary to Section 12 of the Act. This is a dramatic shift in Norwegian working life and should make the majority think about it again. There is every reason to believe that many people will be pressured to work more overtime. And for trade unionism and the Labour Inspectorate, controlling overtime use in practice will be impossible. The government and the social partners have signed the agreement on an inclusive working life. The aim is for enterprises to facilitate job creation so that more disadvantaged and more disabled people can return to work. Another goal is to bring down the sick leave. Then it is bad that the majority of the population now adopts a change in law that according to the Labour Inspectorate and the employees’ organisations will increase the pressure by making people work more overtime. In addition, I would like to remind you that there is a selectivity in developing proposals for a new law for working life to replace the current work environment law. Both the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party believe that the amendment of the law intervenes in the mandate of this election. Therefore, these parties believe that it is disrespectful to the selection to deal with such extensive proposals for changes to the labour law without having first been assessed in the labour law committee. What's the urgency, and where does the whole thing go? Is this to be the direction of the Government for the work to be done in revising the whole of the Work Environment Act? My claim is that the majority of people don't deal with the problems associated with social exclusion. The majority do not see that this has become so extensive that it has become a social problem. The response to the Government and the majority of the population is not to counter the brutalisation, but rather to a severe weakening of working time in the work environment law. Many of us like to work a lot. There are many employees who love their job and enjoy it. Overtime is also popular, because it is paid better than the ordinary hours. But it is also important to be aware that many people underestimate the danger of working a lot of overtime. In other words, many people are unable to set these limits themselves. There may be a lot of reasons for that. For example, people may not dare say no to overtime fear of the future – of the job. I'm going to think that most people know people who have met the wall, people who are exhausted by a lot of work and are so worn out in the body that the depression gets strong and has a good hold, people who lose their social network and are in a difficult family situation because of long working days. I know many – many who have spent many months getting on their legs again, but also many who have been marked by this for the rest of their lives. It does not mean that the person is a weak party. It also does not imply that the state and trade unions should be role models. Many are able to work hard and under pressure, at least for a shorter period of their professional life. No, this is about taking care of their fellow people, taking care of today's workers in a society where many employers don't care about this – even if the laws are ready in this area. It's our job to take care of the workers in a society where most things are about efficiency, time pressure, market forces, returns, understaffing, crowns and ears. It is our job to protect them against predatory activity, weighing health and weighing safety. Today's decision will bring the majority of population back more steps in time, and society will be the big loser. My claim will be that more people will be evicted by the work force, and more people will be disenchanted. This has nothing to do with modernisation. This is in many ways historyless. So a little bit about job protection for top managers. The government also suggests that top managers with pay agreements should be excluded from job protection. The government's suggestion that this would reduce the use of pay agreements is justified by the government. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have doubts as to whether this is the solution to this problem, but these parties are prepared to discuss measures that could limit the use of pay agreements. In the worst case, the government's proposal may lead to an increase in pre-agreed pay contracts, both in scale and size. I believe that this question belongs at home in the work of the Labour Law Committee. Against this background, these parties will now reject the submission and request that the Government also forward this matter to the selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e143	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e146	The unemployment rate has increases. She is still among the lowest in Europe, but 100 000 without jobs are worrying. Then it can't be negative that the Government simplifys and opens up for more flexibility. That's what's happening in this case, and it's important for all businesses and for everyone who wants to keep their jobs. But we don't weaken our workers' rights – absolutely not. Can the representative of the Labour Party, who is the spokesman for the case, confirm to the Norwegian people that, in this case, we do not increase the maximum amount of overtime, that workers' rights are not impaired, and that statutory sleep time is the same as before? So there's a lot of creative math that's going on and on. We heard this: 16 hours for 16 days at work. But the nappy time is still in 11 hours, and I want to remind you that the day hasn't yet gotten 27 hours. We have to stick to the traditional 24. This is wrong and should be withdrawn again by the case spokesman. Then the representative Sigvald Uppøen Hansen is concerned that overtime can become “a permanent state”. There are extra costs of overtime use, and it is unlikely that businesses will choose the most expensive solutions. It's my faith in that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e155	When it comes to developments in the labour market today, we see that unemployment only goes in one direction – the arrow goes straight up. In a very short time now, the number of unemployed has increased quite dramatically, and so should the representative Anita Apelthun Sæle. The government's proposal means that those who are at work are given the opportunity to work more. As I pointed out in my main post, there will probably be fewer newly added workers in the companies, fewer will be added in the temporary settings to get rid of peaks. It is true that there are no proposals to increase the maximum use-overtime framework. Not in the law, but in practice it will be, because it is easy for one not to count overtime until one has passed 40 hours of work week. In other words, one can actually work overtime on an individual basis in excess of 500 hours, a little depending on the number of hours worked by the collective agreement. But what is the change is that both the trustees and the Labour Inspectorate – and the Labour Inspectorate is the foremost professional body we have in this country to assess the use of overtime – are pushed all the way aside. It is not that there is so much need to dispensate from today's law. In fact, only half a percent of all operations in Norway benefit from the right to apply for an exemption. It's not a big challenge and a big problem for today's business.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e162	I must say that the post from the representative Upbeøen Hansen was both pathetic and a formidable exaggeration of the realities of this matter. I haven't heard the husband ever listen to crisis maximisation, I think. Here, the Workers' Party conducts very old symbol policies, symbol policies which unfortunately have expired. What's really wrong with overtime work being agreed upon with the individual employee? Some people will work a lot overtime, others will work less overtime, and some will not work overtime at all. That's how we know it is. Such individual wishes may have different backgrounds, so the employer is required by this law to take into account whether an employee will work little or much overtime. Does the Workers' Party really mean – and that is what they write in the suspension – that by individual agreements the employee is the weak party? Is it the case that Uppebøen Hansen and the Workers' Party view the Norwegian worker as a weak person who is unable to take care of himself and his own interests in the labour market? I want to ask you what kind of stigmatisation this is. We do not live in 1929 and the times of depression, but in 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e169	It was not surprising to get such a line from the representative of the Progress Party. This is no exaggeration, this is no crisis maximisation. But at least the Labour Party has the ability to listen to the highest professional competence we have in this country, and I am thinking of the Labour Inspectorate, the Labour Research Institute and not least of all those involved, for example. employees' organisations, which have joined forces against the Government's proposals. It is not new that it is not interesting for the Progress Party to listen to those instances. I have not said that the employees are the weak party, but the employees may become the weak party. It is not easy to act as an individual when you are in a situation where the employer asks you to work overtime, where the employer can almost ask you to work overtime when you may be in a situation where fear of the future and fear of your job. It's not that easy. Rather, we need the opposite of what the Progress Party and the Storing Majority are into. We need a more inclusive working life and a work life right for everyone. It is simply a good labour market policy. It's good family policy, it's good health policy, and it's good social policy. The solutions for the Progress Party, which they want to introduce to the Norwegian community, are, in my opinion, old-fashioned solutions that we had 50 and 100 years ago. It's the Workers' Party against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e180	It is a strange angle the Labour Party has on this matter. In fact, there are only very simple changes that happen, which will clearly make conditions for both businesses and workers easier and more flexible. It will strengthen businesses, make them more competitive, and that is what can mean more jobs. If we continue to regulate the companies in lower areas, we lose jobs, and then we see that we cannot compete when the stoppages come in, or when there is a need to do the small extra that is needed to keep the delivery deadlines. My question to the Workers' Party is therefore: Is not the view that the Workers' Party's Sigvald Uppøen Hansen advocates, really just a suspicion of the employees? Is it so certain that it is always the company and the trade union that know best what fits the individual? What is wrong with moving more of the responsibility to the employee himself?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e187	I actually believe in the individual. I believe that most people are able to assess their own situation, including in the workplace. But I've mentioned it before: there are certain dangers associated with being lured into overtime, being lured into greater incomes, which might be suitable for a person who is relatively young, who is not in a family situation, who does not depend on having a social network around him. I thought in many ways that the angle that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV have in this case is in a very close proximity strange. Then it is more strange that the Right and the representative Hogsnes doubt the strong and critical comments that the Labour Inspectorate has made on this matter. If the representative Hogsnes had read all the documents that came from the Labour Inspectorate, with the critical comments they have on this matter, and which are not reflected in the proposition, I think the representative Hogsnes might have had a different assessment of it. This is not about controlling the companies in the sink. Well 800 companies applied for exemptions from the overtime rules last year, and we have well over 20,000 companies. That's approximately equal to that. 0.5 pst. Is it therefore necessary for Norwegian industry to expand the overtime frame in addition to the tightness we have today? Is it so important for Norwegian business to survive? I'm just asking the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e194	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e198	The level of noise and the strong resistance of the Labour Party to the changes in overtime rules removes the main challenge of our time: a viable business life and the fight to preserve jobs. The most important thing in today’s Norway is to secure jobs and maintain and strengthen the competitive business. Therefore, business needs to have both good framework conditions and better conditions that enable businesses to cope with competition in an increasingly tougher market. The government has put up a tight budget. We already see that it gives results in terms of lower interest rates and lower interest rates. This benefits business and thus helps to secure vulnerable jobs. But this isn't enough. In a number of areas, business has for many years called for simpler laws and regulations. So also in relation to the Working Environment Act, where, in particular, the rules on overtime have been too flexible. To date, companies have not had the armshake needed to compete for jobs that lead to stoppages. In particular, small businesses need more flexibility and more space for action. If, for a limited period of time, employees can have the opportunity to take an additional roof, within a sound framework, it will be easier for a small company to compete for a job. Today, businesses are struggling, and for the right, it is important to make these changes as quickly as possible. That is why we wholeheartedly support the Government's proposal. It is most surprising that the opposition so easily overlooks the fact that new contracts guarantee a business and secure jobs. Small changes have been proposed. It is not allowed to work more overtime – neither per person. day or per day. years. Only overtime limits for one week and four consecutive weeks are proposed. Instead, it is proposed that the general rule that working time, including overtime, should not exceed 48 hours on average per year. week, measured over four months. This new system will be much more responsive to the real needs of business and working life. Now it is legal for the employee and the employer in special situations to agree whether it is necessary to work extra for a period of time. The employee shall be able to determine, not as far as the trustees or the Labour Inspectorate are concerned. In the Right, we have faith that the social partners will use this opportunity to use overtime in a reasonable way. Moreover, it is in line with the long-term desire of industry to have simplified legislation when the employer is now able to enter into an agreement with each employee on extended overtime. Enterprises save time to fill out forms and follow up paperwork, while Labour Inspectorate may concentrate on overtime supervision and response to illegal use rather than having to use resources to process applications for overtime extension — applications that have almost always been granted in any case. It's strange to hear what critical voices claim. It's just as strange to see what some people have done in the media. Not only have some of the manufactures been faulty, many have completely disregarded significant points, such as the conditions for overtime and the general provision of Section 12 of the Working Environment Act. The employer has the same responsibility as before. Section 12 states that employers’ obligations to ensure that the performance of their work and working time arrangements is arranged in such a way that employees are not subjected to any adverse physical or mental stress. The conditions for overtime are also the same as before. They are still regulated by Section 49 of the Working Environment Act, which limits the use of overtime to, among others. unforeseen events, necessity and unexpected work pressure. This is the keyword. Furthermore, the employer is obliged to exempt the employee from overtime work when he requests it for health reasons, important social reasons or other personal reasons. The new legislative proposal will make working life more flexible. The rules are softened without the general framework being diluted. However, the daily and annual limit of overtime is maintained as before. Similarly, the rules on daily and weekly leisure time are maintained. This ensures that working time does not become irresponsiblely long. Again: We do nothing with the responsibility of the employer. It'll still be the same, and that's the most important thing. I regret that the opposition, with the Workers' Party at the head, is not able to see the opportunities that this amendment provides for the social partners, nor is it positive in providing a competitive and hard-pressed labour market with better opportunities for growth and development. I take up the proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e221	Kari Lise Holmberg has taken up the suggestion she referred to. The time for this morning's meeting has come, but the President will make the change of line before the end of the meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e226	The government says it wants to cooperate with the trade union movement on an inclusive working life, on reducing sick leave, on moderate pay, but still comes up with proposals that the trade union movement is against, as we see today. Just before Christmas, Ivar Kristiansen from the Right and Olaf Güdrem from the Christian People's Party went far in announcing that there will be new cuts in the health pay system. It's no secret that both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party want to cut the sick pay system. Little do we hear from the same parties about constructive remedies to reduce sick leave. In its opinion on the proposal we are examining, the Labour Inspectorate says: «If the activities make maximum use of the flexibility of the new provisions, research indicates that working time arrangements will be harmful to health and therefore illegal.» The tracks increased sick leave as a result of the new overtime law. Then I have three questions for the representative. Is there any evidence here to support the consequences for sick leave other than that provided by the Labour Inspectorate? Does the Right believe that the new overtime rules will make it easier to reduce sick leave? And finally, is it no longer an objective to reduce sick leave in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e242	If there's something that concerns the Right, it's the high level of sick leave. It's too high, and that's exactly why we're trying to get it down. And that is why the agreement between the social partners is concluded. As long as we have that agreement, we will follow that agreement, and it will not be broken. But an agreement and the outcome of an agreement depend on two parties, and here the trade unions have an extremely important job to do. The questioner is a part of health and research. In terms of health effects, research is totally inconsistent. Research results are not unique, either nationally or internationally, and the extent to which working hours have an impact on health is at stake. In terms of health aspects, we know that there is a long, much more than working time that causes sick leave or poor mental health. In this context, private life, other working conditions at work and the environment have an impact. A number of reasons need to be considered in relation to assessing the cause of possible poor health. The angle that we have in relation to being able to negotiate, to agree on a working time, could initially mean opportunities that provide constructive solutions. It gives employees greater opportunities to join and discuss their own work situation. So here we see the possibilities instead, as the Workers' Party is far too doing, taking «worst case».
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e251	There is a need to make changes to legislation that is not adapted to the time we live in and that represents a development that we advocate. On the other hand, it is not right to organise flexibility that leads to unfortunate developments. The government has submitted a big public health report, and prints out four prescriptions. For me, there is consistency between the ideas behind the prescriptions of a healthier Norway and the field of action ‘including working life’, but it is impossible to find agreement between the Government’s words and action. Proposals for changes to the Labour Protection and Working Environment Act are such an example. It will not be easier for individuals to maintain their health in a working life that opens up increased overtime work and makes the private decision about the organisation and length of working time. This inevitably leads to a higher threshold for making knowledge-based decisions. I have to ask the representative Holmberg if it is such that she would have gone against this proposal if there had been such research-based knowledge available today, and perhaps why she will not wait until it is available. That the government finds it right to seek alliances in public health work is wise. This case is an example of how little employee organisations are valued as allies by the Government. And this is not the only current example of poor match between words and actions. The SV agree that greater emphasis needs to be placed on prevention and respond to initiatives that provide more knowledge. We don't have to act like we're ignorant for that reason. The changes proposed in the Labour Protection and Working Environment Act are indisputably suitable for weakening both the protection and the environment. Section 12 of the Working Environment Act states that work should be undertaken in a way that does not expose workers to unfortunate physical or mental distress. The fact that the Government and the Government seem to find it appropriate to increase the level of conflict in the labour market, and channelling conflicts to a tried-and-tested judiciary rather than using prevention strategies in accordance with the idea of a prescription for public health, is incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e264	I can in many ways agree with SV on the need to have knowledge, to always accept knowledge and to always discuss knowledge based on reality and research based on what it has found out. But I said in my post that when it comes to health in relation to this matter, there are no clear research results. And when we add it to the situation we have in today's business, where businesses are struggling more than before, where unemployment is increasing, then it shows that we need a government that can be effective and that can take action. Everyone wants less unemployment. Everyone wants more jobs. It's unusually important for the individual to be able to work. This will be a necessary measure in this situation. I also underlined the employer's responsibility in my post. The employer's responsibility is exactly the same, and the Working Environment Act § 12 and § 49 regulate the rights of an employee. So we have good, safe frames around the individual employee. The ability to work more flexibly in the bulwarks, in good times, is the only difference in relation to the legislation we have, and what we are now going to get. And it can't be irresponsible. I am completely incomprehensible to the strong resistance as, among other things, The working party shows up. It'll almost be like hearing the trade unions talk.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e271	It is sad to note that a former trade union man now suddenly has so much faith in what the trade union says, as Kari Lise Holmberg here said. I would like to assume that the centre party would like to have an open attitude to business improvements, to regulatory simplifications in general. But when it comes to the proposal that is now made by the Government, it is actually that, for example. The Labour Inspectorate says that they cannot see that this proposal involves simplification. They say it seems that there can be more complexity and less clarity for both employees and employers. They also show, as Holmberg here was inside, that those who are today applying for exemptions are largely granted. So why does this proposal promote at this point in time? On our side, we focus on the preventive effect of today’s legislation, as well as the preventive effect it has on the Labour Inspectorate and the trust authority. This allows for dialogue and guidance in relation to alternative solutions rather than pushing single-workers even more than they already are. My question to Kari Lise Holmberg will be: Why such haste? Why not expect the Labour Law Selection and a more holistic review? In fact, one could also contribute to the fact that in 2003 there were several of the 100,000 unemployed who were able to share the work that is, both some of those who are completely unemployed, and those in part-time who want a larger fraction.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e282	A good thing cannot be said too often: the most important thing in today's situation is to give companies the opportunity to participate in increasingly tough competition, to maintain jobs, and to create new jobs. I shake the head of the questioner saying that I must have little faith in the trade unions. I have been a trade union leader for several years. I have a very long experience, so I think I know what I'm talking about when it comes to trade unions. In this case, according to the Evening Post, the manager of Stavanger Jern and Metall perceive that the Government will also change the overtime provisions of the Working Environment Act, as an intervention in pay and working conditions. That's where it is! And of course, the trade unions say that. It's absolutely legitimate, and that's the way it should be. They shall fight for members' pay and working conditions. We politicians must respect that, but we should not be bound by it. We're going to think completely, have an overall perspective, before we make final decisions. It gets too slim when you can't raise your eyes beyond the trade union interests. The time has to do with the economic situation of Norway. What we're struggling with, what we need to stimulate are the companies that need to get better relationships. The small businesses and the larger businesses must then be given greater arms. And we have confidence that the parties, the employer and the employee, can make sensible arrangements together. For the framework that protects, there is still.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower.ana.ud1803e291	The cord shift is over. We will end this morning's meeting, and a new meeting will be held at 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
