ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e26	The representatives of Vidar Bjørnstad, Julie Christiansen, Morten Højlund and Ivar Østberg, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Akershu County, Harald Espelund, has taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: by Anne Helen Rui and the meeting alternate Per Steinar Osmundnes on leave on 26 and 27 May, both in order to attend the 6th Interparliamentary Conference on Drugs in Stockholm from the Delegation of the Storting to the spring session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Praha, an application has been submitted, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Jan Tore Sanner. On Monday, 26 May, the application concerns the authorisation of the representative of Ranveig Frøiland and, from 26 May to 28 May, of the representatives of Kjetil Bjørklund, Per Roar Bredvold, Gunnar Halvorsen, Trond Helleland, Thorbjørn Jagland, Jon Lilletun and Per Ove Wide from the representative of Haakon Blankenborg on leave from 26 May to 28 May to attend meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in Moldova from the representative of Olav Akselsen on maternity leave from 26 May to 20 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For East-Agder counties: Liv Marit Moland For West-Agder counties: Sigmund Kroslid For Buskerud counties: Martin Kolberg and John-Ragnar Aarset For Hedmark counties: Johnny Hult For Hordaland counties: Rita Tveiden and Pål Bererfjord For Uppland counties: Reidun Gravdahl and Tove Teaching For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Liv Skaheim For Vestfold counties: Vidar Andersen and Dag Terje Andersen3. Johnny Hult, Tove Lehre, Vidar Andersen and Dag Terje Andersen are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for the representatives Per Roar Bredvold, Kjetil Bjørklund, Per Ove Width and Anne Helen Rui respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e146	The representative of Marit Arnstad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e149	I will be allowed to make a proposal that a seafaring trader is entitled to care allowance in the event of a child's illness.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e154	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e168	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e177	I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their commitment to the important area of society in terms of fire and safety. But the suggestions, as I see it, are in many ways a repetition of what the Storting just a little while ago dealt with in connection with St.meld. No 41 for 2000-2001. The SV's proposals include: the acquisition of more fire trucks and the recruitment of more firefighters in order to increase the level of preparedness of the individual municipalities around the country. At the same time, the proposers want a comprehensive review of the legislation and regulations on fire safety, which is in many ways in line with what the Stortinget has already dealt with earlier in connection with St.meld. No 41, which the Department and the Directorate are constantly following. It is a well-known fact for the Committee that Norway is very high on all fire statistics internationally. It burns more in Norway than it does in most other countries, unfortunately, it gets a good say. We have worked for a long time to do something about this, but without having completely succeeded so far. But, of course, all relevant authorities must continue this important work with unreduced strength. In the case of increased fire protection and dimensioning of the fire service, it shall be carried out in accordance with the specified requirements of the Fire Service Regulation on the organisation and dimensioning of the fire service. According to this regulation, both the population and agglomerations in the municipality are crucial factors for the dimensioning of the preparedness level. At the same time, the local authorities' own risk analyses shall be given priority in this context. And in order to assist and guide municipalities in the preparation of proper vulnerability and risk analyses, the Directorate for Fire and Electricity has an important advisory and professional function. However, although we significantly increased the level of preparedness beyond the minimum level and the standard strength required by the regulation, such increased preparedness would probably not have had a decisive amount to say to reduce the number of fires in Norway. And that's where the problem lies. Too many fires occur, we don't extinguish too few fires. However, I believe that the current legislation in this area today is reasonably up-to-date. Rather, the problems lie in poor enforcement and poor implementation of the current legislation. We simply need to avoid the occurrence of so many fires, by focusing on better prevention and better monitoring that the current legislation is being followed up more closely. But of course, it's important to have a properly dimensioned local fire preparedness. And of course, we have to assume that all responsible authorities have a keen eye constantly to ensure that there is a sufficient level of fire preparedness, both personnel, equipment and preventive, covering all municipalities. In many ways, the level of preparedness itself is an important factor, but the prevention area should have a very high priority. This must therefore be regarded as an overall strategic focus. And further, as far as the level of fire protection is concerned, I would like to remind you that the merger of the Directorate of Fire and Electricity Safety and the Directorate of Civil Protection, which the Stortinget has decided to launch this summer, is most interesting in this way. This aggregation will, hopefully, provide opportunities for a much more coordinated and more efficient exploitation of the total resources present both in the fire service and in civil defence. Civil defence throughout the country currently has large stocks of different fire-extinguishing equipment and equipment which should most often be capable of being deployed in the event of fires and accidents along with the equipment of the local fire-fighting service. Merging of the two Directorates means that civil defence could become a much more effective reinforcement resource for the local fire service in the event of fire and accident, thus contributing to an increased level of fire safety. This will also mean a social gain in terms of greater preparedness capacity to deal more effectively with situations where major fires and other adverse accidents occur. I also want to remind you that today we only have one fire school, while we have three civil defence schools. The new Directorate will also be able to better coordinate the exploitation of all these four schools in order to increase educational capacity and thus increase the level of competence of the country's fire protection staff. I think these moments in the short term will represent both a good strengthening of fire protection prevention and a strengthening of the level of preparedness. I would ask the proposers to note that this is precisely in line with the intentions of the SV proposal. Accordingly, the Committee proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e203	Having a well - functioning fire preparedness is crucial in bringing down the number of fires and fire damage in Norway. In this context, the municipal economy plays an important role. A tight community economy may be the reason many municipalities have too poor fire preparedness. As in most other municipal services, there are also pitfalls within the fire department. And cuttings go beyond preparedness in most levels, including in the pre-emptive work. We know that many municipalities today have a minimum level of fire protection. If the objective is to improve international fire statistics, the economy is an important factor in intensifying work and increasing preparedness in this area. Social security has gradually become a focussed theme – and good! The Directorate for Fire and Safety is an important oversight in this way. Good supervision is linked to good organisation and competence. Therefore, it is crucial to focus on this when state supervisory tasks are to move out of Oslo and organisational changes become a reality. Stifling work is also important. I know that a person is doing a lot of good work in the school, both in the elementary school and in the secondary school, where the aim is to improve the grips and behaviour of children and young people with regard to fire and fire protection. These are good teaching arrangements, which need to be more focused. Otherwise I am aware that the department is running many measures and investigations in the field of fire protection and fire protection. When these are reported, it is important that the reports are immediately followed up by the ministry. It is and must be a measure for everyone to reduce the number of fires and to increase their preparedness. That is why I am pleased that the large majority in the Committee are behind these important objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e218	There is good reason to stress that fire protection is an important societal issue, requiring massive efforts and high priority over a long period of time from all actors involved. St.meld. No 41 for 2000-2001 on fire and explosion protection also set ambitious targets towards 2005 which means a zero vision for major accidents with many fatalities, fires with loss of irreplaceable cultural values, reduction of the number of casualties in fires in buildings and reductions in material losses in fires, explosions and other accidents. Fire damage statistics in Norway still speak their clear language of the need for further action on fire protection measures. In this case, there may be grounds for recalling that the Government has taken action to prevent vulnerability and major accidents, among others. to assess more stringent structural and fire technical requirements, to increase attention to the larger process industry and to the transport of dangerous goods and to the mapping of national cultural values. Furthermore, fires shall be prevented by a continuation of the commitment to measures against residential fires, with a particular focus on the home-dwelling elderly and caring, giving increased attention to safety in electrical installations and the incorrect use of electrical equipment, intensified oversight activities and awareness-raising activities. From the right, we consider it important to stress that there is currently a lot of work going on that is fully in line with the proposers in this document No. The 8 is asking for. For example, in the current year: the fire safety of hospitals, health institutions and hotels is investigated. At present, the fire safety of nursing homes is being monitored. A unanimous municipal committee assumes that this report will be followed up in an appropriate manner by the relevant authorities when it is presented in the summer. There is also reason to point out that the Directorate for Fire and Electricity, DBE, is now going through both the Regulatory Board and its own strategy to increase the effectiveness of prevention measures. The result of this work will hopefully be an increase in fire safety in Norway in the longer term. The consequence is a reduction in the number of fires, which can help Norway to cease to be at the top of international fire statistics. As former rapporteur in the country's oldest city, Tønsberg, I have a long experience of the risks involved in the transport of large quantities of dangerous goods through densely populated areas, as well as a large and highly flammable wooden building. Such challenges impose high and cost-intensive requirements on local authorities and require continuous work on risk and vulnerability analyses and operational and effective preparedness 24 hours each day throughout the year. Consequently, I have seen the value of having a well-equipped, professional and very well trained fire department that could quickly be on the plate when the alarm went off. It meant the safety of the population, not least in high-risk strokes. In a recurring discussion after dramatic events, of course, there is a desire that the fire department should have both more employees and more resources. It is interesting to point out that DBE’s experience is now that municipalities are increasingly complying with the legislation on preventive fire protection tasks. Experience has also shown that, in addition to meeting the emergency requirements, the larger municipalities have a response strength greater than required by the legislation. Smaller municipalities have a strength that is largely equivalent to the minimum requirements. DBE’s experience does not indicate that increased preparedness is the most effective measure to reduce the number of fires in Norway. The extent of a fire will depend to a large extent on the work done in the prevention field. We have the pleasure of recommending the unanimous comments of the committee in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e237	I will first be able to address the suggestions that have been made in the setting. At the same time, on behalf of SV, I have to be allowed to thank for the praise we have received for being concerned about this. But it's unfortunately so that it doesn't help much that we praise each other if we can't do anything more than what we're doing today. It burns more in Norway than anywhere else. Inalienable lives and values are lost. When we treated St.meld. No 41 in 2000-2001 two years ago, a number of decisions were taken. It's been a little while, unfortunately. There are a number of investigations going on. That's right. But if you go in and look at what DBE sail says about these themes on its websites, there are quite a lot of areas left. We are familiar with the main reason why it burns a lot in Norway. It's that there are many electric faults and the use of open fire. When it comes to the first, the number of electrical inspections is going down sharply. The Fire and Electricity Safety Directorate warns seas against this in its own documentation and points out that it could pose a greater risk to electricity and fires. What do we do with that? That's why SV suggests that we have to go through all the fire-prevention control bodies and regimes, so that we know that it's actually done. Unfortunately, if we are not controlled on something that costs us money, it is a mistake. That's the way it is. It's human. It is therefore a responsibility of the authorities to ensure that the control regimes are such that the risk of being taken into account in doing something unlawful is high. That's the way it is. It's necessary. That is why SV is disappointed that we are not getting a majority in favour of this. It's important to go through the routines to see how things really work. If we go back to the fire that was in Trondheim, which was great, the Directorate for Fire and Electricity in a press release dated 29 January this year says that they are critical of that ‘no owner, building authority, fire service or other actors such as architects and consultancy companies controlled the fire safety of the building structure surrounding the ventilation system at the start of the fire’. There was some reason why this went terribly wrong. That's why we also ask ourselves, why, when it comes to building changes, have we put a lot of control on different liability officers? The control of important fire-technical installations is now the responsibility of the person carrying out the task and the owner must check the sea level. I have to admit that if someone does a fire-engineering operation in the apartment I have, I am not able with my competence to check whether this is safe or not. It has disastrous consequences, especially in sectors where owners often change, where conversions often take place, where there is no control. Suddenly you're sitting with a fire bomb, and then the accident happens. Therefore, it may be more correct that it is the fire service to control this before you are allowed to use the building. It is more important to ensure fire safety than perhaps to have to wait a day or two with the building in use. We also know that many fires develop disastrously because the fire technology is not in order. Therefore, we need to ensure that there are routines to ensure that the fire-technical is in order, procedures that provide greater safety than is currently available. Fire safety, preparedness and prevention are closely linked. It is not that a high level of preparedness needs to go beyond fire prevention. Here, on the contrary, teams do the same job. If there is a high level of preparedness, there is also a good opportunity to carry out more fire surveillance than is being done today. That's why we also ask that you go through the levels of fire safety, so that they get higher than today, because you'll be able to beat two flies in a taste: you get a lot more fire surveillance at the same time, which is necessary to prevent things from happening, and then you have a greater preparedness at the moment when the accident is out. It is distant for me to suggest anything about whether the fire in Trondheim or elsewhere had gone on a different course if there had been more people on guard. But there is no doubt that it is necessary that there are enough people on guard and that they can get to the place quickly when the accident is over. This is a difficult thing. It's about spending money on nothing happening, but it's necessary that we do far more than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e261	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e264	As the President announced at the beginning of the meeting, I have once again taken my seat after attending the EFTA and EU parliamentary meetings in Ålesund. Ålesund burned in 1904, and it was a topical issue, today, almost 100 years later. There's too much burning in Norway. There are too many fires. Every human life that is lost is one life too much. A few years ago, we had a tragic institutional fire in my own municipality, Harstad. The loss of protective buildings and urban environments has been mentioned both in the cancellation and by speakers earlier today in the case of Trondheim. Proposalers are asking for increased preparedness and, at the same time, setting out that what may be the most important measure is increasing prevention efforts. It is not least compliance with the legislation we have. When the Christian People's Party does not support the proposals, it is because we think it is reasonable that the work being done now following the previous debates we have had, and the previous decisions we have taken, is an important work. It is also mentioned earlier in the debate that the fire safety of hospitals, health institutions and hotels is being reviewed. The fire safety of nursing homes is now being reviewed and a report is to be submitted to the summer. DBE is reviewing the regulatory body and not least its own prevention strategy. It is important that what has happened after the fire in Trondheim, that is, appropriations so that we can develop skills to ensure dense tree-house environments. We have many of them in Norway, not only in Røros, but also elsewhere. It is important that this competence is developed and that we put it into practice. At this stage, therefore, the Christian People's Party seems reasonable to await the things that are going on. We will have reports for the summer, and we belong to those who would like to take the discussion here to ensure that we get enough action done, and not least to ensure that we all comply with the legislation that exists. We can't just bet that this is going to happen by control. Individuals must also take their responsibility for bringing down the number of fires, the loss of human lives and the loss of protective values. This is a goal, a zero vision, which we all end up with. It also does the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e277	Document No 8:38 for 2002-2003 Is there a need for a higher level of fire protection in some municipalities for the sake of individual and cultural memory? Should the government review all fire-prevention control bodies and requirements and propose reinforced control? The centre party believes that the big fire in Trondheim is a very serious signal about the need for a review at different levels of responsibility. Not least, this has led to discussions in other municipalities with older wooden busses. It is reliable that DBE reports that they are working closely with the Riksantikvaren on the 6000 protected buildings registered and that during 2003 they will carry out a nationwide monitoring of the supervision of municipal and intermunicipal fire protection. The Committee has jointly provided a clear presentation of all the good work carried out in the context of strengthening fire protection in the broadest sense. The Committee has also stated that current legislation imposes strict requirements on fire safety in society. The main problem is that the legislation is not being complied with to the necessary extent. So the question is, is it the one and only one of us who doesn't comply adequately? Is it society that doesn't make up the necessary amount? Are the municipalities with the key role they have, not doing their important part of this job? In the Central Party we thought it was particularly disturbing that Norwegian Fire Protection Association in connection with the fire in Trondheim told the media that many municipalities are now weakening fire protection because the municipal economy is poor. We took it up with the state council, and got an answer there, among other things. ensure that the directorate followed developments closely and that they would react if it was known that some municipalities weaken the dimensioning of the fire service under the regulatory requirements. For us, it's not just the point, that the directorate follows the evolution, and that they react. In fact, it is important for us to stress that corruption and government have a responsibility to ensure consistency between the tasks of the municipalities and the funds they receive. It can easily be seen as a disclaimer of responsibility if it is such that the directorate should follow developments, they should react, but the government should be free to supply funds to the municipalities according to what they think is important. It is up to the Government of the Municipality Proposition and other documents to describe the situation when it relates to the relationship between tasks and means, and where fire protection at home is also a factor. From the centre party's side, we are now awaiting the review DBE has carried out when it comes to supervision during 2003. We are also involved and refer to the Building Law Selection and the assignment they have received when it relates to improvements in their own controls. And then, maybe not unexpectedly, we'll come back to this topic when processing the communicative proposition. We notice that the government is very good at continuing where the municipalities are streamlining, and there is no doubt that, for example. Nord-Jären is an example of how one has streamlined fire protection and thus also made it better and safer, and has got the means to reach further. But it is that there are some municipalities that have such a decentralised structure that it is not possible. And this, i.e. the role of the municipalities, has to go further from the government's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e292	The President must remember that according to the Norwegian state, the Stortinget grants.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e295	I am very pleased that the Stortinge in dealing with this matter has highlighted the measures and assessments described in my letter of 24 February this year, and I am pleased that the Stortinge joins in the work that is now taking place in the field of preventive fire protection and preparedness, and that developments in these areas could lead to a better state than today. But as I also stated in my letter, the development of preventive fire protection is a long-term work, and we cannot expect to measure effects from one year to another. I will do my best to ensure that the work started will be carried on in the best way possible. In this respect, I can also join most of what has been said in this debate. Fire is a major – too big – social problem in Norway. We have to take it seriously, and in this respect we have to keep considering the fundamental considerations that are central to making fire protection work well. There is a difficult continuous balance between prevention and preparedness. There is no doubt that the most effective is good prevention, but there is no substitute for good preparedness when it actually burns. Here's a balance that we have to follow continuously, and there's no universal answer to exactly where the balance point should be at a given time. There is also an ongoing difficult balance between own responsibilities and official controls. Both are necessary. We can't get good fire prevention work in Norway if not 41⁄2 million Norwegians on their own are actually busy doing what is to be done to prevent fire. But that does not mean that the authorities can run from the responsibility they have to carry out checks. So here it's a difficult balance. I just want to make it clear that in the work on fire issues we continuously follow this balance and see if we have a good balance. Let me also say that it is quite clear that very much of the responsibility for preparedness here must lie in the municipalities. The State is responsible for ensuring that the municipalities comply with the laws and regulations. At the same time, it is important that municipalities have the freedom to act, including financially, so that they can give high priority to this work. It means, without me going into the discussion about local economy, that there are not too many other leads on what municipalities should and can spend money on. The government has stressed in the municipal bill that real municipal autonomy should be increased, that there should be less designation of state transfers to municipalities, so that municipalities can even more effectively make the necessary priorities for, among other things. to comply with the obligations in this area. I hope, then, that the discussion of the municipality's proposition in Stortinget will remind you that a great deal of municipal freedom of action will strengthen the local authorities' ability to work in this area. Besides that, I want to mention two relationships a little bit more specifically. The opinion refers to a note made in connection with the submission by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs of the Law on Changes to the Law on Planning and Building. The relationship between the Fire and Explosion Protection Code and the Planning and Building Act is important, and I am concerned that these regulations can be more consistent. We are therefore doing a work that will mean that we will also assess whether there is a benefit to be gained from the proper coordination of the fire technical requirements in one regulation. At the same time, I would like to express my joy at the fact that Stortinget shares the concern I and others have for the fire safety of sheltered buildings and urban environments. For that reason, before Christmas last year, I granted up to 1 million. for the development of knowledge on fire prevention in sheltered wooden buildings. Some of the most important cultural gems we have consist of this three-storey building, and we have too little knowledge of how to do good preventive work. This work is well under way, and DBE is following up Sintef’s contact with the municipality’s protection project. This project will also invite the participation of others working on fire protection measures in wooden buildings, and I will, of course, report back to Stortinget in an appropriate manner as soon as the report of this work is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e311	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e314	I would first like to say that I am very pleased with the work being done around Røros. Of course, it has to be followed up because Norway has inalienable three-house environments, which we need to take better care of than we do today. That's why we want to get ahead of it and have the job for it. When the Council of State points out that we have to be concerned with fire safety on our own, each of us, no one can disagree with it. But how are we going to do it as individuals? I can give an example from my own county: it turned out that in some of the cabins in Trysil, which were set up by foreign entrepreneurs, they had put the fireplace right on the wooden wall, and burned down they did of course. How in the world would a human sail be able to figure out that it was like this behind the fireplace? Before that, the fire service had to check that the fire service was in order. It's over. And our question is, is it tricked? Is it more important that you can use a cabin three weeks before, than that there isn't a very dangerous situation? It was just this that happened in Trondheim. Then I'd like to ask the Council of State, when will this review come? And will the Council of State put fire safety ahead of it that it will take a few weeks before a building can be put into service?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e323	I don't think it's hard to find a lot of examples of the kind of representative Andersen mentions, where a pre-control by the public would prevent fire. But it is also not difficult to find at least as many examples that fire would have arisen if the individual prided himself on the fact that the public took responsibility all the time, and that they themselves had no responsibility. This is a terribly difficult balance. There is a broad consensus in the Storting that we must have a good fire prevention work, which includes not only public authorities, but homeowners, residents and all the craftsmen who somehow are involved in both the construction and ongoing maintenance of a house. As I said in my post, this is a continuous, difficult balance. It is not the case that there is a simple solution that either says that everyone is responsible or that all responsibility lies with the authorities. This weighing must be carried out continuously and there is no universal response.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e328	I registered that the president is also engaged in a matter like this. I'm not in any doubt as to who will allow the necessary money for the municipalities. It's the Storting. But I want to challenge the Council of State if it's not then the Government's responsibility to assert that for the Storting there is as good a basis as possible for the promises being made. I want to link it to the need in many municipalities for an operating fire service as possible, even when it concerns course and training, and what he writes to the Center Party: DBE has seen during the fall that some municipalities have recommended a large cut in the fire service budget. So far, it's related to dimensioning regulations. Will the Council of State agree that the involvement of the Storting in this field will also come to the attention of the Minister of Municipal Affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e335	I'm not going to engage in the line change between the representative and the president! When it comes to the question to me, the Mayor and I have a lot of good conversations on many good questions, and I will clearly convey the views that have come from Stortinget. But at the same time let me make it clear that every time government goes in to earmark appropriations for the municipalities for special purposes, it means at the same time asking the municipalities to prioritize something else. Unfortunately, I am afraid that one of the reasons many municipalities have had problems prioritising fire prevention and emergency work is that there are so many other things that have been imposed on them by mass destruction and government instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e342	Until the last Council of State said, it is well to say that the Government also has an obligation at all times to assess whether the local government sector has enough money to carry out the important tasks, and it is the government's duty to have a law and legislation in place, for example. fire, in terms of both control and preparedness, which is such that we avoid what can be avoided in this area. That's not what we're talking about. I do not think the Council of State should answer the question he was asked: if it is a matter of choice between the issue of efficiency by making use of something as quickly as possible, and having a thorough check that fire safety is in order, what does the Council of State choose? If he reads what the Directorate of Fire and Electricity says about the fire in Trondheim, it is precisely this that was a failure. That there was no loss of life was a big luck, because it happened in a time of day when there were not so many people there. But it's very serious that there can be so much fire-technical changes in a house that it can be completely disastrous, and that no one has a duty to have it checked in terms of fire safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e349	I think the representative Karin Andersen here is trying to create a disagreement about something that really isn't a disagreement. It is clear that there is a need for official controls, but at the same time there is a broad technical agreement that preventive work in terms of both safety, health and the environment requires that good internal control systems are provided for by those who actually build houses or mount fireplaces, etc., and that a much larger part of the official control and supervision work must consist of ensuring that those who do the job have their own control systems in place. This is the path that has given much better results than one had before in other parts of the area of health, environment and safety, and the same applies to fire prevention work. It is precisely this that is the main line of fire prevention in Norway and that in the United Kingdom has had a broad disintegration in all previous treatments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e354	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e359	The background for the submission of this document proposal was the tragic fire in Trondheim on December 7th last winter, where values for many hundred million dollars were lost. Fortunately, no human life was lost, but a large quarter in the middle of the city was gone forever. After this great fire, there was a debate both in the local media and in the national media about whether there was any other authority in the city or government that could have done so that this had been avoided and how to avoid this type of tragic fire in the future. It has burned in Trondheim even after this great fire, and it has burned in many other places in Norway, where the same debate is also going on. Our commitment to this -- and that's the whole Biggest's commitment, no one wants this -- is about how to deal with the problem in a reasonable way. There might be some uncertainty. In the SV's view, there are two things that are raised beyond doubt, related to this situation. One is that the level of preparedness in many cities, especially in cities where there are large protected urban environments, is low. In the report of the Directorate for Fire and Electricity Safety after the fire in Trondheim on 7 December, it is explicitly stated that, following a reorganization in 2002, Trondheim Fire has today an organisation that is not in line with the legislator’s requirements. This is justified in the press release by continuous reorganization and cuttings in the field of fire protection for many years. Now the directorate is also clear that it would hardly have been possible to prevent the extent of the fire even with a higher preparedness. This is mainly due to a lot of technical change, building conversion in one restaurant, nearby restaurants and ventilation shafts that nobody knows where to go. That means that even a little spark can get a very tragic outcome. Then we're dealing with the other relationship, which we're also very clear and unambiguous, namely that self-control has great weaknesses. Of course, we do not believe that the authorities should have the primary responsibility for this. Every single person, every single business, is responsible for this at last, but the situation as it has been in Trondheim, it is quite obvious that we cannot live with it. This has also been the case with the majority of the Grand Duchy at an earlier date, namely the Indst. O. No 38, where the majority – and this is also referred to in the position – say: ‘The majority believe that the current self-control system may have certain weaknesses.’ And further, the majority will therefore be asking for ‘a thorough review of control and oversight functions’. This is the problem, because we know that not only in Trondheim, but also in many other places – especially where there are frequent changes of owners, restaurants where there are bankruptcies – you do not know what the building conditions are, and then there must be an agency that approves the use of these premises. Here, of course, it is the task of the authorities, and especially in such areas where a restaurant is located in a large protected residential area, to have a very special attention. This responsibility must be that of the municipality, and this responsibility is what we demand. We have promoted these three proposals here, and we understand very well that it is not that the rest of the magnification is necessarily against this. But we believe it would have been wise that the Storting had adopted this to give an extra puff towards a higher level of preparedness to prevent fire.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e375	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e383	The size is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e391	During the debate, Karin Andersen put forward three proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government of the State Budget for 2004 to assess the need for changes to the Planning and Building Act, in order to replace all or part of the self-control by building or building changes with the approval of the Fire Protection Authority.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to review all fire-prevention control bodies and regimes, the requirements for fire inspection and preventive measures and to propose comprehensive control regimes ensuring greater fire safety than today’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review and establish levels of fire safety that are higher than today and meet the needs of areas where the risk of loss of life and cultural memories is high.’ These proposals will be replaced by the Committee's voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22.ana.ud1547e432	There is no record.
