ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e28	The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e31	On behalf of the representatives of Karin Andersen, Sigbjørn Molvik, Heidi Grande Røys, Geir-Ketil Hansen, May Hansen, Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken and myself, I would like to propose the introduction of a national health plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e36	The representative of Inger S. Enger will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e39	On behalf of the representative Jorunn Ringstad and myself, I would like to make a proposal to change the practice with regard to the use of restricted driving licences, the driving licence code § 32.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e44	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e47	On behalf of the representative Per Erik Monsen and myself, I would like to make proposals on the reduction of the environmental tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e52	The representative, Siv Jensen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e55	On behalf of Carl I. Hagen, Per Sandberg and myself, I would like to propose measures to improve the functioning of the economy, increase economic growth and reduce unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e61	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e84	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik Council of State Ingerd Schou The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e100	I have a question for the Prime Minister. The war in Iraq is now within its seventh day. It is a war of the Workers' Party and very many others have been against it. We believe that the peace trail should have been followed longer, that the weapons inspectors should have had longer time, and that more should have been done to get peaceful disarmament from Iraq, and that it was therefore wrong to go to war against Iraq. When the war is now under way, there are at least two areas in which Norway can contribute. One is to contribute to the work of resolving the Middle East conflict, which is an important part of the whole conflict in the region, and the other is to provide humanitarian aid. We are pleased that the Government has already contributed, but in relation to what we have given of humanitarian aid in similar conflicts in recent years, Norwegian contributions are still significantly less. I would like the Prime Minister to confirm that he is prepared to step up his assistance. What is needed now is increased financial support and contribution to coordination and ensuring that humanitarian aid reaches those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e111	Let me first express my satisfaction at the fact that the Workers' Party supports the Government's line of conflict in Iraq. It is, as is also known, the Government's position that we cannot and will not support this war, it does not have the authority of a new Security Council decision. The debate in the Stortinge last week showed that it has broad support for the Government. I agree with the representative of Stoltenberg that now that the war has broken out anyway, it is important that we do what we can to help alleviate pain and distress, reach with humanitarian aid. I have just been informed before the spontaneous Question Time that the United States is bringing in some assistance to the city of Iraq that currently seems to have the biggest problems. Norway, for its part, is also committed to increasing its humanitarian aid. We've already done 160 million. kr. We are now in dialogue with the UN, UN Special Organisations and non-governmental organisations to find out how we can best and most effectively contribute. We are also aiming to respond positively to requests to participate in a build-up in Iraq after the end of the war, and we hope to do so as soon as possible. We place the crucial emphasis on the UN being given the coordination responsibility for the overall international aid effort. Let me also end by saying that I agree with the representative of Stoltenberg that a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is important for the whole region. It is gratifying that a Palestinian Prime Minister has now been appointed. It is important that we have a reform-friendly and powerful Palestinian government. This is a prerequisite for progress in the peace process.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e120	It is true that the Workers' Party has supported the Government on the issue that the Iraq conflict should be dealt with in the UN, that it was wrong to go to war, and that the weapons inspectors should have had a longer period of time. We have done so because we believe so, but also because we believe that it is an advantage that Norway has broad support for our position in the United Kingdom in such an important and demanding international situation as the Iraq conflict is. But it is also important that the government helps to speak with one voice and avoid creating misunderstandings and the impression that there are different attitudes. We contribute from the United Kingdom to Norway acting with one voice, but unfortunately, there has sometimes been uncertainty about what is actually the Government’s position, because there have been formulations and arguments that have contributed to creating misunderstandings. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he is satisfied with the Government's overall presentation of the Government's Iraq policy, or whether he realizes that some of the formulations and statements that have come have contributed to creating misunderstanding and uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e127	The answer is yes. I'm pleased with the government's overall presentation of a clear position, which the entire government is behind. There's no doubt about it. What has been a discussion about, both public and public, are the aspects of international law. We are based on the international law expertise we have in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which ends up with the absence of a clear basis of international law for this warfare. Others claim something else. There may also be arguments for this, but for us this is much more political than a legal conclusion, namely that we do not want to be part of and support a war that is not the basis of a new Security Council decision. The government's position is clear. It has also been presented to our allies, and they are by no means in doubt about Norway's position on this war.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e134	There will be follow-up questions – Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e137	It is known that the Progress Party had wanted Norway to be together with the Nordic NATO countries Iceland and Denmark, as well as the United States, the United Kingdom, Italy, Spain and a number of other countries, but notes that the Norwegian Government has chosen something different, as has also been stated by the former parliamentary leader of Right Anders Talleraas, and today in the evening post former defence spokesman of Right Ingvald Godal. But I'm going to leave it now and ask a follow-up question about humanitarian aid. The Progress Party fully shares its views and wishes to strengthen humanitarian aid. We are aware that in the case of increased appropriations at home, the Prime Minister answers that it should be covered with reductions in other areas. Can the Prime Minister promise that the requested and necessary increased appropriations for humanitarian aid to rebuild and help the civilian population will be added and will not go beyond the necessary tasks at home, that they will not fall under the rules of action and the current framework?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e144	First, I register again with interest that Carl I. Hagen is most concerned about which countries we are with in the view of the Iraq conflict. The government is much more concerned with taking its own position, taking the position that's right. There are several NATO countries that have the same attitude as Norway. Then to the humanitarian aid. We consider an increase in assistance and have not said that it must necessarily go beyond other purposes, either internationally or nationally. We have examples from earlier also where there has been an acute humanitarian situation due to wars and conflicts, where one has been willing to disregard the usual containment rules. This has not been the final decision of the Government. What we have already done, we have done through redisposals, but there may be a need for increased assistance beyond this. I would be pleased if the Progress Party now believes that this should not go beyond aid in Africa, for example, where the Progress Party has previously cut the aid budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e152	Kristin Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e155	I have noticed that Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen has been out and expressed that the UN is clearly weakened after the situation that arose when the Security Council could not approve the war that the United States wanted them to approve. Other views have been opposed, namely that the United Nations and the Security Council would really be weakened if it were such that the Security Council felt pressured to approve a war in which the Security Council's view was that all other possibilities were not tested to prevent war, and that war was chosen before it was considered the last resort. I would like to know whether the Prime Minister agrees with the Secretary of State that the UN is weakened.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e160	There is no doubt that there is a temporary setback for the UN that some countries go to war without a warrant in a new Security Council decision. That should not have happened, and that is also a reason why Norway has opposed this war. It is the UN which, according to the UN Charter, is required to assess threats to peace and security. So the Security Council did not adopt a military action, and we agreed, because the Security Council should have given the weapons inspectors more time and gone further on the road to peace. But despite the fact that no such decision was taken, some countries go to war. It is clear that it is a setback for the United Nations that these countries have done so. But we hope it's a temporary setback. The UN has had it in the past, but they've gotten up and become stronger, and we're going to contribute everything we can to it. I also agree with what was behind Mr. Halvorsen's question, that if the Security Council had been pressured and obviously made a decision that was not a real will in the Security Council, there would also be a weakening of the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e167	Haakon Blankenburg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e170	Jens Stoltenberg said that the Workers' Party supports the line presented by the Government, and we have previously said that we are satisfied with the clear line presented by the Government in Stortinget. But we've also said that we're recommending the government to speak only in the Storting, because that gives the greatest clarity. I'm not sure if there's much clarity when it's suggested from representatives of the government that the Swedish Prime Minister has moved into the agrarian and is on some level somewhere. That doesn't give the strongest impression that we have a line where we're busy with Iraq. Jens Stoltenberg called another point, simply the Middle East. Jack Straw now says, before Blair moves to the United States, that the West has a responsibility for a double morality, yes, for hypocrisy and a double standard, because we are pushing forward the implementation of UN resolutions in Iraq, but not doing the same in the Palestine-Israel question. Is the Prime Minister in agreement with this, and what will the Government do in concrete terms to launch an initiative now to resolve the Palestine-Israel question?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e177	The President would point out that there is not necessarily anything negative in relation to the primary industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e180	No, especially for a Foreign Minister from Kolbotn. There's a lot of agriculture in Oppegard, and a little hobby fishing. Otherwise it is well to go a little far, if I understood the representative Blankenborg right, that the government should only speak out in Stortinget. There is a public debate every day, not to say every hour, and the government and government representatives must of course participate in it. But then to the main question – the Middle East. The government is committed to actively contributing to the relaunch of the peace process. As mentioned above, an important prerequisite is put in place by the appointment of a Palestinian Prime Minister, known as Abu Mazen. We stress that his position should involve a real authority. We believe that it may mean that peacemaking is intensified. President Bush expressed it, also to me in his telephone conversation. We support the work of the so-called Quartet – i.e. the EU, Russia, the United States and the United Nations – and their so-called Roadmaps, which must now be presented to the parties as the way towards a peaceful solution, with vision of two states.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e189	Åslauga Haga – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e192	The verbal exercises of the Foreign Minister in recent days actually give the impression that we have a foreign minister who is not quite comfortable with the Government's no to war in Iraq. It seems that the Minister of Foreign Affairs needs to brag a little bit both to the Americans and to the British. This gives some cause for concern regarding Norwegian assistance in the future. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he can assure the United Kingdom that Norwegian aid to Iraq related to humanitarian needs will only be channelled through the UN or voluntary organisations, and whether he can also assure the United Kingdom that the aid will not have any military or civil-military elements that could be understood as support for American-led activities in Iraq, during or after the war.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e197	I repeat that the Government's policy on Iraq is unanimous and in agreement, and there is no doubt about it. As far as aid is concerned, we have said and believe that the UN must have the primary responsibility for coordinating humanitarian aid. We're going to make funds available through the United Nations apparatus, partly through voluntary Norwegian organisations. The UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, has recently stated that the United States has a great responsibility for aid to Iraq, since the United States is leading the war operations against the country. We agree with that. It must be essential that assistance reaches those who are suffering now, and then we must assess all channels that can be effective. With regard to the construction phase after the end of the war, the government has not yet taken a position on which components might be relevant to us here. We have received enquiries about this. We will decide on them in the near future. This is a different phase from the aid to alleviate the suffering that is now caused by the war.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e208	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e212	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. Firstly, I would like to express my satisfaction with the position taken by Norway, which the Prime Minister did well in Stortinget on Thursday last week. It's important to know, because it's not obvious that Christian-democratic or conservative parties end up at that conclusion, that this is a war you can't support. The Danish Government has reached the opposite conclusion, and similar sister parties in Sweden also disagree with the conclusion reached by the Norwegian Christian People's Party and the Norwegian Conservative Party. I am pleased that the Government has, to a large extent in dialogue with the people most and the Church, taken the position it has taken. What's very strange is the excitation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the time after the Prime Minister's statement, because his reaction was much stronger than that of the Prime Minister of Sweden, Persson, who shares the Norwegian conclusion that this is a war that has no support in international law. [[President clubs]] This gives a completely different impression of Norway’s attitude. [[The President clubs again.]] In addition, it was thought that this was such a strong outburst that it could not be on TV. [[The President clubs again.]] Does Bondevik agree more with Petersen than with Persson?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e221	The President must recall that the question is to be asked within the regulated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e224	Now, I guess Kristin Halvorsen is back to statements about the international discussion. There, as Prime Minister and politician, I have the clear view that I will not put political leadership on the legal points. It would be totally wrong if, as a politician, I went through the Minister for Foreign Affairs and said that the Department of Justice of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must come up with that or that conclusion. The assessments of the Legal Service at this point are publicly known. They are located on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' website and can be studied in detail. I presented the main summary of it. This conclusion is more nuanced than the Swedish Prime Minister’s opinion on the issue of international law. We simply note that there may be different international judgments. We are based on the expertise of our own Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What is said, in short, in the conclusion, is that Iraq, with its lack of cooperation, has suffered serious consequences. But it is also said that there is no clear basis for international law, primarily due to procedural considerations, that there must be a process in which the Security Council gives a clear view of the possible use of military power. The Security Council has not. That's why there's no clear ground for international law. That's the conclusion of our Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I'll take note of that. But to me, this is much more a political question. Politically, I will not support a war, because I believe one should go further on the road to peace, and the Security Council has not authorized the use of power. That's why this legal discussion is interesting enough in itself, but it's not important to me. And at least it's not what matters to the people who are suffering in Iraq now – those who are now suffering from bombing and sitting in shelter, who are wounded, and who are killed – yes, to them this legal discussion, I think, is quite uninteresting. Now the question is, what do we do? What do we do to help people in distress and relieve pain? That's what the government is now busy about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e233	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer. In this context, it was not primarily the legal understanding or political understanding of international law that was my point, but the need we have for Norway to speak with one clear voice. The point is that what really raises the Minister of Foreign Affairs is Sweden’s Prime Minister, who agrees with Norway in the conclusion, although there must be some points of reference, and not those that are contrary to Norway’s position and conclusion. On the contrary, he has seen it as his task now to be very understanding to them. And then Norway comes out with a vague attitude in the international debate. For example, the Minister for Foreign Affairs could: had not provided the answer given to me by the Prime Minister now, at least he has not formulated himself in a similar way in the Stortinget earlier. That is why I have only one appeal to the Prime Minister: we fully agree with the conclusion that the Government has taken, this is a war we cannot support. But can the Prime Minister please make sure that Norway's voice is clear and clear in the international debate: that this is a war without legitimacy and that the atrocities of war could have been avoided?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e242	It is not necessary to ensure that Norway's voice is clear and unambiguous in the international debate on support or not support for this war. It has also been said repeatedly by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, nationally and internationally. The statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs to which Kristin Halvorsen is now referring was addressed in the debate on international law and Göran Persson's opinion on international law. So there's different opinions. It is possible that the Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs then has a conclusion that this is contrary to international law, and that Persson is based on it. We have a statement from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which Kristin Halvorsen knows, and which I have just referred to. But for us, this is primarily a political question. That is why we are against this war. We can't support it. It is not the subject of a new decision by the Security Council. It has also been said repeatedly by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, nationally and internationally. We speak with one voice. It's ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e249	There will be follow-up questions – Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e252	Firstly, it is gratifying that there is very broad support for what is Norway’s position as formulated in the Stortinget and in a number of other contexts. But what we are now discussing is strictly not the matter itself. What we are discussing is whether the Government is in a good way able to formulate and present the position Norway has. There is a situation where for a small country like Norway it is important that there is a broad consensus on security policy, and it is important that we speak with one clear voice. And then it's a problem that there's uncertainty about the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister actually have the same opinions, that they're expressing themselves differently, not only in relation to how you react to having attitudes to international law, but also, for example, to what you're saying. in relation to whether one primarily regrets that the Security Council did not agree, or whether one actually regrets and opposes the war. This is not something that is designed in this Chamber, but uncertainty has arisen in the public debate. And then there is full support for the position the Government has presented in the Storting, but it is important that the Prime Minister helps to avoid future uncertainties about what is actually the attitude of the entire Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e261	In fact, I believe that someone is now in the process of constructing an inconsistency or uncertainty that is not present. When I use the statements in relation to Sweden's prime minister as a starting point, it was actually a discussion of international law, and nothing else. And there's different perceptions. We are based on the U.D.'s opinion, and I explained that in Stortinget. Nor is it a problem that the Foreign Minister regrets that the Security Council did not agree on a resolution. As I have said before, and as I would like to repeat now: I believe that the only possibility we had for a peaceful outcome on this was whether the Security Council had managed to get together to give the weapons inspectors more time, and to give them a work programme with clear, achievable deadlines. This would have been the opportunity for a peaceful outcome to this conflict. But it didn't work out for the Security Council. It was split, so we got a war – which we don't support.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e268	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e271	I am pleased that the Prime Minister stresses that this is a political issue, and that he no longer leads international law in front of him, but only refers to the conclusion in the U.D. Justice Department. The Prime Minister will not be placed in any booths; the policy content is crucial. But we have a saying that might sound like this: Tell your friends, and I'll tell you who you are. We have therefore turned our backs on the United States, the United Kingdom, Iceland, Denmark, Italy, Portugal, the Netherlands, Poland and a wide range of other countries, and are united with Germany, Sweden and France – especially after France blocked a solution in the UN Security Council. In a way, it might seem that we are now going to trust that it is Germany, Sweden and France that are going to secure us if we get a vulnerable situation in the future. And the experience with those countries isn't very good, so to speak, historically. Does the Prime Minister feel comfortable with what grouping he has turned his back on, and the grouping with which the Government now stands – i.e. Germany, Russia, France and Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e282	The representative could well add a good number of European countries that agree with the Government’s position. It's not just these he now mentioned. The list is as long as he mentioned above those who support a war without a Security Council decision. But I have to go back to the fact that there is a remarkable angle of approach by the representative Hagen. Here it is not the case and its realities that are crucial, but the countries that group here and there. Hagen is also concerned that we should break a tradition of emphasising the UN and its Security Council, which, according to the UN Charter, is responsible for assessing threats to peace and security. That means Hagen we're going to ignore. The Security Council has not taken a decision on military use of power. Still, Hagen supports it. Then I also have to say that it's a strange notion of what friendship is for something. Friendship does not require agreement on all questions. My best friends are the ones who dare to tell me if they disagree with me, and give me corrections. And that kind of friendship actually also expressed President Bush in his phone conversation with me. He was quite clear that friends and allies can have different opinions. He said directly, "Among friends there can be disagreements." So in this case is Mr. The garden more Catholic than the pope himself. I don't know if Hagen or Bush likes the comparison, but that's the reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e292	To cut off any misunderstanding: I assume that the pope did not also participate in the telephone conversation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e295	It would not have been quite unnatural if he were in, for he has pronounced himself clear against the war.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e300	Probably not on the same line. Bjørn Jacobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e305	We all know that the most difficult thing to win is peace. And we see that several articles are threatened. We know that Article 4 of the NATO Pact is under threat. We know that Article 7 of the UN Charter, that of self-defense, etc., is under threat. All the time we see that it's all gone and gone. In the area by area, it's important to get our ally, the United States, back into the fold. What is the Government and the Prime Minister's strategy for closing this process?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e310	I don't know if I want to call the situation with the United States "into the fold again." What is important for Norway when the war is over, and we hope it can happen as soon as possible, is point 1: reconstruction of Iraq. Of course, the United States and the United Kingdom, which have led the war, have an important responsibility, but the United Nations should coordinate it. Norway should be willing to contribute. And then we can talk about – to refer back to Mr Haga’s question – more than direct humanitarian aid in a build-up phase of Iraq. Point 2: We have to get the Middle East process back on track. The United States is absolutely crucial. Whether we like it or not, it is those who have many of the powers needed to bring the parties to the negotiating table. Point 3, and not least: It is important once again to strengthen the United Nations and its role after the temporary setback we have now received. There's also the United States of America. Not all political forces in the United States have always been equally strong in their support of the United Nations. We want to do what we can to get it into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e315	Åslaug Haga – last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e318	It is with some concern that I note that the Prime Minister is not very clear on which channels to use in terms of aid and that he is also not very clear on the fact that the aid in the current phase should not contain military or civil-military components. My question is about refugees. Of course, we will have – and have already seen that it will – large refugee flows. The pressure on neighbouring countries will be great. We have experience with similar situations, and we know that we can well get up in a situation where the UN High Commissioner for Refugees asks that refugees be taken out, sail if all seafaringly believe that as many as possible should be helped in the neighbourhood. We saw similar examples from Kosovo, where we were asked to take refugees. That situation may well arise. I am amazed that the Government has not prepared for the reception of refugees. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he still intends not to make preparations in relation to the reception of refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e325	It's done. Let me first say, when it comes to being very clear: we are very clear that the United Nations should be responsible for coordination. As far as possible, the UN and Norwegian non-governmental organisations will be involved, but assistance will have to be provided. We are also very clear that we do not want to be part of any contribution, either in the humanitarian or construction phase, which should give the misunderstood view that we have supported the war. Let's be clear. When we come to a construction phase, Haga's representative knows very well that there is more than direct humanitarian aid involved when a country is to be rebuilt after bombing and war. As far as refugee issues are concerned, no major refugee flows out of Iraq have yet been recorded, but it may occur. Norway is in constant contact with the UN. The UN emergency response plan is based on the assistance of refugees in the region. So it is the United Nations that says – and I assume that Haga’s representative places emphasis on it – that is why Norway will also pay attention to it. We are so far away from Iraq that a strong and immediate increase in the influx to Norway is not expected. The construction of refugee camps in the region is now under way. The UN High Commissioner is planning a number of 600 000 refugees from Iraq. There could be more. It could be smaller. However, in an emergency situation, the foreign administration in Norway has contingency plans ready for us to accept as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e334	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e337	I would like to ask the Prime Minister further about part of the same matter. I have noticed that he himself has not taken the opportunity to mention other European countries that share his views, except France, Germany and Sweden. That's all right. I can also mention that Vaclav Havel, former president of the Czech Republic, and peace prize winner Elie Wiesel, according to my information, supports the United States and the United Kingdom in implementing Resolution 1441. In fact, the UN Security Council has given authorisation to use armed force against Iraq to force Iraq to follow up the resolutions adopted. I fully respect the Prime Minister's view that friends should be able to disagree and give different advice to each other. But when you've given advice to a friend, and the friend doesn't follow that advice, but nevertheless starts a fight, it's an important question: Do you want your friend to win, or do you want him to win? My question is: does Prime Minister Bondevik want the United States, the United Kingdom and the other countries in the coalition to win the ongoing war that I know he is against, and that Saddam Hussein will lose, or does he want the opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e346	Since Hagen is still so busy with these countries that have positioned themselves here or there, I can mention that for example. close allies such as Belgium and Canada are on Norway's line. And it's very interesting that Canada is the one that's politically and geographically close to the United States. So we're not in any bad company at all, as Hagen tries to give the impression. Let me also say that we didn't just give advice to the United States to give the weapons inspectors more time. President Bush was quite clear in the phone call that he understood, it came from what he said, that if the United States were going to go to war – and we were fully aware that it was most likely – Norway would not support it afterwards either. We will express our opposition, and we will of course not participate in the military either. When it comes to the outcome of the war that unfortunately started, I get the answer – and many people can notice it, doubting it – just like the Foreign Minister, that it would be madness to hope that Saddam Hussein would win this war. That must be the answer, and that is a clear answer. What I'm now more concerned about is how we're going to win the peace. One thing is to win the war. There, I think, the outcome is relatively clear, with the forces that the United Kingdom and the United States have in the area. But I'm more concerned with how we win the peace afterwards. It can be hard. What will happen in Iraq? Who shall govern after any transitional board? What will happen in the region, when the Arab League now pronounces itself on this war as it does? What will this have to do with the whole region? Would that mean a setback in the efforts to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict? And how much do we have left to build up inside Iraq? This could be the negative outcome of this war, which has also affected my position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e358	I am pleased that the Prime Minister clearly states, as I interpret it at least, that he hopes and wants and believes that the best thing will be for the coalition forces to win the war and remove Saddam Hussein and his regime. I understand that he does not support the fact that war will happen, but that he hopes and wants the United States and the United Kingdom to win the war. At least that's comforting. Now the Prime Minister has invoked a phone call many times. Perhaps for the future, he could consider that such telephone calls take the form of stenographic records, so that we are able to do our own interpretation and assessment of the conversation, based on real knowledge of the content, rather than a one-sided production. It's also true that it's not just the president of the United States who rules. There's a lot of business relations and a lot of connections between the North and the Americans, and there's a lot of people who noticed what happened. Can the Prime Minister confirm that he also wants to work towards a democratic, long-term solution in Iraq?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e367	It is clear that Norway is working to have democratic regimes both in Iraq and in all other countries that do not. But – and here I think the representative Hagen has been unclear in the public debate – removing a regime is not enough war cause. It is not in line with the UN Pact to go to war to remove an unwanted regime. Then the world community can get it busy in warfare. There are many undemocratic regimes around the world, but that's not enough reason for you to start warring against these countries. It must be very clear. With regard to minutes from talks with presidents and prime ministers, I have no intention of breaking a long, incorporated practice, which I believe is also international practice. There is no one, at least as I know, who conducts stenographic records of telephone calls with Heads of State or Government. But I am absolutely sure that I have not given any misleading report of our phone call, as the representative Hagen pointed out. But that trust is to have in such phone calls, that you don't have to start taking stenographic records.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e374	There will be follow-up questions – Morten Højlund.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e377	The situation surrounding the war in Iraq has led to the division of NATO. Some NATO countries have chosen not to support the coalition partners. This gives cause for concern for the future. NATO is the basis of our security. What steps can Norway take here to bring the parties back together and build bridges between allies? Will the Prime Minister confirm that our opposition to the war does not entail any change in our policy on training and the like with American forces in Norway or elsewhere, so that our relations with the United States and the United Kingdom in all areas remain unchanged?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e382	Yes, in my opinion, there is nothing in the different views of the Iraq conflict that would indicate any change in either exercises in Norway with allied forces or in other relations within NATO. I fully agree with what was under the responsibility of the representative, Mr Höglund, namely the importance of NATO being as united as possible. Norway is particularly dependent on the transatlantic interconnections, and they place great emphasis on this government to be as strong as possible. Now NATO managed to overcome the disagreement that was in the alliance on the specific issue it was dealt with, namely the planning of defensive preparedness measures for Turkey. In fact, Norway played an active role in creating a solution, and a consensus was reached. I think it would be wise for NATO, both at the level of the Brussels Council and at the level of the Heads of State or Government, to discuss the experience of the Iraq conflict with a view to strengthening cohesion in the alliance – on which Norway is so dependent.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e389	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e392	The war in Iraq affects us all, and it is natural that it gets a big place in today's Question Time. However, I intend to touch on some other topic, and have a question to ask the Prime Minister about it. Denmark has not long been informed by the European Court of Justice of exemptions from the so-called food make-up directives, which deal with a number of harmful additives in our food. The Courts have held that Denmark has the necessary technical evidence that higher quantities of these additives are harmful to health. In Norway, the majority of the United Kingdom has chosen to accept EU directives on these issues. It has been chosen in spite of all the professional objections. Many will now feel that the development of the European Union's own legal system gives us the opportunity to ask for exemptions, and that there is an opportunity that we cannot let go of. In what way will the Government now bring the matter before the EFTA bodies in order to request the necessary exceptions?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e401	It is true that on 20 March the European Court of Justice delivered a judgment in this case. Denmark had filed a case on exceptions for the addition of nitrite and nitrate, and the Court gave Denmark support. From the Norwegian side – since this judgment is then completely fresh – we have started a review of the judgment and look at the possibilities that Norway as an EEA country had to be given. Therefore, in so far as the arguments put forward by Denmark are similar to those put forward by the Norwegian side, we will be able to consider asking for a corresponding derogation from the Directive, as incorporated into the EEA Agreement. The judgment is in principle, because the Court of Justice of the European Union states that the much-mentioned environmental guarantee in the EU Treaty can be used by a single EU country to maintain stricter environmental and group values than those otherwise recognised in the EU. And that's interesting. The judgment should certainly be studied. It would be interesting to follow in particular the importance of the judgment for EU legislation. So now, to answer the question, we have started work on this, initially nationally, and if we find that the judgment is relevant to Norway, we will of course go further and will be able to address it in the EFTA bodies and later with the EU. But it will, as always in such cases, be an advantage if EFTA is coordinated on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e410	I thank you for your answer. The background to Denmark's exemption, as far as I can see from Danish newspapers, is the technical evidence that nitrate and nitrite are actually carcinogenic. Norway and Norwegian experts have provided exactly the same technical documentation to the Norwegian political environment for both nitrate and nitrite, but also for allergenic dyes, especially in children. This has been one of the reasons why, among other things, The centre party has strongly warned against adopting these Directives. So now we're facing an opportunity to do something about it. I understand that the government intends to assess it. Then I would like to ask about the so-called Babysitting Directive, which was adopted last autumn, if one could also ask for a derogation here. For technical reasons, it has been demonstrated that a number of additives are either harmful to health or allergenic, especially in the Norwegian infant diet.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e419	With regard to these directives, it was – and it is right that the representative Arnstad said – that there were different views in Stortinget when they were approved. And as far as I remember, my own party was also against a couple of them. In the case of the Baby Food Directive, which was approved last year, the Government, at the same time as proposing the inclusion of it in Norwegian legislation, promoted proposals for several remedial measures, which mean that the danger in this case is not so great. But it is clear that we can now also see whether there are parallels with the Child Food Directive to what has happened in the Court of Justice of the European Union with regard to the other directives we are talking about here, where nitrate and nitrite and also dyes are relevant. So the answer is: we start off, study the fresh judgment, see if there are parallels with Norway, and take it further in the case of EFTA and the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e426	There will be follow-up questions – Heidi Sørensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e430	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the initiative he is taking to get such a review, and in this context I would also like to remind you that when these food make-up directives went through the Storting, an agreement was reached between the Consumer Council and each of the major chains in the food industry to try to keep both nitrite, nitrate and azo dyes out of the Norwegian food market. If that agreement has been successful, it would be easy to go back to the old Norwegian legislation, which provides consumers with a higher level of protection than has been stated in the legislation since the directives were implemented in Norway. Will the Prime Minister in that context also go through it, and as soon as possible ensure that Norwegian consumers receive the same level of protection as Danish consumers now have against these substances, which can be carcinogenic?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e435	Let me start by saying, which may also be a little interesting in this context, that since the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union is the starting point for this debate, Norway actually supported Denmark's case before the European Court of Justice. So we've expressed through it a positive interest in the same intentions that Denmark here has. It is clear that if our study of this matter and the judgment now provide the basis for going further, the way of attacking it as the representative Heidi Sørensen now mentioned will be of the things we can assess. We have had the same intention as Denmark, we have supported their case before the European Court of Justice. We originally asked for derogations for these directives. We didn't get that. That is why they had to be implemented. But now that it's dropped an interesting verdict, we'll study if it gives us a basis for resuming it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e442	Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e445	The Food Mining Directive was supported by the Labour Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party here in Stortinget, and it was under the express condition that some means of control were to be put in place to ensure that this would not have adverse health impacts and effects on the population. It is gratifying to record that Denmark has now been implemented. And as I interpret the comments the Prime Minister has made, you will follow up on this further. And if the final conclusion is that there can be direct parallels between the conditions in Denmark and Norway, will he and the Government insist that we get exactly the same rules for this and then set limits on the content of nitrite and nitrate in food products, also imported into Norway, despite the fact that the importers today say they will stick to the old legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e452	I also see the contributions of the representative Hedstrøm as a support for us to study whether there are clear parallels between the situation in Denmark following the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the situation in Norway. Norway asked in 1998 to continue its national legislation in this area when EU legislation allowed the addition of nitrates and nitrite higher than was permitted at the time in Norway. The Commission rejected this. I understood that the Progress Party in itself had no desire to change the legislation, but because this was an EU directive that we did not get a derogation from, the Progress Party went in to implement it in Norwegian legislation. If this judgment now establishes a new case law in this area, I understand that there will be broad agreement that we should follow up and take the consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e459	Morten Lund, last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e462	I can confirm that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party were in charge of this matter, which was dealt with before Christmas in 2000. It was an urgent procedure, but we then got the professional objections, and they were the same as the Danes have. We used the Danish arguments, but the majority in Stortinget did not want us to run this case. Now the Danes have run it for us, and it has been confirmed that environmental and health concerns can sometimes be so strong that they can be used to reserve themselves against EU directives. And that was part of the basis, I assume, because the Christian People's Party in its time agreed to the EEA agreement: some directives we can reserve against. I think it must be particularly important in this context that the Christian People's Party in government is now active. And it sounds like there's more than the central part of the opposition on the Stortinget that wants the government to be active in this. I think there's reason to mark this as a victory for what the Christian People's Party and the Center Party stood for in 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e469	Now, of course, I stand here primarily as a spokesman for the entire government, as Prime Minister. But since Morten Lund mentioned the Christian People's Party in particular, and I did it myself in a previous answer: it is true that our party in connection with our accession to the EEA Agreement, underlined that Norway has an independent right to assess directives. If they are considered to have serious consequences for our country, we must be willing to oppose them. For its part, the Christian People's Party has done so in opposition to the Food Mining Directive, which we are now discussing. But we have also shown that we can do it in position, for the Christian People's Party and the Left's representatives in government, including the Prime Minister, took this one in the government's treatment of the patent directive, which, in our opinion, may have adverse consequences. Now I think everyone in the Government will be interested in studying the judgment of the European Court of Justice on the Food Mining Directive and to be able to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e478	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e481	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Social Affairs. The Minister of Social Affairs has a great deal of faith in the outsourcing of care for the elderly. More and more reports of negative experiences in tendering for older people are now coming from abroad. Majoring candidate Ingjerd Schou wrote a reading in 2001 where she presented the municipality of Farum in Denmark as a brilliant example of how a municipality should be organised. Now the municipality of Farum is under the administration of the Danish government. The rapporteur, who is also hailed in the newspaper post, has been removed from his post and is under police investigation. Does the Minister for Social Affairs think that there is still reason to take inspiration from the municipality of Farum?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e494	What I believe at least is that the government puts quality in the care of the elderly on the agenda, and that competition is an instrument for focusing on the quality of care for the elderly. We have received very good quality in the care of the elderly, but it is very close enough. We've built out for 30 billion dollars. We've got new nursing homes and homes. The guarantee of exclusive space will also be present when we complete the construction in 2005 and the joiners go home. What I and the Government have been concerned about is to notify the Storting that we will now have attention to the content of the care for the elderly, and in particular that it is not just a matter of getting a hospitalization, but that you should actually also know what is contained. I understand the representative so that dedicating to Farum is stupid, especially now, when the matter is under investigation. There has also been no judgment in the matter. But my experience is – despite everything around Farum – that competition is not an end in itself, but an instrument for focusing on what the content of care for the elderly is actually supposed to be. The aim is to increase quality and improve resource use. Research abroad, and so far also experience at home, shows that perhaps the most important thing about outsourcing is the process – regardless of who gets the offer to run, whether it's public, whether it's private, or whether it's non-profit institutions. So we are forced to define the needs of the users, the content of the services, and the scope of the services. At the same time, municipalities are given the opportunity to communicate what they can expect from the service they actually receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e508	I thank you for your answer. I have read it as a big-time candidate, Ingerd Schou, wrote in the Upper Smaalen Tuesday, May 29, 2001. It's a tribute, from a to a, to the municipality of Farum. She quotes the rapporteur with patos. He says, ‘The only thing that cannot be privatised is the royal house, the Folketing, the government and the courts.’ Otherwise everything is brilliant in Farum. Here you're really going to get your inspiration. So it turns out in retrospect that everything goes wrong in Farum. The entire municipality is now under the administration of the Danish government. But you're not going to learn anything from that. There is nothing Social Minister Injerd Schou will learn from what has happened in Farum. You have to forget Farum as an example, find new examples and move on. For it is to be privatised, it is to be put out of competition. Is this not irresponsible as an experiment with Norwegian elderly people in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e528	I am a little surprised that the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen mentions it as an experiment to be concerned with quality in the care of the elderly. A lot of things have gone wrong in the Farum municipality. I do not know the content of the claim in relation to legal proceedings etc. The point is that we can learn from many municipalities that have just looked at the content of care for the elderly and how quality should be. It is more irresponsible not to focus on the content of care for the elderly. So it will no longer be possible in 2003 just to get a hospitalized place when you are not told what the actual content of care for the elderly is. Competition is produced by the representative, as I see it, as a goal. I'm concerned about it as an instrument. It is the seventh and final content of the service to be received by the individual, which is important. In addition, it is also important to say that older people are everywhere, not just in homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e535	There will be follow-up questions – Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e538	Then I will challenge the Council of State to start talking about the quality, which she is concerned about. How will the Council of State define quality? I expect the Council of State to talk about organisation – and that is what SV agrees with. But it's also about having enough people, i.e. someone who can help you when you're about to die, eat, get up -- all the important things -- or comfort you when you're scared. So this is about having enough money to hire enough people. Governments have previously used the municipality of Farum as an example, which has proved to be very bad. Now you're using another example, the municipality of Nakka, which is also going to be very good. The special thing about the municipality of Nakka is – if you look at the price they put on those who need the least care and care – that if you had used that price in Norwegian municipalities, you would have gone far beyond what is the average price in Norway. So these were the ones that were going to cost at least. Does the Council agree that there is a link between the quality we get, what it costs, and the number of people there to care for?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e548	The representative, Karin Andersen, addresses many issues. I want to answer the very last one first. There is no need to drive expensive and bad. The Elder Plan has provided 12,000 more annual work to the care sector. The government has also been clear in relation to the local economy, without us taking the budgetary procedure here. There's more to the municipalities. With regard to the representative's challenge of what quality means, I would say that means, among other things. personnel. That's why the government has invested 110 million. kr for recruitment measures. We have proposed 44 million. kr just for the qualification of unskilled and immigrants. We're continuing to recruit from the interior. But it's about a lot more, it's about leadership. That is why we also have a project together with the Local Governments' Central Association, where 6 000 managers in the care sector get a decentralised school offer. In addition, it is not least about funding and the law in the care of the elderly. This is presented to Stortinget in the quality notification for the first half of 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e557	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e560	The fight against competitive outsourcing and alternative forms of operation and the way in which it is argued is reasonably evident in this case here. History, including in Norway, has shown that in the case of public supply, they have been in part very poor and very poor. I just want to refer to yesterday's lookup in the VG about Alta municipality, where a night nurse is alone with responsibility for four hospitals and over 300 patients. In this context, it is quite clear that we need to think anew in the care of the elderly. We need more actors now, precisely because the quality of elderly care needs to improve. If the individual is to have a good enough offer, we need more players. In this respect, I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs whether she will review what has happened in Alta with regard to the staff that is there, and also whether she will ensure that there will be a further outsourcing of competition, precisely in view of the fact that patients will receive the best possible offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e567	There were two questions. First to Alta municipality: I have been in contact with Alta municipality. I have also been in contact with the supervisory authorities in Finnmark. Alta Municipality has – subject to my right memory – five hospitals. At night, there are three help nurses. There's one nurse in the back. The municipality manns up when there are special needs of patients and the medical officer can be used. The special situation mentioned in the VG, I'm not going into any more detail. There is no supervisory complaint in relation to the operation of the care of elderly people in the municipality of Alta. In fact, I assume that the municipality cleans up itself. When it comes to outsourcing, I want to say that I think it is important that we look at different operating modes. I see outsourcing as an instrument, just to get what I call an order competence. In fact, there I think Norwegian municipalities need more competence. We will also discuss it in the big news of quality in care for the elderly, not only in relation to private care for the elderly, but also in relation to all that is public.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e576	Reidar Sandal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e579	The Minister for Social Affairs has expressed several concerns about the postponement of older people’s care. The last time she did it was a few minutes ago. Governments have often placed responsibility for the problems in the care of the elderly on their spokesmen and advisers in our municipalities. The actual situation is that very many municipalities have too little money. As a result, older people get too poor care. My question to the Council of State Schou will therefore be: does the Minister of Social Affairs Uroar believe that our municipalities have such poor financial conditions that it affects the quality and extent of the supply of older people?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e586	What concerns me is that there are still too many individual cases and that there are supervisory reports that show that we in Norway do not have enough provision in the care of the elderly. It creates uncertainty for those to receive the service, but it also creates uncertainty for those to whom it belongs. I have said in a previous post that it is important to have a good municipal economy, which can give priority to care for the elderly. But it is also a priority. And the experience I have so far is that where rapporteurs and advisers are involved in defining the quality of care for the elderly, there are actually even more opportunities to do so. There is so far no basis for saying that the richest municipalities have the best provision of care for the elderly. It's actually about a process, about a prioritisation, about organisation and management, but of course also about staffing. But the contents of that crew are also important.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e594	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e597	The Council of State referred to all the positive developments, including: for the construction of nursing homes and nursing homes. I think that's reason to remind you that last year at these times we needed 9,400 housing units. The government’s response to that need was that it should be built 2,000. The majority of the population added something, so that now it is built 5,000 housing units with state support. But we in the Center Party thought that all of these 9,400 housing units should be built, so that the capacity was at least somewhat safer. So this is the question of quality and qualification requirements. In a matter that is now in Stortinget, the Government is in favour of a derogation from professional requirements when recruiting staff in the municipalities. This is very worrying. If this requirement is waived vis-à-vis municipalities, there is at least no possibility of making such a claim against private operators in respect of care services. Is this consistent with strengthening the quality and qualification requirements of the service? Does the Council of State consider that private enterprises based on making money in the care sector are able to operate better than public activities, without harming residents and caregivers?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e608	There is nothing in the supervisory reports that suggests that private provision is lower than that of the public in the health sector. I hope I am not going to understand the representative Joy to that it is the Stortingen who is going to set the qualification requirements in relation to who it is that will provide the services in the care of the elderly. I assume that the municipalities are actually able to do the task of defining what skills you need, because it also needs to be based on the need for care for the elderly. And there are, as we know, older people – despite the fact that some people want to have manning standards – just as different as the rest of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e613	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e618	There will be a few changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 9, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Food and Trade, who will direct him. Question 18, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister for the Environment, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e633	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘In very many municipalities, such as: Åsnes in Hedmark, there are many old forested and seater arches that when they were built had an important function in the day's operation. Today these do not have this function, but to use them for other activities/recreational purposes, such as: tourism, or being disbursed from the main property, is very difficult. Does the Council see that another use of these would benefit the districts in a very positive way, and would he be involved in such a change?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e642	With the developments we see in traditional agriculture and forestry, it is natural to consider an increased bet on the opportunities of the out-field. In order to achieve the highest possible area yield and a satisfactory development in many communities, it is important to look at the entire resource base of a property in the context. I would like to make it possible for the activity and employment of Norwegian out-of-country industries to be increased by allowing people with a sense of initiative and good ideas to take advantage of their creativity and new ways. Furthermore, I would like to work towards a liberal and flexible regulatory framework that is suitable for the emergence of capable people who will develop different types of offers that today's consumers demand. In the future, I will work to create a broader policy platform for the exploitation of land and other additional industries in agriculture, including agriculture. to avoid that well-meaning actions from one team are not suffocated by regulations from other teams. This will also apply specifically to this matter, the possibility of exploiting existing building stock in connection with farm use for commercial purposes. This will be a cost-effective and environmentally friendly way of developing the necessary overnight offers for the sale of off-road products, such as: hunting and fishing, while ensuring that the building stock is maintained and maintained. For other experiences, there may also be a need for modest outland settlements. In principle, resources such as this should lie with the agricultural property and be included as part of the total nutritional basis thereon. In this context, there should be specific reasons for disfellowshipping such resources. However, this needs to be considered in a concrete way, and there may also be medium-term solutions to allow for long-term leases. I believe that the main challenge to better facilitate the outreach industries is to coordinate the law that regulates resource management and development in the outreach. In particular, the Law on Planning and Buildings needs to be adapted to new needs and provide better levers for those who want to invest in a continuing livelihood in Building Norway after a sharp decline in income from both traditional agriculture and traditional forestry. There needs to be a greater acceptance that some out-land settlements are the necessary means of operating in modern agriculture. The Plan Act is now known for its revision. In this process, the Ministry of Agriculture will pay particular attention to these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e653	I thank the Council of State for an exciting and positive response. I'm only going to make an additional comment, because I think this was very good. As the Council of State says, in the time of old-fashioned forestry and farming, it was often in the forest from – let's say – two to four weeks, and then there was a need for forestry. The infrastructure was completely different, and they used horses instead of machines. Then there was a real need for this. But time has gone by, evolution has happened, so that now there is a completely different need for forestry than it was then. So the need has been greatly reduced. As I said, I'm very pleased with the answer from the Council of State, and I'm excited to look forward to the development that's going to take place here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e662	The President will assume that the Council of State is also satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e665	I can confirm that it was also meant to be an exciting and positive response, and is in this way satisfied with this dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e673	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: «According to Evening Post 18 March d.o.b. are cut in the number of posts of the Institute for Public Health in the process of weakening the preparedness for infection in the country. At the same time, the new fatal respiratory disease SARS is now reported. Can the Council of States confirm that we still have a good and satisfactory preparedness for infection protection in the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e682	The protection of infectious diseases is based on the principle of responsibility in the Health Protection Act. The person responsible for a service under normal conditions is also responsible for preparedness and emergency planning. In the evening post of 18 March 2003, it was announced that a cut in the number of posts at the Public Health Institute is in the process of weakening the preparedness for infection in the country. This isn't right. The budget cuts in the Institute for Public Health will primarily hit the lowest priority tasks in each unit. The Foundation will redispatch its resources so that the main functions will have sufficient staff at all times. I have received a clear confirmation from the Institute for Public Health that the Institute is able to deploy the resources needed to meet the SARS emergency response, and I can confirm that we still have a good and satisfactory infection preparedness. Infectious preparedness is good in Norway because, among other things: has a network of competent infectious and health care professionals in each municipality and cooperating municipal food surveillance network of hospitals with qualified doctors and other personnel network of the medical microbiological department well informed, healthy and well-vaccinated population National Advisory Committee on Pandemic Influenza, led by the National Social and Health Directorate with a good monitoring system, good competence and good contacts at national and international level; Infectious preparedness has been strengthened in recent years. The vulnerability selection, the anthrax in the United States, and the Dent-o-Sept case have led to a greater commitment to infectious disease protection. I would like to mention in particular that a field epidemiological group is established at the Institute for Public Health and that the Institute has invested in new advanced laboratory equipment to detect relevant infectious agents more quickly. In addition, the Swedish Institute for Public Health has strengthened cooperation with the WHO, the EU and neighbouring regions of Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e712	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which confirms that we still have a good and satisfactory preparedness for infection protection in the country, also in relation to the epidemic of SARS. This has also been confirmed by the Public Health Institute in meeting with the Social Committee. Although the epidemic SARS does not require treatment in specially built isolates, I would like to ask the Minister of Health about the general situation of special isolate in Norwegian hospitals. Do we have a sufficient number? And do we have specialty isolates at all public hospitals with medical wards?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e719	It is a well-known case that the situation with regard to isolate capacity in Norwegian hospitals is worse than we would like. It has been pointed out, among other things. by the Health Authority. In relation to this challenge, I have focused on this in relation to hospital investment in general and hospital development in particular, so that we can gradually get a better capacity for isolates than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e726	I thank the Health Minister again for the answer, and I note that our hospitals have too little capacity in the case of specialist isolates. That was something I knew, but I wanted it confirmed. It's very important that we get this in place as soon as possible. I don't have any additional questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e733	The Council of State does not have any additional response.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e741	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Development: ‘Agriculture in developing countries is important in order to provide citizens with wealth growth and secure access to food and to reduce solitude. So now we have less than 1 pst. development aid was useful in stimulating agricultural development. The Council of State will contribute to the achievement of the target of up to 15 pst. by the assistance is directed towards developing countries’ agriculture?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e750	Agriculture is a key instrument for achieving the UN’s first Millennium Goal: halving the proportion of extremely poor and starving by 2015. Increased spending on agricultural development in developing countries means increasing the emphasis on food security and a way out of poverty. For poor people in rural areas, agriculture means both food and income opportunities. However, this field has been too low a priority to date. However, it is not correct that only 1 pst. assistance has gone to agricultural development and food security. The importance of increased investment in this field is the background for me to set up an external advisory group last year to come up with proposals on how to strengthen agricultural development through development cooperation. The committee has now presented its report. The proposals involve much more than increased use of money, but one of the proposals is to introduce a target of 15 pst. of Norwegian aid to agricultural development. A consultation of the Advisory Group's report has just been carried out. Consultation has included private organisations in the fields of development, environment and agriculture, as well as ministries and NORAD. I have not yet seen all the hearing opinions and have therefore not taken a decision on the details of the report. However, I have already concluded on this direction. We need to be clearer about promoting agricultural development in our aid planning and in our dialogue with developing countries, and we need to increase efforts. How much and with what concrete means will I come back to once the hearing opinions have been reviewed, and we have dealt with the matter. At the Johannesburg Summit, the Prime Minister announced an increase in aid efforts in the so-called WEHAB areas, water, energy, health, agriculture and biodiversity, of which Norway handles health separately. It was added up to 375 million. kr for the next three years. An increase in agricultural consumption will also have to be seen in such a context. In the budget proposal for next year, the Storting will be briefed on how the Government will follow up the report of the Advisory Group on Aid and Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e765	I thank you for a positive response, which I interpret as a clear support for the objective of this internal selection to focus more on getting a higher support rate when it comes to the development of agriculture. It is well known that health, education and competences and other important areas have been highly focused on Norwegian development aid. But I also feel that one should give priority to such basic needs as food in order to reduce so much and not least poverty, as the WHO has an offensive objective of halving on a world-wide basis over the next ten to twelve years. I feel that one hits it very well by streamlining and enabling developing countries to produce more of this food and energy itself. Then it's likely to reach the population that needs it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e772	It is absolutely right that our starting point is to get a stronger bet, as the sample also recommends, but we will then come back to how much, and whether we want a percentage goal and to this extent. As far as the significance of this is concerned, there is absolutely no doubt. Unfortunately, the whole field of agricultural and food security has been neglected in recent years, both by national authorities in developing countries and by international development actors. It's unfortunate. We need to get analytical capacity to respond to that. In any case, we ask ourselves whether such factors have been involved in the famine we have seen in southern Africa and in the Horn of Africa, and whether there are also structural reasons for the lack of agricultural intervention. We will also, together with international actors, test and analyse this. At least there is no doubt that we on the Norwegian side have a clear intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e779	I thank you again for your answer. In this second article, I would like to ask for more specific objectives in this initiative. Is it the instrument that can be as effective as possible that will be analysed? Is there advisory, research, research, loan arrangements, mechanisation and use of retired resource personnel, e.g. in Norway, which can help with professional advice that can be of great benefit, will it be analysed? There are a lot of tools that can be available in a relatively decisive way. Norway as an agricultural country has marked itself by being in the first place on a world-wide basis in many of these areas, and I believe that both capacity and quality are present. Will the Council of State think in these paths?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e786	I have reviewed the selection setting, and it basically includes almost all the tools that the representative Gedrem has in mind. It concerns both specific agricultural-related measures in the field of guidance and economic, financial, e.g.: loan arrangements and credit arrangements. It also applies to enhanced capacity and competence in the Norwegian system, i.e. personnel, in order to manage this. But it is also a matter that the representative mentioned, which is not being discussed, and that is mechanization. You're not interested in that part of the mechanism. I think we have some bad experiences with that in some countries in the past. The non-mentioned representative, who is very central to the selection process, is to ensure better markets locally, regionally, nationally and internationally for agricultural products. This is strongly linked to agricultural production and growth potential. You put a lot of emphasis on that, so you're going to get a whole angle of incidence, and you're going to look at all of these tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e796	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Development: «In the ordinary Question Time of the Storting 19 March at the latest. the Minister for Foreign Affairs acknowledged that in WTO service negotiations Norway has requested South Africa and seven other developing countries to open their education sector to foreign companies. The South African Minister for Education has reacted strongly to the Norwegian requirement. How does this request correspond to the Minister for Development's opinion in regular Question Time on 5 March. that ‘Norway has generally not imposed normal negotiating requirements on developing countries’?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e805	In the Foreign Minister's reply in the ordinary Question Time of Storting on 19 March. on questions from the representative, Bjørlo Lysbakken, it appeared that, in all requests to developing countries, Norway refers to the objectives of the GATS negotiations in the mandate of the WTO Ministerial Conference in Doha and the provisions of the Service Agreement on how to safeguard the interests of developing countries. It is shown, among others: to Article IV of the GATS, which states that ‘the increasing participation of developing countries in world trade should be facilitated, inter alia. by strengthening the capacity of their domestic service sector and its efficiency and competitiveness’;» This is an integral part of Norway’s requests to developing countries, which therefore contains an important element of cooperation. So we're using a different approach to developing countries than to developed countries. This was also the reason for my answer in the Questionnaire on 5 March. In addition, in the bilateral meetings with South Africa, where the requests were discussed, we have invited South Africa to dialogue and cooperation. In retrospect, we have recorded that the South African Minister of Education has issued a critical opinion on the inclusion of the education sector in the GATS negotiations. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in the ordinary Question Time of 19 March, if South Africa in the negotiations indicates that they do not want to include higher education – and it is only higher education that we are talking about here in the negotiations – Norway will not pursue this further. I would also like to stress again what I said in the Questionnaire on 5 March, namely that it is entirely up to the developing countries themselves whether they will accept commitments in the service negotiations or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e821	I thank you for your answer. It is unfortunately difficult to say anything other than that at least for me it was possible to understand the Council of State differently three weeks ago than what I am doing now based on what was said today. I find it regrettable that the Government has resorted to a practice that makes it impossible for the opposition on the Storting to have verified the breaches of information we get from the Government, and that we should rely on getting this information, as in this case, through the political debate in other countries. I would like to ask the Minister for Development whether it is such that the request that has therefore been submitted to South Africa, which has been confirmed by the Norwegian Government team, is not to be understood as an ordinary negotiating requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e830	As I said in my reply just now, there are two important issues relating to South Africa and the request to developing countries. The first is the reference to Article IV of the GATS, which deals in particular with the participation of developing countries, and where reference is made to strengthening capacity in their own service sector. The second is about the bilateral meetings we have had with developing countries and with South Africa on how this request is to be understood. These two conditions mean that, in our context, we have taken a different approach to developing countries than to industrialised countries. I also said that, and that was also the reason for my answer in the Questionnaire on March 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e835	I thank you again for the answer. It is possible that I am thin, but I still have some problems understanding the difference in the normal negotiating requirements that are imposed on some countries, and negotiating requirements that are not quite as normal, that are imposed on countries like South Africa. Norway is one of four countries that have asked for unrestricted access to the education sector in South Africa. Some other requirements promoted by Norway have become known through leaks to the press, for example: Norway wishes to liberalise the telecommunications sector in Bangladesh and the oil sector in Angola. If I understand the Minister for Development correctly, one must assume that what has driven Norway to do so is not, for example. Telenor is heavy inside Bangladesh and Statoil in Angola, but there are reasons for development. Is there also a need for development and Norway's unselfish desire to help South Africa behind the proposal to open up the education sector in that free trade country?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e844	I propose that the representative, Bjørlo Lysbakken, address the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is constitutionally responsible for the questions relating to other aspects of the service negotiations. Just the developmental part of the question I will answer. It is not a question of full opening of the education sector. These are higher education and are not requirements for privatisation in relation to the public sector. This is not about the Norwegian public sector. I have underlined this to the representative Bjørlo Lysbakken before. I'm not going to use unparliamentary expressions, but it's tempting to talk about drowsiness, since the representative himself referred to this. So we've highlighted this earlier. Of course, in this context, when we invite to cooperation, as we do with reference to Article IV of the GATS Agreement and what we have done in bilateral meetings, we will try to make a positive contribution to the development of the education sector in South Africa. That is what is intended and the background to the Norwegian position. But, as I said, this is once again all the way up to South Africa. If they don't want such cooperation, it's up to them. Then, of course, we'll have to take the consequences of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e857	I will ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘In the Mongstad plant, there are many works from, among others: Poland as Statoil is responsible for the development. It was stated in the NRK that they did not know what salaries they subcontracted to their employees, nor did they have the right to see them. These practices are reminiscent of the social dumping of foreign workers. Will the Council of State take initiatives towards Statoil in order to achieve openness in working conditions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e866	As far as I have gained experience, the question from the representative Frøiland is based on the Statoil project for the construction of a petrol desulphurisation plant in Mongstad. About half of this work is done by Norwegian workers, while about half of it is done by Norwegian workers. 7 pst. out of the scope of work is outsourced to workers outside the EEA territory, more specifically a group of Polish workers from a subsidiary of a Norwegian supplier. In order to absorb labour outside the EEA territory, workers under the Foreign Affairs Act must have a work permit in Norway. In the Foreign Affairs Act, it is a prerequisite for the approval of such a work permit that the terms and conditions of the employees shall not: ‘are worse than under the applicable collective agreement, regulation or otherwise normal to the place and profession concerned’. Statoil states that in its contractual terms and conditions they have accepted these claims and that the company has received written confirmation from Main Contractor Aker Kværner that these matters have been continued in concluded agreements with its subcontractors. I have also been informed that the contract format and the use of fixed prices and unit prices for the works performed normally restrict the parties’ access to pay information for the workers concerned. In the light of the attention given to this matter, Aker Kværner, as the main contractor, has obtained further documentation from the company in question, which is a subcontractor. According to Statoil, this information confirms that the salary level is set on the basis of current collective bargaining agreements, and this should be documented at the hourly wage level of the relevant employee groups. Based on this evidence, Statoil shows that, as far as they can see, no evidence has been found to support the claim of social dumping. Statoil further points out that it is an express requirement of the company to comply with the applicable provisions in all its activities and that the same requirement also applies in relation to its subcontractors. I have received signals that, as a result of the attention given to this specific case, Statoil now assesses measures that can better ensure the company's right to supervision and verification, among other things. the pay terms and conditions in relation to future contracts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e882	I thank you for the answer, which I think is positive. It was a startling feature, I would say, on the Dagsrevy, where employees would not or could not – I don't know – say what they had in pay, because they felt that there would be a representative here if they said something. The Council of State here refers to the Foreign Affairs Act, and that is the problem, that it is not a management board that controls the compliance of UDI with its decisions and regulations. That's the problem. Nor do Norwegian trustees who are normally in good contact with them come into a position when it comes to foreign labour, because in the large projects they are also foreign employers, and they do not have Norwegian trustees. It is clear that it is difficult to see, and therefore it is absolutely necessary that Statoil, who is the main supplier, knows what they are paying.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e891	In this specific case, I believe that both Statoil and Aker Kværner have made the necessary clarifications to ensure that all the rules concerning pay and working conditions are met in line with the provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act. In general, I agree with Ranveig Frøiland that there should be transparency and necessary insight into working conditions, so that you can keep track of the fact that there are equal pay conditions, regardless of adding conditions. With regard to the item on the Day Revy, I cannot comment on it because I did not see that item, but I do not overlook that when a non-resident worker puts in front of a TV camera or interviews with foreign workers, it will trigger a fear that someone is doing something wrong with the expectations of the host country. In any case, I am pleased that in this specific case we have been given the necessary clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e898	What's sad is that such things happen afterwards. It shall not be necessary for one to ask questions when such a large, good company as Statoil stands for this expansion. I am very pleased with the work done by the Council of State, which has examined this, and not least because Statoil now says that they should look at how they can guarantee the company's right of access. But I want to confirm from the Council that Statoil will not only look at it, but also ensure that it will be done in the future, so that no new questions will be asked at Statoil's court to have access to contracts to subcontractors, because it must have a company like Statoil.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e903	I would like to stress that Statoil has done what is necessary to do in a case where it was called into question by sub-contractors in terms of addition and remuneration, and that they have taken that responsibility. I also point out that, as a result of this special case, they have also taken action to facilitate procedures in the future and to have access to all information relating to the pay conditions and working conditions of employees, in an unbureaucratic way, and thus do not provide the basis for a similar publication in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e912	I will ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘Hydro has to decide in a few years whether to invest 6 billion. kr in new aluminiumworks at Karmøy. Strict environmental requirements make today's Søderberg technology obsolete, and without initial investment, 1000 jobs can disappear. Energy at predictable and acceptable prices is an important factor in the investment decision. According to Norsk Hydro and Alnor Chemical Trade Union, hydropower from Sauda will be an important contribution. Will the Council of State ensure sufficient power deployment to ensure the energy prerequisites Hydro needs?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e921	An energy supply is important to ensure that there is enough energy in the market at acceptable prices for both households, industry and government. To achieve this, it is essential that a policy is now put in place to reduce the vulnerability of energy supply. The government has already started work on a communication to the Stortinget that draws up a strategy for a safer energy supply. In this context, it will also be important, in the light of experience gained in this winter, to follow up both a professional evaluation and a broad political discussion of the situation in the power market. In particular, it will be important to consider whether security of supply can be better achieved than at present. In this context, it is also natural to consider the need for regulatory adjustments. We are today too vulnerable to long periods of low rainfall. This needs to be corrected. The solution to our vulnerability problem is to focus widely on alternative energy sources that make us less dependent on hydropower. In this context, the conversion of energy consumption and production is central. In such a broad bet I will bring forward five important elements: 1st@item: inlistbox We need to transition from electricity to heat use, and we're going to produce more kilowatt hours from new energy sources. The rich supply of different renewable energy sources offers many opportunities to convert energy production. To achieve this, we depend on the development of a market for alternative energy solutions. Here we want to have a role as a facilitator and a driver.2. We need to save energy. Among other things, new technologies will give us improved opportunities to use energy in a more sensible way than before.3. We need to make the best possible use of the hydropower we've already built up. I therefore believe it is very important to facilitate the modernisation and upgrading of our hydroelectric power plants. I refer here to the representative's questions about the Sauda expansion, which will be finalised by the Government hopefully before Easter.4. We need to make reasonable use of our natural gas resources. In the Gas Communication, which will be discussed tomorrow, the Government has presented a long-term strategy for the rational use of natural gas that can make important contributions to a more flexible energy supply.5. We also need to provide the transmission links, both domestically and abroad, and that this does not create unnecessary bottlenecks in the flow of power. I believe that the Government's areas of activity show that we want to meet the demands of the future on energy supply with a comprehensive effort. Extensive measures are needed across a broad field to improve energy supply. This will benefit both households and Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e951	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was not very uplifting. Norwegian power-intensive industry is undoubtedly the most environmentally friendly in the world. In addition, the aluminium industry has implemented energy efficiency-enhancing measures to produce much more aluminium per day. kilowatt-hours than was the case before. Nevertheless, strict environmental requirements and lack of power are seen to endanger jobs. Does not the Government and the Council of State feel responsible for continuing to have this type of industry in Norway, at least to ensure the power supply to this important industry? Then it is not useful to bet on windmills, because it is not such that this industry can turn off the production on the day it is still in the wind.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e958	I am well aware that no matter how many times I get into the Stortinget and explain the Government's strategy to improve energy supply, both to get more power into the market and to make it less dependent on the hydropower and thus less vulnerable to alternating rainfall conditions, the representative Waksdal will not be satisfied. It seems as if there are completed lines of answers from the Council of State, and I'm not satisfied with it, because the Government is actually taking this situation seriously. We want to improve the situation in the power market. The situation in winter has shown that it is necessary to take proper roofs, and it is not just about windmills. I'm not going to repeat the five points that I went through, but I just want to show that both alternative energy sources, wiring, energy saving and better use of hydropower are elements in this context, and I also showed that the Sauda expansion will be assessed in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e965	I thank the Council again for the answer. Lack of power and strict environmental requirements are, in addition to a high level of costs, important reasons why we are now looking at the deflagration of production and jobs. We all know that as long as there is demand in the market for the products our industry produces, this production will appear elsewhere if production stops in Norway. We also know that most other countries have a completely different and more polluting energy production than what we have. Does the Council of State not see as a result that Norwegian energy and environmental policies currently in force are, in effect, environmentally hostile?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e974	Firstly, I would like to say that the Norwegian aluminium industry still has great competitive advantages of being in Norway, and I assume that we will find the necessary power for this important industry in the future as well. Now let me say that. Secondly, I would like to clarify to the representative that the Government does not want to follow the pattern of climate policy and pollution from other countries, where such a policy is not in line with international agreements. Norway has committed itself to the provisions of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change, and I consider it an important obligation for an energy nation such as Norway to follow this up. I believe that it is fully possible to contribute to an improved energy supply in this country without thereby exceeding the climate commitments that Norway has made internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e984	I have the following questions for the Minister for Oil and Energy: «Following a look up in VG 19 March d.o.b. plans are made if possible for flow rationalisation. Consumption in addition to the allocated allowances shall be penalised at a price of around DKK 10 per person. kWh. The quota should be equivalent to 70 pst. last year's consumption. Many people will have major problems in cutting power consumption so significantly, and will get a significant extra bill. Does the Council of State consider this to be a reasonable way to ensure the balance of forces?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e993	As you know, we have had a very worrying power supply situation in winter. Now it looks like it's going better, and of course I'm happy, along with all those who depend on a secure energy supply. The NVE, as the responsible RAPPORTEUR, has intensified its efforts to make the necessary preparations to manage any situation of rationalisation. It's their responsibility. As I said, NVE now fortunately sees a positive development in the power situation and believes that the risk of rationalisation is significantly reduced. But the situation can still be serious, and I therefore believe it is necessary that the positive preparedness work now in progress be continued. Should an actual situation arise where the consumption of electrical energy is greater than the supply, it will be necessary to carry out rationalisation. In a rationalisation situation, which I stress is less likely now than before, it will be appropriate to implement coercive measures by holding back production, i.e. saving on water in the warehouses and, in addition, implementing measures to reduce consumption may be appropriate. All this happens to ensure that the balance of the system is maintained, and that we have energy for important societal purposes. Consumption reductions can be achieved either through zone-rotating decoupling, i.e. the flow is disconnected for all or part of the day, or the consumer is allocated allowances. I would like to stress that the NVE has not – I am not saying – made a final decision on which of these consumption-reduction measures, if any, will be implemented. The choice will include, inter alia: depend on both the area concerned and the given situation. In any allocation of allowances to consumers, the NVE has not decided to reduce consumption by 30 pst, nor has it decided to impose a penalty charge of 10 kr per. kWh, as indicated in the statement in the VG to which the representative Hageseter refers. The size of any allocated allowance will depend on the required savings volumes in the areas concerned, the types of consumption and the necessary priorities in the areas concerned and the consumption of customers, as well as the potential to reduce consumption. The choice of the method of rationalisation will be based on the desire to carry out rationalisation to the minimum disadvantage of those affected. Unlike zonal disconnection, the allocation of allowances allows customers themselves to prioritize their own consumption within an allocated quota. In this respect, I would like to recall that the provisions on rationalisation were included in the Stortingen treatment of Ot.prp. No 56 for 2000-2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1004	I would like to thank you for the answer, even though I didn't get a very clear answer to my question, if the Council of State thought this was a reasonable way to ensure the power balance. Of course, it is quite right, as the Council of State says, that the power situation has been alarming. For this reason, we have also put forward proposals to put in place temporary gas power plants to ensure this balance. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: it would not seem to the Council of State that it would have been a better idea to increase production, among other things. by initiating temporary gas power stations, and also permanent gas power stations in the long term, in order to ensure a better balance in the power market?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1011	With regard to the answer that the representative Hagesetter had not fully received, I would just like to repeat that there are two types of action that might be relevant. It's zone-wise rotating decoupling, or it's quotas. The two methods have not been taken into account. Hypothetical questions are asked, and I do not think it is necessary to answer them. So it's not like there's been any decision about allowances and the prices per. kWh to which reference is made in the inventory in VG. Then, for my part, I would also like to stress that in a necessary situation, one needs to use the means available. I remember that for my part I was positive about being able to use temporary gas power plants if necessary, in order to facilitate a tight supply situation, but that the applicants found that this was not economically profitable, and that it was therefore not – until it was a state of rationalisation – that the state was concerned about going in with the amount of aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1018	I got very well with me what the council said that there was no taking any position on this from the NVE's side, but that was not my question. I asked if the Council of State thought such a measure was reasonable. In connection with what I said about temporary gas power plants, I will also show that there is a Document No. 8 proposals to subsidise the resulting cost, to ensure a better balance of power and to ensure that a failure to implement such unfortunate measures will have harmful consequences. So to my supplementary question. If one has to implement such measures, this will cause even more problems in paying the electricity bill, and then my question is: does the Council have any good advice on these in case this becomes the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1027	I don't think it makes sense to discuss hypothetical statements through press releases that are not based on concrete proposals by the councils. I have also clearly stated in Stortinget that it is not appropriate to subsidise power measures. It's not an opportunity to do that either. A state of rationalisation makes this possible in line with EU competition rules, but direct subsidies to power generation do not comply with EU legislation. But in a rational state, the situation is different. We just have to be satisfied that we seem to be able to get through this winter without further action to save the power situation. But I'm aware, of course, that it involves high electricity bills another quarter before prices come down to a more normal level. And the government has also implemented important measures to help power customers in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1040	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘State power is required by the competition authorities to sell shares in Trondheim Energieverket or other power generation in Central Norway. Energy company in Mid-Norway and Trondheim municipality can be current buyers. What will the Ministry do to ensure national and preferably local ownership of the power plants that are now to be sold?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1049	Purchases of power plants are subject to the industrial concession law. This law contains rules allowing state enterprises, Norwegian municipalities and county councils and companies with more than 2/3 public ownership to be granted a concession for an unlimited period of time without any return conditions. Norwegian as well as non-resident private operators may be granted a concession for up to 60 years with terms of repatriation to the State at the end of the concession period in the case of the purchase of concessionary power plants. If water falls are transferred which have not previously been subject to concession treatment, the State and, in other words, the county of the waterfall have pre-empted. The State also has a pre-emptive right to acquire holdings in companies which have a concession for an unlimited period if a transfer results in a decrease in the public holding of less than 2/3. If this right of pre-emption is not exercised, the company's unlimited concession must be converted into a fixed-term concession. As you know, the Ministry has a proposal for a non-proprietary fall in ownership which will equate public owned power stations with private ideas as regards concession time and fall-backs. This proposal has created a significant debate and the Government has therefore decided to set up a public investigation committee to assess the institution of the case. Important elements in this context will be the consideration of long-term national governance and control of hydropower resources, value creation and resource use in the power sector. Anyone who wants to purchase power generation or shares in power generation that may be sold as a result of the competition authorities' orders must comply with the applicable rules that I have now explained. As a concession authority, the ministry must likewise deal with any pending applications in line with the applicable law. In addition, it is not possible for the concession authority to give prior commitments on a possible future concession treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1062	I thank you for the answer, and hope that this is good enough to ensure Norwegian ownership. On 17 March, the evening post had an article on the state power situation, that they have come into the situation that they will now have to sell some power plants. The title was ‘Sells power plant out of Norway’. There is no doubt that the majority of the population wanted Norwegian ownership. That's why Statkraft got NOK 6 billion in increased equity and NOK 10 billion in loan guarantees two to three years ago. That is also why it is a majority against the privatisation of State power. Sale to Statkraft must not mean that it will be sold to the rest of the world in the next round – I think the bulk of the population thinks so. The question is whether there are then some policy guidelines for State power in the case of forthcoming sales, which, after the evening post, cover combined power generation for DKK 10 billion, the largest of which is what the question is based on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1073	I point out that today's regulations, which are actually now 100 years old, have proved very useful in ensuring national governance and control and also ensuring value creation and resource use under public governance. It's important to keep going. Therefore, the proposal for a non-proprietary institution of the place of residence was designed to allow the main intention of the current legislation to continue. In particular, it concerns national ownership. I am referring to the fact that the Ministry's proposal for a 75-year fall-back would in any case lead to the state having the necessary control and necessary ownership of the hydropower resources. I consider my share of the hydropower resources to be an important national natural resource, which we must deal with with with with the greatest caution in the follow-up to national control, and that this is also taken care of by the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1080	I'll have to follow up on the fact that State power as a whole is state-owned, and that there is occasion for the General Assembly, which is then the Council of State, to address such things as this. When it is said in that article in the evening post that it is talking to both foreign and Norwegian buyers in relation to this sale, it is also according to the rules that if one sells up to one third of the shares to foreign companies, no concession treatment is required. If any of the local actors here are interested in buying, try to raise the capital that is needed, it takes a lot. A situation which might have been intended to meet both the requirements of the competition authorities and the ability of local operators to buy is the establishment of a company in which Statekraft may be part of that company. Is there any possibility that the Council of State has taken up with the company or assessed otherwise, whether Statkraft in the future Trondheim Energiverk can hold a smaller share, and that the local energy plants can stand for the rest?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1087	I would like to refer to what I said in conclusion in my reply to the questioner, namely that it is not possible to give any prior commitments regarding any future concession treatment. But more generally, I would say that both in terms of the expansion of hydropower, in terms of the development of the aluminium industry, and in terms of the development of oil and gas, i.e. the petroleum industry, this has happened precisely because we got foreign capital to participate in this important industrial promise. Seeing foreign capital as a threat in any way, it's going to be wrong. We benefit greatly from the fact that both foreign competence and capital work in this country. It is important to maintain national control and control. That's what's essential.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1095	This question, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been transferred to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1098	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy, who has been transferred to the Minister of Industry, and it reads as follows: ‘State power has been required to sell its shares in certain power companies. It is now time to sell parts of these shares to non-resident enterprises. Does the Council of State believe that a announced sale to the rest of the world of 20 p.m. shares of Norwegian power plants is in line with the intentions underlying the strengthening of Statkraft’s purchasing capacity in 2001?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1107	Norwegian concession law does not distinguish between privately owned Norwegian companies and companies registered in EEA countries. These operators will therefore remain stable in the case of acquisitions of Norwegian power generation and acquisitions of Norwegian power plants. Similarly, competition authorities will treat private and public operators, whether Norwegian or foreign, equally. The competition authorities have taken decisions concerning the acquisition by Statkraft of shares in Trondheim Energieverk and in Agder Energie. These decisions require the disposal of operations, in which case foreign companies will also be able to notify their interest upon purchase. The treatment and imposition by the competition authorities therefore follow the normal Norwegian legal and administrative rules. There is no conflict between the intentions of the Storting in the treatment of St. pp. No 51 for 2000-2001 on the introduction of deposit capital and increased loan and guarantee frameworks for the SF and decisions of competition authorities. I take note of these decisions and I point out that when dealing with St. Prop. No 51 for 2000-2001 was assumed by the bulk population that: ‘The purchase of power in Norway will be assessed by the competition authorities on a case-by-case basis’. Other parties, which were in a minority, also provided that competition authorities would closely monitor the competitive situation. It is shown in Innst. S. No 200 for 2000-2001 by the Energy and Environment Committee on the injection of deposit capital and increased loan and guarantee framework for Statkraft SF.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1123	The size has said no to the privatisation of State power, and today's situation on the power market suggests that the Storting enters and uses the governance we have to prevent the power being sold out of the country, with the economic consequences this has on the actual owners of the hydropower, the Norwegian people. Instead, the Government requires Statkraft to sell parts of the purchased power company in order to keep 45,4 pst. of the shares in Agder Energie and sales abroad are planned to be carried out in such a way as to avoid relapse and concessional treatment. The Christian People's Party's 2001 note states that the ownership structure of State power and the law of repatriation and concession are to be determined. Does the Council of State think that this is still the case? If shares equal to DKK 10 billion are sold out of the country in such a way that the right to return to those shares cannot be exercised?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1130	Firstly, the Government has not submitted a case to the Government for the partial privatisation or privatisation of State power. This means that there is no decision in the Storting that you should not privatize, because we have not submitted it. We don't have a case for that either. So to what's the questioner's question, that's about the sale of parts of Statkraft's portfolio. This is not part of what State power has been possessing over time. It was a new job which was done, but which they were not approved by the competition authorities, and which they therefore did not have the opportunity to buy, and then they have to sell again. The amount of NOK 10 billion, which was mentioned, is a possible estimate of those values, and then, according to the Industrial Concession Act, there is an opportunity for companies in the EEA territory to bid on it in the same way as for Norwegian companies. Old legislation has been adopted by this assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1137	When counties and municipalities sell their power companies, there is a rash of need – not wanting – to sell. The situation is in many ways parallel to today’s ‘current victims’ when they come to the social office to get help with the electricity bill. First they have to sell everything they own, then we can talk. This has been the case for Norwegian municipalities ever since Bondevik's first government. They have not had enough money to meet the obligations and obligations they have received. And many people have seen no other way than to sell what they own. This occurs at the same time as the country's oil revenues are wasted on international stock exchanges in a free fall. Do the councils understand the large sections of the people who think they are left with the feeling that the state is stealing the property of the people?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1142	I have no idea that the representative Bastisen has to resort to that kind of vocabulary to characterize a situation. I totally disagree with the analysis and definitely with the conclusion. It is that the electricity price that has been this year has caused a lot of people to get a much higher bill than they got last year. But it is indisputable that the regime that applies to power, which this house has adopted — if not unanimously — has been in favour of Norwegian households throughout the 1990s. There is no link between the electricity price and who owns these companies. There is no indication that a company that is 100 pst. County ownership, has a different price policy than, for example, a 100 pst. privately owned company, rather where there is an element of foreign ownership. Here's full competition. It's working. There are other relationships than ownership that have caused the price this winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1152	I will ask the Minister of Social Affairs the following questions: ‘In relation to Document No: 8:87 for 2000-2001 and the treatment of Inst. S. No 267 for 2000–01, the Stortinget decided in spring 2001 to ask the Government to present by the end of 2001 a case showing whether the legalisation of municipal councils for people with disabilities is appropriate and, where appropriate, to propose such legislation. I have not registered that such a case is promoted for Stortinget. Will the Council of State subsequently take steps to follow up the decision of the Storting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1161	In the autumn of 2001, the Stortinget informed the Stortinget of the decision to which the representative of Nesvik refers that the Social Minister intended to deal with the issue of municipal councils for people with disabilities in the forthcoming Britain’s Communication on the policy towards people with disabilities. I have continued the work after this arrangement. Municipal councils for people with disabilities will be addressed in the forecasted call for proposals on the policy towards people with disabilities, which the Government intends to present in this session.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1168	The Council of State here says that there will be a message about this. Does that mean that the Council of State has not taken a decision on whether to amend the law, since it has not been notified of a draft law? Then you must be able to say that you do not follow up – at least you do not want to follow up – by giving a signal now that this is to be legalised. It is important that legislation is put in place, because it is clear that there are distortions between municipalities as to whether or not the proper provision is made for people with disabilities. It is also worth noting that municipal councils for the elderly are statutory, but not municipal councils for the disabled. Does the Minister of Social Affairs see the principle here, that there is no difference between the elderly and the advice for the disabled, so that they should be treated in a non-discriminatory way?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1175	First, I follow up in the same way as the then Social Minister in the autumn of 2001, namely that there was to be a notification about the disabled. In 2001, the Labour Research Institute conducted a study on the situation in this country in relation to the number of advice for people with disabilities. According to that evaluation report, 48 pst. Councils of the municipalities of the country for disabled persons in 2000 and 16 of the counties had such advice. In the big news that the Government aims to present in this session, we will provide an overall assessment of both the elderly council and advice for the disabled. In addition to the proposals made by the Manneråk Committee, we will also deal with proposals made by the Norwegian Pensioners' Association, among others. that municipal councils should not be able to take decisions on elderly policy measures until the decision of the Council of Older People has been taken. I also want to refer from the majority in the Manneråk Committee. The majority of the sample recommends that municipalities be required to organise participation venues, but that they be left free to organise them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1184	I thank the Minister of Social Affairs for the answer and look forward, of course, to the announcement of the disabled who are going to the Stortinget, preferably now in the spring session, and the treatment that will take place there. But I have to say that I'm a little bit surprised, first of all, that it's going to take two years before these things come into place, that there's now to be an assessment. And with regard to the survey done on the percentage of municipalities that have municipal councils for the disabled, it actually helps very little if the councils that are in the municipalities do not have real content. What's really scary is to hear about the large number of municipalities that haven't found space and willingness to set up municipal councils for the disabled. Unfortunately, it shows that people with disabilities are not yet taken seriously in this country, so that they can participate in the areas where the disabled participate. Does the Council share this view?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1191	I share that view that it is important to have arenas where both the elderly and the disabled actually participate in the process. Some of the experience from the survey that was carried out was that in municipalities that had not organised advice for the disabled, they were invited to attend the meetings of the Board of Senior Citizens. I want a review both of the arenas for the elderly and the arenas for the disabled, and of how this is to be organised. The Pensioners’ Association has also pointed out that, in the case of elderly policy interventions, they would like no decision to be taken until the retirement of the elderly Council. So they want a much stronger influence. There are many issues that arise. I am concerned that both disabled people and the elderly should have an influence on the design of their everyday life. It is then important that they have good contact with the political bodies in the municipalities. Then there will also be a discussion about whether the municipalities should be set free or tied up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1202	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘Member States are the largest owner of Norwegian business and may use their position to limit the development of management wages and salaries. Now it has been found that managers of companies with large holdings in the state have received high pay supplements and high bonuses. In January of this year the Council of State stated that he would manage such things with a hard hand. What concrete action will the Council of State now take with regard to the high additions in order to prevent further wage jumps for managers of the companies where the State is a major owner?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1211	The country has an absolute interest in limiting wage growth in the spring wage settlement. The rationale for such a position is to improve the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. Therefore, the Government has concluded an agreement with the social partners that has such an objective. In this agreement, the Government has also committed itself to the use of ownership in terms of management salaries. It is my primary responsibility to follow this up, and I also intend to continue to do so. As you know, it is the responsibility of the Management Board to adopt remuneration and other compensation for the company’s Executive Director. An owner may express views towards the board in this context but may not intervene directly. These principles of liability, enshrined in company law, also mean that the State respects the role of ownership under this legislation. The practical follow-up must therefore take place within these frameworks. Although I have very clear views about the need for those who are in the administration and management of the companies in which the state is heavily ingrained as owners, to follow wage and compensation policies that are considered reasonable in relation to the society around them, I do not intend to go beyond the formal framework. I have on several occasions followed up what I said in January. I addressed this to a number of the companies in the conference that I organised that was called “Better ownership management and good company management” in February. I have sent letters to the boards and company meetings of companies in which the State of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has shares, and I have called all the same companies to a meeting on 9 April, where the management salaries and compensation schemes will again be the subject. In the case of wholly-owned state companies, I would also like to refer to the guidelines laid down as regards the conditions of employment of managers, which the Ministry has given and which are valid. When the representative Solberg asks what I will do now, the answer will be that I will continue what I have done so far, and state clearly what I expect of those who under the law make the decisions that this is about. Then, of course, I would like to have these issues included in the assessment together with other relevant matters when the department determines which persons are best placed to sit in the governing bodies of the companies. We will also discuss this with the representatives of the other owners of the companies, where the State is not the sole owner. Let me end by stressing that we are all concerned with these conditions. We should not allow one group of people, small in relation to the large employee groups in this country, to jeopardize the necessary cooperation in order to control wage developments, on which our entire economy depends. Some have also pointed out that this government has gone beyond previous governments to point out the need for business leaders to contribute their share. However, in view of the enormous values represented by the companies we are talking about here, I feel a heavy responsibility to ensure that the state acts responsibly as the owner. I'm also going to do that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1226	I thank you for your answer. Clearly, with the increasing unemployment we now see, and the major problems facing not least the Norwegian industry, succeeding in a moderate wage settlement will be important in order to secure Norwegian jobs. In order to do this, business leaders must understand their responsibilities and take the lead. The Minister of Industry has been reasonably clear on this question, and I am also pleased with the answer he gives here today. But it is also true that other departments are owners of state companies. So my question is whether the Council of State can now assure that what appears to be his clear line today, is also followed up by all the councils and departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1233	I think we are fundamentally in agreement – and I think that concerns the entire political environment – with the spring wage settlement. It is necessary that we achieve a lower wage growth, more in line with our competitors in order for Norwegian industry to maintain the minimum competitiveness we have. We'd better improve it, wouldn't we? Now it is the case that large parts of the companies in which the country owns shares have been transferred to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, but it is true, as indicated by the questioner, that there are also some companies that are not under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade – I kept saying so far. But it is that ownership policy is firmly anchored in the ownership message we presented. What is policy in this area, and which I have stated quite clearly, applies in every company that is the responsibility of the Government, regardless of the department under which they had to sort. In this way, I think that I would add that I thought the decision of Statoil's board of directors was wise.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1242	I thank you again for the answer. A short time ago, it was also known that another leader, CEO of Norsk Tipping – a company that is wholly-owned by the state, where the Ministry of Culture is the owner – had increased its annual salary by 64,6 p.m.. The reasons given by the Board of Directors were positive accounting results. Since the Minister of Economic Affairs clearly represents the largest owner of the Government in terms of state activities, I would like to ask the following questions: Does the Council of State think that good accounting results in themselves, in establishments where the government is a significant owner, are a good enough justification for such a payshop?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1249	On a principle basis, I would say absolutely star-clearly no. The profit or loss in itself, and its dry numbers, will never be a sufficient reason to talk about salary growth in this area that this is about. Now I do not know the matter specifically in Norwegian Typing, and what was the reason, but as a general statement I doubt that in Norwegian Typing it was only the accounting result. We have seen in many of the companies in which the government has large holdings, where the accounting results may have been good, partly good and modest, that the shareholder value has fallen considerably in the year that passed. There are a lot of issues to record when making a final assessment of what is going to be the salary increase of the Executive Director. Another reference to Statoil. I saw that Statoil, in his reasoning, had said that they had taken other social considerations into account in determining wages. I think it was a wise approach. I'm going to encourage, through the meeting I'm going to have with the other companies, that it's going to be part of the reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1261	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘Parts of Norwegian industry are struggling with competitiveness. At the same time, it is unclear what will result from ongoing EEA negotiations. Norwegian industry in general and the aquaculture industry in particular could benefit greatly from free trade agreements with non-EEA countries. What is the strategy of the Council of State to help Norwegian businesses gain better access to markets in, for example: Asia and North and South America?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1270	The overall objective of trade policy is to facilitate the most efficient use of our resources. A key instrument to achieve this is to reduce key national and international barriers to trade. For export enterprises, good international market access is a prerequisite for profitable operations. At the same time, good market access for other countries’ enterprises to the Norwegian market is important in order to stimulate efficient national resource use, including among others. benefits consumers through lower prices and wider range of products. The WTO is our foremost tool to ensure wide market access for Norwegian exporters. Today, 145 countries are negotiating the conditions for improving trade legislation in a number of areas, such as: services, agriculture, market access for industrial products, including fish and fishery products, better anti-dumping and subsidy regulations. The GATT Agreement calls for further free trade through regional and bilateral agreements. In parallel with the WTO negotiations, we see a rapid global spread of such free trade agreements, and developments have accelerated in recent years. Regional and bilateral free trade agreements concluded between other countries prevent Norwegian exporters from having a level playing field in important markets. This development therefore suggests that Norway should constantly assess the potential by concluding new or further developing existing free trade agreements. The EFTA countries followed in the EU’s cold water when the free trade agreements with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe were concluded early in the 1990s. In recent years, however, we have negotiated more ambitious agreements that also include services, investments and public acquisitions with countries outside the EEA territory. We have just completed negotiations with Chile. The agreement shall ensure, inter alia, that: market access for Norwegian maritime transport and fishery products. In May, EFTA will open negotiations with South Africa, which is an interesting market for several Norwegian sectors. Furthermore, the EFTA countries assess the possibility of a free trade agreement with South Korea. This will include, inter alia: secure duty-free access for Norwegian salmon, which is now subject to a duty of between 10 and 20 pst. We are therefore actively working to ensure Norwegian business access to new markets through regional free trade agreements under the EFTA regime. EFTA countries constitute a significant market in which other countries are interested. That is why we see the WTO and the EFTA track complement each other. We are therefore looking for a balance between regional free trade systems and the multilateral system that promotes Norwegian value creation both in the short and long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1285	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is gratifying that EFTA is seeking to conclude further free trade agreements. Since 1992, trade with our trading partners with whom we have free trade agreements has increased on average by 8 p.m., while trade with the trading partners with which we do not have free trade agreements has only increased by 2.6 p.m.. So the benefits of free trade agreements are clear. We now also see this in the EEA negotiations when we try to compensate for the loss of free trade agreements with the candidate countries. The fact that we have an agreement in place with Chile is a pleasure. That we seem to be able to go into a position where we negotiate with South Korea, is also pleasing. Does the Council of State see a horizon beyond these? And can we allow ourselves to extend the ambitions a little bit longer?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1294	It is quite right, as the representative Höglund says, that trade with the countries with which we have concluded a free trade agreement has increased more than trade with the countries with which we do not have such an agreement. For some industries this is particularly important, and fish – as mentioned above – are one of these. Although, in total, there is not a large part of Norwegian trade, there is an important and large share in trading, among other things. fish. Mexico is one of the countries with which we have agreed, which has definitely been positive. Now we're done with Chile. We have talks going on in EFTA on South Korea. Those assessments will probably be finalised in the Ministerial Council meeting to be held in June, in other words in Norway. The representative asks us if we have ambitions beyond this. Well, it depends a lot on what other countries do, and on what other big commercial powers do. We know that, for example, the United States has been on the road and researched opportunities for other countries. We must follow closely the developments and take the necessary initiatives to safeguard our interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1303	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Just the last country mentioned by the Council of State, the United States, is perhaps the largest market we have next to the EU. Getting an orderly relationship with the United States and a free trade agreement where I think will be of great importance to many industries. We have an agreement with Mexico. If we get the deal with Canada, it's the United States that's missing between there. I interpret the Council's response so that at least the basis for a free trade agreement between the EFTA and the United States will be examined.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1310	There were in particular two countries mentioned. It was Canada, which we've been doing for a very long time, and which most of us had both believed and hoped that we would have finished. It actually stands at one point, and that's what goes on in shipbuilding and Canadian customs walls for the import of ships. That's the relationship we work intensely on on many levels. As far as the United States is concerned, we know that the United States has taken several steps, in the sense of the WTO as its main track, but that they also look at the possibility of other agreements bilaterally. In this context, it is natural that we also assess from the Norwegian side whether there is a basis for taking initiatives of a more concrete nature linked to negotiations. Such assessments are ongoing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1320	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘The sale of Raufoss ASA has stranded, and much indicates that the company is in the vicinity of bankruptcy and needs injection of new capital. Several hundred workplaces are in danger. The State is still a significant owner of the enterprise and has the primary responsibility for its further destiny. What will the Council of State do?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1329	Raufoss ASA has worked for a long time to sell most of its remaining business to Dutch Euralcom NV. As part of this work by the company, I obtained the necessary powers from Stortinget that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade could join such a scheme for the sale of activities in Raufoss ASA. I refer in that context to St.prp. No 39 for 2002-2003 on ownership cases concerning Raufoss ASA and others, which gave a broader explanation of the case. The size joined the structure of the main features. There has been further negotiation between the parties since then, among other things. based on a so-called due diligence review. However, the exchange notification dated 14 March of this year states that: ‘The Board of Raufoss has decided to terminate negotiations with Euralcom on the sale of the Chassis business, as it was not possible to agree on conditions acceptable to Raufoss’ shareholders and creditors. The equity situation is considered unsatisfactory and the board is working on a refinancing plan for the company to ensure a long-term basis for further operations. Internal measures to further adapt activities to the above challenges will be implemented.’ The Raufoss group is currently in a demanding financial situation. It's been known for a long time. Annual results for 2002 showed a deficit of minus 362 million. kr, and significant non-recurring write-downs of fixed assets were carried out. The company's gross and net liabilities increased significantly throughout the year. As a shareholder in Raufoss ASA, the department has to await the board's proposal for action before I can decide how the government will act. The proposal of the Management Board is not yet available, and it is therefore difficult to speculate on measures taken by the State. There are also other major shareholders who have to decide what should be done. As far as I understand, the board of directors and management of the company are now looking at the possibility of finding other solutions, and I will therefore wait for the assessments made by the board of directors before taking new steps from my side. A relationship we want to look at is any environmental obligations that may rest with Raufoss, including: related to the dumping of old ammunition by the former defence and defence companies in Mjösa during both the last world war and the 1950s and 1960s. These are factors that may have an impact on further efforts to ensure the further development of the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1345	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Of course, I am aware of what the Storting has said, and what wishes the Storting has had for the sale of Raufoss ASA, but I am, like the Council of State, also concerned about what is now happening to get a long-term basis for further operations. I interpret what the Council of State finally said about environmental obligations, positive. I would like to ask the Council of State if he now sees some basis for clearing the environmental obligations that lie on Raufoss ASA to make a sale of the company easier. That's the one. The second thing I would like to challenge the Council of States, and which can contribute to what he himself said about getting a long-term basis for further operations, not just for this company, but for the whole of the Raufoss-Gjøvik area, is taking an initiative to support an innovation company that can help increase the development of the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1352	The issue of the sale of essential parts of Raufoss ASA is, of course, led primarily by the board itself because the state is no longer the sole owner. Raufoss ASA has significant environmental obligations. These are the environmental obligations mentioned in the prospectus published in 1990 when part-privatisation of Raufoss. I have informed Stortinget about this and have told Stortinget that in this context I will have to act as an shareholder who sits on approx. 50 pst. From the ownership position, it means that there is a common obligation on the shareholders. With regard to the overall environmental obligations that lie here, Norwegian environmental protection legislation clearly clarifies this. If the State assumes obligations in addition to those arising from environmental legislation in relation to companies, it will be a matter for the environmental protection authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1359	I thank you again for the answer. I record that the Council of State has no comments on a state initiative to create an innovation company in the area. I think it's defensive. I want to say that there are now very many in this area who are waiting for good, offensive answers from the Council of State and the Government. The employees and their families are very insecure. I believe that the state, which is a major shareholder in Raufoss ASA, has a special responsibility to show the way in how this company can be saved, and how this society can see something brighter in the future. So I again challenge the Council of State on this with the innovation company, but also that the state helps to clear the environmental obligations that lie there, just to make a sale of the company easier, and to arrive at a somewhat more offensive policy for this area, because it is expected.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1366	When I did not respond to it in the first round, it was because I knew that I would have a new opportunity. Just to get out of the picture in relation to the environment: it is clear that it is important and interesting both for the state as owner and for the state as such to sort it out so that any buyer knows exactly what risk lies in Raufoss. I'll take that with me. On the question of whether to participate as a potential actor and contributor in an innovation company, there is definitely something to come back to. I'll say it so that it might be natural to see these things in context. If you get to a solution that's as good as I hope it will be, that we can continue the business, but with new, industrial, safe, good and capitalist owners, that's going to be a little different than if it didn't happen. I would also just like to point out, for the sake of order, that Uppland County is actually among the countries with the lowest unemployment rate, and that of course we need to see the whole country in the context before we distribute funds to innovation companies or seed companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1382	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘The use of tolls in Eastfold is in the process of being out of control. In addition to the fact that the funding of Norway’s most traffickers, E6 and E18 through the county, takes place using 50 pst. toll money, a new Svinesund link shall be fully financed with tolls. Although tolls were intended as a supplement to ordinary road appropriations, 1/3 of all road construction is now financed through the scheme. Where does the Government’s toll financing limit go?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1391	It's basically a state responsibility to expand our national road network. This year's state budget allocates approximately NOK 11.5 billion to expand, maintain and operate our road network. Financial policy considerations, however, restrict the financing of the State budget, and therefore tolls have come as an additional form of funding. Toll sub-financing has led to the maintenance of a number of road projects, leading to better and safer roads in a number of places. This year, about 2 billion kroner will be made available from the toll companies. An important principle for toll financing is that this is based on a local initiative. Local authorities must decide on a toll project before it can be submitted for approval in Stortinget. Through the treatment of Phase 1 of the Eastfold Package by the Storting, the main premises for the development of E6 and E18 were made through Eastfold. The decision of the majority involves partially toll-financed development of E6 and E18 through the county. The Ministry of Transport’s proposal for the Storting was based on local decisions. Following discussions between Sweden and Norway, a common Norwegian-Swedish toll scheme was chosen at the national border at Svinesund. At the same time, the Norwegian share of the Svinesund compound was withdrawn from the Eastfold package. In this way, the deployment of E6 in Eastfold is possible, while the E18 is not rocked. Not least for the purpose of the traffic situation on E6, I consider such a service to be very important. I consider the accident situation at E6 in Eastfold to be alarming. The share of tolls as a share of total road financing has not increased in recent years on a national basis. Toll financing will also be widely referred to in the national transport plan for the period 2006-2015, including assessments of the level of toll financing that should be overall. The national transport plan for 2006–2015 will be presented to the Stortinget in spring 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1413	The facts are that the toll stations are growing up like pad hats. When we dealt with the previous road map, it became quite clear that in connection with it we would have a doubling of the number of toll stations in our country. In the case of E6 and E18, which are the most trafficked trajectories to the country, local politicians in Eastfold have contributed to them, but the new Swinesund link must therefore be fully financed. It's an estimate that Eastfold's population is going to pay 40 pst. of these tolls, because they travel part in Sweden, trade part in Sweden, etc. Thus, a national transit year is to a large extent to be financed by residents in one country. But now protests are growing all over the country. It is recorded that the state and the government have budgeted 33 billion kroner in car revenues for the current year, but uses a very small part of it. [[The President clubs.]] At the same time, the quality of our roads is too poor. [[President clubs]] We know that only 4 pst. of the main road network complies with European requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1420	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1423	Is the Council satisfied with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1428	I'm a little uncertain about what the question was. I would generally say that all toll matters are up for treatment in Stortinget. Then there is an opportunity for all parties, including the Progress Party, to make their views on it. This Eastfold pack has been treated, so has the Svinesund compound. It was widely agreed that it was important to implement both the Eastfold Package and the Svinesund project. Therefore, I believe that with such a broad upturn it has been a proper way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1437	In the case of the E6, which is perhaps the most important part of this, the prerequisite for toll financing was a redeployment of this road, with completion in 2009 instead of 2015. Here, too, the Swedes were pressured. The Council of State referred to this agreement with Sweden. But now the Swedish Vegverket proposes to postpone the completion on the Swedish side. So you can finish a lot later on the Swedish side than on the Norwegian side. Does not the Council of State mean, then, that the basis for toll financing is gone?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1444	If this question concerns whether I believe it is appropriate to postpone the development of four-field roads on the E6 in Eastfold – towards Sweden – the answer is no. I don't think a postponement is right. I think the traffic situation suggests that here we have to act. That is why I think it is absolutely right that we are actually making these investments now, not least on the basis of the accident situation that we have seen on the roads in Eastfold. This is the fairly broad consensus on it. As I said, I think it is very important that we get this development carried out, for the sake of those who use the road, and not least for the benefit of those who live in Eastfold who benefit from the fall in accident rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1454	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: ‘The size has previously adopted the Bergen programme against the votes of the Progress Party, where a main measure is the construction of the urban railway. The setting points out that neither financing of the operation of the urban railway nor financing of upgraded bus services for the necessary feeding of passengers to an urban railway is completed. Can the Council of State clarify the role of the State and can the municipality/communities charge State aid for annual operations or can the inhabitants of Bergen expect the annual operation of the urban railway to be financed by additional annual toll collection?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1463	The Ministry of Education submitted in St.prp. No 76 for 2001-2002 for the Stortinget main lines and principles of the Bergen Programme, and the majority of the Storinget joined these principles. The individual projects included in the package will be promoted to the Stortinget in the context of the annual budget proposals, following the existence of the necessary studies, planning guidelines and quality-assured cost estimates. I am generally concerned that public transport in Bergen and other major cities should be strengthened. This is why, among other things: the effort to facilitate public transport on the road network in major cities significantly increased in the 2003 budget of the State Road Administration. In Bergen, some of these funds are also used to strengthen the provision of collective services on important shuttle routes, until planned promotion measures are completed. I have also announced that the Government intends to introduce a new incentive scheme for public transport in major cities in 2004. If Bergen qualifies to benefit from this scheme, the funds could be used freely to strengthen public transport in Bergen, including for operations. With regard to the urban and upgraded bus options option, the locally adopted financing plan implies that urban investment is assumed to be financed entirely from the state budget and by tolls. The way in which the operation of the urban railway and the upgraded bus offer are to be financed has not been finally established. These conditions must be clarified before the department can take a final decision and before the urban railway project can be taken up for allocation. I assume that the final urban funding plan is designed in accordance with current guidelines and established practices. The Ministry is currently working on the applications related to changed administrative organisation in major urban areas. I can mention that the municipality of Bergen has decided in connection with the Bergen programme that they are willing to assume responsibility for the operation of the urban railway if they are given the administrative responsibility for the operation of the public transport network in general. With regard to the question of the operation of the urban runway by the representative of Sortevik, the additional annual toll collection will be financed, I would point out that there is currently no legal basis for using toll revenue for the operation of public transport. I would like to point out that there is close cooperation between the department, the municipality of Bergen and the state road authority in this matter. The urban trasé is currently in a regulatory planning process. The municipality of Bergen is responsible for further investigations related to the urban runway and documentation for alternative use of ollogical agents. This work is carried out in close cooperation between the municipality, Statens vägvesen and Hordaland County. According to the plan, the results of this work will be available at the turn of the year 2003/2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1480	I am confirmed that many important aspects of this experimental urban railway project hang in the loose air and make the uproar rather surprising. Just because the question of how the operation of the urban railway is financed from planned start-up in 2008 is not resolved in the first-reading phase is a clarification of state intervention of fundamental importance. I think many people perceive that the local consensus on the Bergen program and whether the urban railway actually requires state involvement, the earmarked for operation. Is there any extra money for the operation of the urban railway? Or is it government funds for public transport in general that are to be moved from bus for the whole city to the track for a part of the city?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1487	Firstly, I would say that it is not that we can now, as development progresses, rely on one and only to solve the transport challenges in big cities by building more roads and providing only for private cars. We have to think of an overall solution that also involves collective solutions. This means that we also need to sit down and think creatively both on the part of the state, on the part of the municipality and on the part of the county council, all of which are involved here. The issues raised with regard to the urban runway are issues raised in the Bergen programme that have been presented to the Stortinget, and there are still some unresolved issues, including: the financing of operations. This is a work that is in progress, and I will come back to Stortinget with this matter when there are clarifications of these unresolved matters. I intend to make it possible for the Stortinget to take decisions on the construction of both the urban railway and the Ringveg west in connection with the 2005 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1494	If we are to believe the head of transport in the county, the head of the road and the head of the regional road, there is no other option than to collect operating resources from the toll. I understand that today's provisions of the Road Code provide for so-called road pricing, i.e. payments for the use of road networks at certain times, where funds can also be used for public transport. Are the Governments prepared to use the ministry's ability to impose road pricing? If the Council of State will allow local will to decide on the issue of the introduction of road pricing, as it is also open to in today's road law, is there any local political decision or local political opinion through the referendum of the Council of State to decide such an important question?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1501	I am initially fundamentally democratically adjusted. It would be totally wrong for me to conclude here today – conclude – in this case, where there are still so many unresolved questions, and where I want to listen to local initiatives. In fact, I think that it is in Bergen that you see the challenges you face in terms of transport areas in Bergen. Therefore, it would be natural for me to listen to what the municipality of Bergen says in this matter, how they take care of the solutions, and how the Hordaland county councils look ahead. Then we have to look at this in relation to the central authorities before this is once again presented to the Storting. I can safely say that I am coming back to this. I will not draw any conclusions about this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1519	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Following a KS 45 pst test. of 150 municipalities added stop and staffing as a result of a tight municipal economy. These municipalities represent half of Norway's population. At the same time, the media presents serious examples of unworthy care for the elderly. Sees the Council of State that the fight for care services where the individual is met with respect and dignity among others. is concerned with ensuring the consistency of the municipalities between tasks and means, and will it as the head of state council for the local economy do something?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1528	The government has promised real growth in the income of the municipal sector during this grossing-up period. We've kept that promise, and we're going to keep it for the rest of the period. However, there are limits to the extent to which growth can be without adverse consequences, including for the municipalities themselves. A tight government budget has contributed to a decline in interest rates. An interest rate decrease of 1 percentage point means that municipalities save 800 million. kr annually. Three interest reductions since the adoption of the State budget, amount to NOK 1.2 billion more for services. A substantial part of this amount is released already this year. A tight government budget will also contribute to lower price and salary growth for the municipal sector. Net operating performance of the local government sector has been weak in recent years. For the period 1998-2001, net operating surplus was between 2 and 2,5 pst. of revenue. In 2002, municipalities received on average a net operating surplus of zero. However, very many municipalities had a positive net operating surplus in 2002. In these years of weak net operating surplus, the income of municipalities has been real. This means that expenditure has increased more than revenue in this period. For 2002, an expensive salary settlement in the municipal sector contributed to the weak operating result. «Community Renewal and Efficiency Networks», a three-year cooperation project between the Ministry and the Municipal Councils of Central America, has carried out user surveys for a number of municipal services in over 100 municipalities during the period 2001-2002. The studies have revealed that the quality of care and care is very good. But there are variations. The users of home services are more satisfied than the users of institution-based services. There are also wide variations in satisfaction between municipalities. When looking for patterns in these variations, surveys show no clear correlation between resource input and quality. It is not that the municipalities that use the most resources — measured in year-on-year care per year. user - have more satisfied users. The assessments carried out in the local authority network project focus on other factors that determine the quality of experience, such as the competence of managers and staff and the commitment of staff. I think it is important to focus on improving quality in the care sector, among other things. to meet the individual with respect and dignity. This can best be done by facilitating local authorities to learn from each other, such as through the efficiency networks. Several municipalities should make use of the good operating models with which Tvedestrand, Ås and the district of Hellerud have excellent experience. In addition, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Municipalities’ Central Association have undertaken together a comprehensive management development work in the care sector. More money is also important, but not most important if it is the quality of care we are looking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1539	A serious example of Asker or Bergen is one too much. The centre party is continuously working for a more dignified care. Our local populace are -- like the big crowd -- very busy with that. We mean that this is about both stanchions and knowledge, and about getting the good examples and the commitment from the relatives, but it also has to do with money. Expenditure in the municipal sector has increased more than revenue, states the Council of State. She also knows that when many municipalities now present excess, it is because they have cut. They have cut both professional updates and well-being measures against those adding, and they have cut in the number of settings before the care sector. Does the Council of State mean, with its reply, that all municipalities have enough money to provide a worthwhile care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1550	I believe that, within the means used in the public sector today, we could get a significantly better quality of care for the elderly if all municipalities had managed to get to the level of the best in terms of flexibility in the use of resources, management skills and other. I am sure that not least in order to meet the larger number of older people in the coming years, and to keep the coverage of older people up, we need to have both more people working in the municipal sector, and to give more money to the sector to maintain and improve the supply. I agree that both are important factors. But it is quite important to focus on quality in relation to what you can spend the money for today, because it turns out that we have a very good response to the elderly care we have. The simple examples that we've seen, we don't want to have. However, the single examples show that municipalities with fully comparable economies — and even comparable staffing — are able to avoid.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1559	The centre party shares the quality of care services with the Council of State. But we have no reason to doubt what the municipality's central association showed last year, that the municipal sector actually needs $6 billion more in 2003. This concerns both a care where the individual is met with respect and respect, and a good and free school. Let me refer to a group that now seems to drop further back when it comes to supply, that is, they demented. The government should not explain that when it comes to good dementia care, it is actually about several options – that is, more means. Now, as I understand it, the Christian People's Party has enjoyed its troops in relation to the local economy, because they have said that there will be more money in the revised national budget. Can the Council of State confirm that?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1570	No one has said that there is more money in the revised national budget. This cannot be said, since the Government has not begun to deal with the revised national budget. This means that it is not possible to make the kind of promises at a time when the Government has not actually begun to deal with the revised national budget. What we have said about the revised national budget is that we have a review of the local economy. We promised our budget partner in Stortinget – the Advance Party – that we would do so in connection with the tax failure that was found before Christmas. We have also promised Stortinget that in relation to questions related to how energy prices turn out in relation to the local economy, both on social aid expenditure and on the own expenditure of the local government sector. So, what is going on in the revised national budget, no one in the Government can promise anything until the Government has begun to deal with the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1583	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘In family reunification cases, it appears that the authorities reject the application for family reunification to foster children, inter alia. UDI case 02003761 and parallel case concerning Somali family at Lillehammer. Although the child has been in the family since his or her 2 years of age and is now in his or her teens, family reunification is not granted. Does the Council of State consider this to be in line with the rights of children under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and will it then take the initiative to change practice?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1592	Let me first underline, as I always do in these matters, that I do not have the opportunity to go in and evaluate individual matters under foreign law. It is the Foreign Affairs Directorate who takes decisions in family reunification cases, with the Foreign Office as the Board of Appeal. Under the applicable law, foster children may be reunited with their foster parents in Norway if it is demonstrated that the child is an established member of the household and that those exercising parental responsibility over the child are legally doing so under the law of the home Member State. Evidence must be provided to confirm that parental responsibility has been transferred. Final approval requirements for the foster home are made by Norwegian child protection authorities. Since the introduction of the provision of DNA testing to document biological relationships, we have seen an increase in the number of applications for family reunification from foster children. This may indicate that the specified family relationships are not always real. I am aware that the family structure in many countries is very different from the Norwegian one, and that in some countries it is common for parents to take up the children of others and treat them as part of the family. Such a family structure is e.g. widespread in Somalia. It is often difficult to document such a family relationship. Norwegian non-resident authorities implement strict practices regarding the granting of a residence permit in such cases. However, if ‘particularly strong human considerations’ so indicate, an unborn child may be entitled to stay on the basis of family reunification even if one does not meet the conditions referred to above. However, this derogation is strictly practised. The Government recognises its responsibility towards international human rights obligations and assesses the ongoing relationship with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and, as a result, the best interests of the child. When a child seeks family reunification with a person in Norway, the foreign authorities have a responsibility to ensure that the resident effectively exercises parental responsibility towards the child. If this is not the case, I cannot see that staying in Norway is for the best for the child. Unfortunately, we are also facing an increasing problem of child exploitation today. It is therefore very important that we have documentation requirements in relation to children seeking family reunification in Norway. It is precisely the child's best consideration that suggests that we have such documentation requirements. Based on the information we have today, I do not see the need for changes in the rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1605	Thank you for your answer! I am sorry that the government does not see the need to do anything about the legislation. In the cases referred to – there are also several other cases – we have just seen that the Foreign Affairs Directorate does not take a position on the question of whether it is actually an unborn child you are facing, that is. That you almost assume it's an unborn child. However, despite this – and there are situations where 12-13-year-olds have been in the family for 10 years – the decision states that there are no strong human considerations that suggest that such a permit can be granted, and that there are no strong human considerations that speak to make exceptions to the general conditions, etc., almost as a standard. My question is, is this contrary to the Children's Convention? Is it in accordance with the Children's Convention when we actually have a situation where it has been found that it is an unborn child – but despite it, the 12-, 13-, 14-year-old cannot be with the rest of the family of Norway, all the time this child may be of the children who need the most to maintain contact with the care parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1617	I have mentioned that I cannot go into individual matters. I also do not want to comment on individual issues raised by the questioner, with reference to decisions that are outside an area where I have the opportunity to go in and influence, other than on a general basis. On a general basis, I can say that if there is evidence that there is a child-bearing situation, and you can prove that parental responsibility has been transferred, it is therefore open in today's legislation to get family reunification. If there are particularly strong human considerations, which in individual cases are an individual assessment of the situation, it can also be used in cases where it is not possible to provide that type of evidence. I would like to stress that we know that in some countries with these kinds of family structures, it is also a very attractive thing to have their children sent to land in the West. We have had a strict practice in this area, because we know that there are many children who live very discouraged and who have not actually shown that they have been part of that family after they have returned to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1626	I would assume that the Council of State sees that when it is found that you are facing an unborn child who has lived in a family for a long time, this foster child actually needs protection beyond what other children in the family may have, and that it – all the time you, for example. have lost parents in war and have had uplifting family problems out of the state of the country, and it states in the Children’s Convention on the need for protection, on the best of the child, on the need to care for family relationships, and also in Article 27 that there is a need to maintain living standards even in situations where foster parents will take part in such matters too fully, and that there is indeed reason to remove the criterion referred to by the Council of State that there must be specific reasons for family reunification. Does the Council not see that if we are now to be able to actively incorporate the Children's Convention into Norwegian law, something the Government will have to change this practice so that the Children's Convention becomes something more than any buttonhole flower?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1633	The requirements are therefore evidence that parental responsibility has been transferred, evidence that it has actually been part of the family over a long period of time. Then you have the right to family reunification. If you can't prove it, the question of whether there are special, strong human considerations is the reason why you should be able to get family reunification on this basis. We are going to see continuously whether our legislation is in line with or not with the Children's Convention. Of course, if it turns out that we're not practicing in line with the Children's Convention, we're going to change the rules we have. But at the same time, I would like to stress that it is not an assessment. The assessment we have today is that we are not in conflict with the Children's Convention in relation to these matters. We also have a general need to protect children from parents who send their children of low age to a discouraged life in our country, because it is the family's wealth. It's not for the child's good. We also need to be aware that it is not to meet all the wishes for them to come to Norway, which is the right thing to do if we are to take care of the child’s best interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1650	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-26.ana.ud1942e1663	There is no record.
