ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e30	I went to stone school for a few years, and that resulted in a cost of about $600 a month, which came from a spice layer in my family. In my class I had a strong muscular boy, I had a Muslim girl, I had a Jewish boy, I had two with quite heavy learning difficulties, I had a totally amazing drawing, one that was a claw in math, and then we had the slightly more ordinary students like me sail. I might have had my best teachers there, the most dedicated and the most engaged. That school received financial support under the existing private school law. Along with religious schools, schools with alternative pedagogics make up the choice of parents and students today. What we are dealing with now is this: a proposal for a law on independent schools, a law that allows those who do not have a special pedagogical or religious opinion to have a genuine freedom of choice by providing financial support to several types of schools. In practice, the proposal involves a small change, simply because the large majority are still going to want to have their children in a public school. In principle, the law involves an ideological line shift. It also ensures a genuine freedom of choice for those who want a different option from a religious or pedagogical one. For example, maybe you can start a school with a sports profile, a school with ballet classes, a school with a language profile, maybe one with a real-time profile, or you want to have a particularly demanding student, or maybe you have a goal of having a very heterogeneous student mass. To put the legislative proposal in perspective: in Norway today, about 1.7 pst. by pupils in private schools. There are approx. 100 private schools, half of them are stone schools or montessori schools. The parents of the children who attend private schools have on average lower incomes than the parents who send their children to public schools, but they also have on average slightly higher education. At the same time, there are extremely many of those who state the desire for a more diverse student mass as the reason for sending their children to another school. In Sweden, approx. 5 pst. in private primary schools. There's been an increase from about 1 pst. in 1992, when the law now in force in Sweden was introduced. We like to compare ourselves to Sweden, as many people here have done, and probably are going to do, but then we have to remember the following: Sweden has a different system. They have full funding, they don't have access to school money, and they have free school choices. From important points of the law we're now adopting, I'm going to focus on especially four things: first, we're turning focus away from purpose and on quality. So you have to make sure that you get a good education with the one you get in public school. Secondly, no profits can be made from schools. The money that's in school has to stay in school for the best of students. Thirdly, there are, of course, rules on intake which make it possible to have rules on intake, for example in the case of screening, but also only in the case of screening. based on geographical proximity in the same way as in public schools, or having siblings at school. Fourth, the law guarantees minority language students the same right to special training as in public schools. It is only to record the opposition's positions and remarks in the setting. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have gathered on two main issues: firstly, a fundamental distrust of parents and, secondly, a fundamental distrust of public schools. First, SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party allow a certain freedom of choice, by supporting today's private school law. But it should not go further than to the choices of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center's party believe that the parents can make. It's an extreme distrust of the parents. It is a confirmation that politicians are obviously better placed to make the choices on behalf of children that parents are really going to make. The result of the Workers' Party, SV and the views of the Centre Party is that the alternatives to public school are primarily an alternative for those who want the offer offered by politicians. A little in the notes suggests a burning desire from some in the minority to send their own kids to a school with only white students with rich parents. I wonder why they think other parents just want it. Rather, the parents of the children who attend private schools today have a strong desire for a more heterogeneous student mass, and they have a lower income than the average for those who send their children to public schools. So it might suggest that the segregation with which the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party scares, is already a fact, but in public school. Secondly, the Workers' Party and the Center Party clearly believe that there are hordes of rich and resourceful parents who are going to take the kids under their arms and run from the public school as soon as they get the chance, to a high school with poor finances, to a high school with low-paid teachers. Why don't they trust the public school they're otherwise concerned with protecting? I don't think we'll see the caravans of parents with kids under their arms running from public schools, just because the large majority of parents want the kids in public school, because they think it's good. I would also like to warn against the rhetoric that public schools are being drained for resources by establishing hospitals. A student can only go to one school at a time. This means that the resources are channelled where the student goes. Why are resources for pupils in independent schools less valuable than resources for pupils in public schools? I wish the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre were equally concerned with the 98 pst. of the children who will attend public school, which they are by limiting the possibilities for the 2 pst. who wish to choose differently. I have great faith that the colleges will make the Norwegian school better. It's not because fresh schools are going to compete with public schools, but it's because fresh schools and public schools can learn from each other, and because diversity gives better quality than simple, and because knowledge isn't a given size that's for distribution. It's not that if someone learns more, it means taking away those who learn less. Knowledge is increasing, which is spreading. It's important to remember. Finally, I would like to encourage the minority in the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, to one thing: take a trip to a stone school one day, or to another private school! Take a look at the student mass, talk to the students, look at them! You will find all possible skin colors and all possible cultural backgrounds. You will find parents with low income and parents with appropriate high income. You will find a sea of different reasons from parents for why they have sent their children there. Talk to the teachers! Ask the teachers why they are motivated to do the job they do! For me, the diversity of a private school, or what now becomes an independent school, is at least as valuable as the diversity of a public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e63	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e66	I can assure Eriksen that the Labour Party has no distrust of the open school. We actually want to be able to do him even better than he is today, because it can be done. But it's unusual that so many people talk so much about the 1.7 percent, and so were those who were hailed here today by the representative from the Right. I think it's very special that when the government introduces a law on fresh air, the government party is part of the Storting and changes this law in ten areas. Ten new law paragraphs have been added to the Stortinget. There was not much confidence in what the government did either. Right says in its remarks today that the purpose of today's Refreshment is that parents and elephants can choose schools other than the public. That's the first comment. They should choose schools other than the public one, that's the goal. I then ask about this in relation to the representative Voie’s opinion in the magazine ‘In School’ that the public school is the most important. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e75	The Law on Free Schooling has not been amended on any significant points of principle. When you say that the purpose of the law is to be able to choose other schools, that's quite right. If there was nothing to choose from, you wouldn't have to have a law. But it does not support the fact that the public school is and in the foreseeable future is going to be the very most important school for Norwegian children. When you see a trend in Sweden over 11 years, where you have gone from 1 pst. to a place between 4 and 5 pst., with a system where you have full funding and no self-payment, it tells something about the volume. But that's the principle that's the most important, the ability and the right to choose differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e82	Two things: At the start of the debate today, we have raised the uncertainty about § 3-5. The Progress Party will support it subsidiaryly, so that independent schools get the same relationship throughout the law, in the same way as public schools. A question related to this: the problem of children coming to school without being able to Norwegian, or Norwegian, is particularly evident in Oslo, where many children have a foreign language background. More needs to be done here than just legalization. Why will the Right not be in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party to get a case of its own to look at this issue? The second is that the right is saying something in their application that they want to have increased parental involvement. Does it rule out right parental supervision according to the Danish model, as the Progress Party has pointed out, i.e. in a combination of public oversight? Then you can imagine a solution to increase parental participation, by actually allowing them to have a word in the design of how their school will work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e91	When Arne Sortevik had previously spoken, I belonged to those who were almost as happy as Trine Skei Grande that the Progress Party wanted to participate in § 3–5 of the Act. I'm also well aware of the problems that exist with minority speakers in Oslo, and it's also now taking quite drastic steps from the City Council to do something about it, especially where the situation is precarious. However, the reason for not wanting to include this in the law on high school education was simply that this is not a problem that concerns high school, but a problem that concerns Norwegian schools in general. That's why it didn't belong in that law. Simple and simple! In relation to supervision: There is not only positive experience with the Danish model. I think therefore it would be a bit hassardious immediately to throw on such a model when you know that you do not have so much good experience with it. Instead, I wanted to choose the model that you have, and make sure that it is further developed and good.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e100	I agree with Mrs Eriksen on one point. I don't think it's going to be a rush in the first place from groups that want to establish private schools. When you draw a picture of the situation in Sweden, a complete picture, the fact is that in Stockholm – and this with private schools is a phenomenon from the larger cities – it is almost 14 pst. by students attending private schools. It's also part of this picture. But that's not what I was supposed to ask. Ine Marie Eriksen has repeatedly shown that the resource situation in public schools has been quite stable over the last four to five years. New figures from the primary school information system show that the resource situation with regard to the number of split hours between 1998 and 1999 and 2002–2003 has decreased by 19 pst, and the hours of special education have decreased by 5 pst. It is clear that there has been a considerable decline in the resource situation in public schools. Does not Ine Marie Eriksen agree that the new law can help to reinforce this decline and that there is a rather dramatic decline in public school resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e111	I also feel the urge to comment on what Rolf Reikvam said first, namely that in Stockholm we go up to 14 pst. by the pupils in fresh schools. Yes, but what has also been seen in Sweden, thanks to the combination of fresh schools and free choice of schools, is that the social segregation has fallen dramatically, because students from immigrant areas who have not previously had the opportunity to attend better schools in the city can now go to such schools because they have free school choices. So you don't have to move. It'll be a choice for those who can't afford to move. With regard to the resource situation, there is just a big message that will become an annual phenomenon, St.meld. No Thirty-three. This indicates that it has been stable for the last five years. There is nothing in that report or in the big message that suggests that there have been dramatic decreases. What can be reported at this time is that municipalities consider cutting, but there is nothing to suggest that they have cut for the time being. That's also the case, I'd say to the representative of Reikvam, that it's the municipalities that have the lowest income, that spend relatively much money in school. This suggests that Norwegian municipalities give priority to the school, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e120	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e123	I choose to open with a small visit to the representative Eriksen, for this with special training for students from linguistic minorities. It is presented in this case that it is also proposed to amend the training law related to this. What comes from the Progress Party is not part of the bill for the independent schools, but it is an independent proposal: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case with measures to ensure better Norwegian knowledge of children from linguistic minorities/children with immigrant background.’ I assume that the representative has read the proposal. This is a historic day. This is also a good day for parents and primary school students. The law of independent schools dramatically increases the freedom of choice of both parents and students, but also the economic equality of students. An approved independent school will now automatically receive public money. When this happens, it's because the government takes a small but important step on the Progress Party's school path. At the same time, there is reason to stress that this important step does not mean the end of public schools, but that means the end of the near monopoly position that municipal schools owned by primary schools still have in Norway, where 1.7 to 1.8 pst. by students going to private schools. The public monopoly school that we have in Norway undermines the parental mandate and parental law, in our view. It undermines students' free choice, which they consult with their parents and superiors. For the Progress Party, parental rights, mandates and free elections are important. For this reason, this too is a historic day for the Progress Party. There is reason to stress that the purpose of a new law is not to attack the public school either. In the light of the Progress Party, the new law will open up a win-win situation. The public-owned school should be encouraged to make better schools when other school owners can start school more easily. In fact, in the Progress Party, we have faith that the public school will use this challenge in terms of exclusive rights, positive for the students. The Progress Party strongly believes that increasing diversity and increasing competition for students could provide better schooling for all. The violent protests and warnings from the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party reveal, in our opinion, a panical fear that the socialist school of unity will be challenged in terms of professional content and learning outcomes. Thus, these parties show that they are more concerned with protecting public schools than with giving parents and students a good school offer. When many parents and students apply for private schools, it is not least because they are looking for a better learning outcomes than what public schools present today. I think that's reason to remember the purpose of both the Education Act and the upcoming law on independent schools: to give the students a Christian and moral education and good public knowledge, so that the students can become useful and independent people. The law also says in its purpose paragraph that we should have a high level of competence in the people. Then we need the students in focus. Law and school are for the students, not for the teachers, not for the school owners and not for the local self-government. A good school offer depends, in the opinion of the Progress Party, on a variety of offers. This is precisely why more than municipalities have to be given the opportunity to establish and operate primary schools. A variety of offers also mean that today’s tight restriction, religion/life vision or educational option must be removed. Today’s legislative proposals also make it possible for parents and children in Norway to have rights and opportunities much more similar to the rights and opportunities of parents and children in our two nearest neighbouring countries. It's natural to compare with Denmark and Sweden. Most naturally it is to compare with Denmark, which has had free establishment for many, many years. It is a rather free establishment, and it is the parents who have the primary responsibility for supervision. State aid is 74 pst. the cost of public schools, and Danish law actually requires parents to pay school fees. ==References== 12 pst. students attend free primary schools. Danish children do not have much worse learning outcomes than Norwegian children. Sweden was fully committed to the establishment of private schools in 1992. Well four pst. by students, on average, go to private schools. Nor do Swedish children make it particularly worse than Norwegian children in international surveys. When the Swedish schoolwork asks 4,700 parents with 2nd, 5th and 9th grade students – and all municipalities are represented in the sample – the answer shows that freedom of choice has great legitimacy among parents. All 90 pst. consider that parents and children should be able to choose schools themselves. When I spend some time on this, it's because the main opponents of parents and children's free school choices, the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party, paint a horror picture by referring to Sweden. By the way, when we take with us that many of those who vote for these two parties, and actually also elected for these two parties, choose private schools for their children, it reminds us of the priest who said to his parishioner: you should do as I say, and not as I do! If we use Sweden as an example, yes, it is the Swedish LO and not the Swedish parties who paint the black picture and who are trying to create a problem picture of the system of private schools. Let me make it clear that the Progress Party stresses that the draw in the municipality's framework grant for students who choose independent schools should be less than what the schools get. I say this even if it comes in a separate case. I stress here and now that there should be an emergency supplement for the municipal school, as it is in Denmark. There's a solution the Progress Party will go into. In cooperation with the government parties, the Progress Party has ensured important political footprints in this matter. It is stressed that municipalities are not granted a veto against the establishment of independent schools.Approval and supervision are to be carried out outside the department.The government is to promote its own additional case, where new frameworks for independent primary schools are to be extended to secondary schools. It's about. 50 applications in the Ministry for the establishment of secondary schools.A case is to be submitted concerning the standard of professional attainment. Schools for disabled pupils are guaranteed recognition and state funding. The new law will enter into force from 1 October of this year. The Progress Party also promotes its own proposals in the matter, but supports the Government's proposals in a subsidiary way. The Progress Party proposes that the law should now cover all secondary schools, and has legislative proposals to ensure that this is done. The Progress Party proposes to present a new training law, which will cover all students, as we know it from our neighbouring country Sweden. The Progress Party proposes that the approval and supervision be added to NOCUT. In our view, we should have an approval and oversight body covering the whole educational chain. The progress party wants its own case to clarify the school kissing issue. This means that municipalities are given both responsibility and clarification for students with disabilities when local and county borders are crossed. This has to be done, among other things. See you. The Progress Party wants its own case to ensure that all public-owned schools have their own operating boards with parental representatives in a majority. We're taking this up here. And not least, we want the supervision of the public supervisory authority supplemented by toy supervision. We want to give parents the right to supervision, as they do in Denmark. The newspaper last Sunday had a notice that private schools are the best. Such schools often have engaged teachers, interested parents, and motivated students. The challenge for public schools is now to increase commitment, increase interest and increase motivation. Cooperation with parents and students is becoming even more important. Therefore, laws, regulations and practical interventions by school owners, school managers and teachers must be invited to enhanced user involvement. There'll be more school stuff after this before summer takes us. In those cases, enhanced user involvement and enhanced user involvement will be important areas for the Progress Party, and this must apply to all students in all schools, not just students in independent schools. The aim of the Progress Party with the free establishment of schools within a national system of recognition and supervision is not to create elite schools for the few. In our view, freedom of establishment is one of many measures to create better learning outcomes in Norwegian school overall. We need to create a culture to develop schools for all students, and then it does not benefit from prohibition or strict special conditions to run schools in Norway. Norwegian municipalities have no natural competence to run schools much better than others, or without challenge from others. Norwegian parents and Norwegian students are entitled to choose freely. The strong protests and strong warnings from the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party in this matter are really a revealing lack of confidence in their own school system, and a revealing rejection of parents and students' free choice. It is good that their vision does not win. When the law is adopted today, there is reason to send congratulations and congratulations to all parents and all students in Norwegian primary school. We from the Progress Party make a promise: we must do our best to ensure that high school is also open to free establishment as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e205	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e208	I would like to challenge the representative, Mr Sortevik, on one of the proposals that the Progress Party has made in this matter. The Progress Party has also made proposals this time to introduce a new funding system for primary school, based on a system where the State pays school fees for each student directly to the school. The government's proposal to lift the circuit boards will make it easier for students to change schools. Students can shop around a bit, as student organisations have called it. I would like to ask the representative of Sortevik to say and be specific about what models will be laid when primary school is financed in this way. For example, how does the representative of Sortevik deal with this issue? the cost of capital is to be calculated and how this is to be financed? And likewise, how should this system be linked to the constant variation in student numbers at school in relation to teacher staff and the needs that the school has for a few years? I would like to hear what the model is concretely thought out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e222	Yeah, that's perfectly understood. In one of our own proposals, we repeat what we have proposed many times, and unfortunately we may have to propose some more times before we get a majority for it, namely to change the funding system. We are committed to ensuring that government money comes directly to the school where the student chooses to be a student, and that we have a state price system, there is no unknown exercise either in Norway or in our neighbouring country. So we have good access to a very comprehensive set of statistics. It is possible to determine the cost of different types of schools. It is also possible to calculate what would be an appropriate capital contribution. In the version of the proposal put forward in this case, we have also underlined that such a system must include a capital grant, and we hope that we can come, given that there is also a point on which the Government was involved in its own declaration of accession.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e227	When I grew up in Melsomvik, Westfold, those who were members of Smith's friends were the most foreign cultural in my class. Will the Progress Party hold a Christian sect like this, which very many in Norway perceive as foreign culture, outside of the law of free school? My question No. 2: The Progress Party writes that they want to reject schools that obviously establish free provision for ethnically based groups and that the supervision of schools that develop towards ethnically based educational backgrounds needs to be strengthened. My knowledge of ethnicity suggests that this must also mean that supervision must be strengthened and authorisation practices be restrictive against, for example. schools which obviously attract exclusively, or almost exclusively, white Norwegian middle-class children. Is this correctly perceived? Finally, I saw a Swedish show on TV. There was an interview with mothers of immigrant children who told me that their children spoke worse Swedish than they did. So these kids didn't go to private schools. They were left in public school, which was emptied of just white Swedish middle-class children.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e236	The Progress Party is committed to having provisions that clearly show what we want to be a good content in school, whether the school is owned and operated by the public, or owned by someone other than the public. We're also very concerned with an up-to-date and well-functioning oversight. We have pointed that out in this case, and we will also point that out in other cases. This means that the schools that go beyond the boundaries established have to rely on responses, whether Muslim schools or other schools, who choose to challenge what is clear wording and clear guidelines given in legislation and regulations. In Sweden, there are many things to point out. What is a point from the last reading survey is that Swedish children with a migrant background actually read better than Norwegian children without such a background.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e243	The representative of Sortevik argued strongly for parental rights, and it is a principle that the Christian People's Party also supports and shares with the Advance Party. But the law also takes on a different dimension, namely the right of the child in the form of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is important to ensure the right of the child through good supervision and thus to provide good training for the child. The Progress Party wants parental supervision according to Danish pattern. In my opinion, parental supervision cannot be automatically derived from the parental right. It is also derived from a parental management principle. It is likely that there is also doubt as to a system of supervision due to the mixing of roles. It'll be quick to fit the oat sack. I would like to remind you that Denmark has had bigger scandals in relation to primary schools than both Norway and Sweden, for example. The twin schools. Isn't Sortevik more secure on state supervision?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e252	Both the representative Sortevik and the party Progress Party believe in a mixture. We think we can pick up good things from our closest neighboring country, especially from Denmark, which has had a free establishment of schools for over 50 years. It is so free that it is enough to register. No one stops those who report, and it is so free that it is the parents who have both first-line and second-line supervision. Of course, there may be unfortunate episodes to refer to, but my particular impression is that in Denmark you live well with this arrangement. And it shows in our view a great trust in the parents and in the parental mandate. We think it is more important that parents act on behalf of their children directly than that the public assumes that mandate and acts on behalf of children by closing the free elections, as some parties in this Chamber are in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e259	The President will ask the representative, Mr Sortevik, before leaving the Chair, whether he will make any suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e262	Thank you very much, President. I'd like that. I mention our suggestions in the vote, and I have talked about several times that we should subsidize § 3-5. Then I think most things should be clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e269	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to. So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e275	Let me first underline what I was trying to say in a reply to Ine Marie Eriksen about the resource situation in the public primary school. It's an indisputable fact, if you look at the latest data on the resource situation we find from the Primary School's information system, that there has been a 19 pst decrease. during the hour of division. It's going down by 5 pst. in the use of resources for special education. During the same period, there has been an increase in the number of pupils in public schools. So collectively, I'm waking up to the claim that it's quite dramatic, what's now happening in public school. It is not the will of the local politicians, I do not think so at all, but this must be seen in the context of private schools and the poor community economy. So the picture that the Right is trying to draw, that the economic situation has been pretty stable in public school, is not correct when we look at these numbers that the Primary School's information system provides. Ideologies are not dead. If anyone against presumptuous belief in anyone who has said that the ideology is dead, then this case should have refuted this claim. The thing we're dealing with makes the ideological contradictions visible. On the one hand, we have the Progress Party, which, together with the government parties, is now leading to frontal attacks at the public common school. It's not just the school that's being attacked, but they're attacking one of the pillars of the welfare community. The public school as a meeting place for all children is the main basis for having a homogeneous society — a society with relatively few differences, because we all have a common reference framework. That framework has given everyone the opportunity to participate in the public debate on a similar basis, because we have the same educational background, and we have the same experience. In school, we meet the breadth of experience, attitudes and outlook on life, and we are challenged by what we stand for, each of us, when it comes to public school. We've been to the same school, with common curricula, and we've got to share what society expects us to have of knowledge. The school, together with the Church, is probably the most important bearer and conveyer of what we call the cultural heritage. It's this thing that's now being attacked in a way that we haven't experienced before. The free public school is a prerequisite for the welfare society that we've built and that we've developed. I don't have any trouble understanding the point of view of the Progress Party. The Progress Party is, in its basic position, a liberalist party that will weaken the community in order to leave tasks to private actors. We're looking at the area by area. I also understand parts of the Right, the part that represents the “calculator” part, cf. an entry in Asker and Bærums Budstikke, where one of the local government representatives of the Right defined the lot as a calculation party, precisely because there are calculations that determine priorities and what is important. The most positive thing to say about the Progress Party's position is that it is not the self-benefit of the voters who are the driving force in the position of the party. Selection studies show that the lot has a strong element of choice with relatively low formal education and low incomes. And in a future society where we have to pay for the school, it can easily be these groups that become losers when a person weakens the public free school. I also understand that the Left is in favour of amendment of the law. The left has evolved from being an environmental party to becoming a liberalist competitive party, interested in entrusting tasks to private actors. What I do not understand in this matter is the Christian People's Party's position. I have felt that the Christian People's Party has been a real defender of public school. The last national meeting was probably also involved in drawing and strengthening this picture. That parts of the party have felt that Christianity has not been given the place it should have in public school, I take note. But today's private school law allows you to set up the kind of schools as an alternative to the public school, so I just don't understand why it's important for the Christian People's Party to open the doors so that it's going to be free for all actors to apply to establish a private school, when we have a private school law that, as I understand, has previously met the need of parts of the Christian People's Party electors. It is important to be concerned with quality in school, as the Council of State clearly is. I don't doubt her commitment to quality in public school. But how do we promote this quality? Governments obviously believe in competition, increased competition, and that it should contribute to promoting quality. Increased competition between public schools through publication of characters, etc. shall contribute to promoting the quality of public schools. In addition, she will have several private schools to stimulate increased competition. I don't think it's competition that will increase quality, precisely because this is both expensive and demanding, and it undermines the most basic thing we have, namely a common public school as a common meeting place for all children. It is also not possible to develop two networks of schools across the country. What we see from Sweden is that private schools become an alternative in urban areas. In our country, it is mainly in Oslo that it is relevant to establish more private schools, many private schools, as an alternative to public schools. It is an expensive education system the government parties together with the Progress Party are now adding up, and it is the municipalities that have to pay the valid. The system is now, and as it gets reinforced, the municipalities are getting benefits from their framework grants. This is not new, fresh money that is being ploughed into our education system, this is money that is being taken from the municipalities through the framework grant. It is true, as has been said, that it is not drawn as much from the municipalities as it is from the private schools, but in a matter that we also have to deal with in the committee, it is suggested to increase it in terms of municipalities. It is underlined that it will not reach the same level as the grant to private schools, but it will be increased during a five-year period. And it's pretty obvious to everyone that when municipalities are drawn for the grant to private schools, this will help to weaken the economy of public schools. It should worry more than SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party. It is also important to be aware that municipalities need to be prepared to meet, if necessary, the situation in which a private school is closed or students are expelled from a private school. It is quite incredible that a provision should be included in the law – it is clearly the main issue of the Advance Party – that if parents cannot cover their own payments for a period of time, it can be decided that these students should be expelled from the private school. When they're to be thrown out of there, we know who's obliged to accept them – it's the public school. Therefore, the public school must also have a standby; it must have an offer of student places to stand there pending possible expulsion from private school. The municipalities, which have a responsibility for providing education for all children, have to run a school that is significantly more expensive than they could initially if they could plan, facilitate and strengthen the public school, precisely because they have to have an offer for everyone and be prepared to receive students who, for various reasons, are not allowed to go further in private school. What also surprises me, and which should surprise more, or at least make more considerations, is that the way to finance private schools is through a rule-based funding, which means that at the moment you have established a school, the state is ready to finance it. There is no budgetary framework to govern the establishment of private schools. It's one of the few areas where we can't refer to the budget framework, but where we're told to give the money because it's going to be established private schools. This part of our education system should also be budget-driven. We can't say to a municipality that has problems financing its public school, that this is where you get more money, because it's budget-driven. Private schools, on the other hand, are governed, and there we only have to give the money to when a school is established and when a school is approved. This is a strange system, an incredible system, that more people should be concerned about. For us, it is important to call about public school, defend public school and make it better. The evaluation reports submitted in connection with the L97 show that there is a great deal to be taken into account. Much needs to be done to improve public schools. It's not as bad as the picture we've been given of the international comparative studies. But there's a need to strengthen public school, and if we're going to strengthen it, we need to spend more money. We can't reduce the resource situation, as we've seen in recent years. Making sure the public school, making a good public school, an exciting public school, a public school that has the diversity we want, is and should be a priority task for everyone, for after all, most of the kids in this school go. That's not what's happening with the law decision that's being made today. SV was also prepared to vote in favour of the change in § 3-5, although we were initially prepared to vote against the whole law. We see that there have been some good arguments. And when that was wrong, it was about to happen that the Progress Party was initially not prepared to take responsibility for these students, we were prepared to support the proposal. Now it's not necessary, because now it's going to be a majority for this, because the Progress Party has changed its position. Arne Sortevik said the private schools are the best. He built it on a study that was published in Dagbladet the other day. After all, there was a need for private schools, with a small number of students, with less student distribution, not to get out a little better in terms of average characteristics – the average character in public schools was 4.5, and the average character in private schools was 4.8, or around. It should just be missing that it didn't work out like this when we look at the number of students in public school compared to the number in private school. But as I said, there are lots of challenges to public school, lots of things to solve. We in SV believe that is what should be given priority, precisely to make that school the best possible. The fact that we have not written anything about minority language students in the setting, as was said in the post to Trine Skei Grande, is a positive mistake! We have just said that the law we are going to adopt, as we are proposing, should also have a clause on minority language pupils.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e318	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e321	This entry was not a strange entry. On the contrary, it was as expected! Even the welfare community is now on the decline. Since SV has for many years been very skeptical and negative to private schools, especially life schools, SV now supports current private school law. Does this mean that SV is now more concerned with maintaining and supporting life-vision schools than schools with professional quality as their aim? And further, does it also mean that SV will support private schools financially, as the Stortinget has decided, or is it still in favour of such a poor state aid scheme that a pressurizes the segregation of the students that one says you are against? And finally, the SV programme wants the state to take over the private schools. Why is it not promoted as a proposal when we have the matter up?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e332	After all, we record that it is not a majority for our primary position. There are many people who should take note of it. There is no majority today for our proposal, as we have programmed this. We have then chosen to compromise on what we initially thought was possible, namely that the Christian People's Party was interested in supporting a proposal from us – a proposal that would meet their needs and that we could at least live with. I guess we see that we can't gather all the resources in public school, get to an even better public school, so it'll be a good alternative for everyone. That is why we have said that the compromise we see for ourselves could be – and we had of course hoped for a majority in favour of this – to take on the basis of today's private school law and make it better in some important areas, which we have pointed out in our remarks and in our proposal, but which are being downgraded. – That is the simple reason why we are willing to compromise with those who have previously defended today’s private school law, even though we would ideally wish that we could gather all the children in public school and do it even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e339	The President recalls that we have changed the Rules of Procedure recently, and that the time for a reply is now one minute – and he asks the representatives to stay until then.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e342	The representative Reikvam did the artwork that in 15 minutes he did not use one word to define SV's policy. The Free School Act is an attack on public school – and thus sauna! SV justifies his attacks in horror descriptions and adventures. In Denmark, users have been able to choose freely for very many years. Denmark has no worse learning outcomes than us, they have free establishment, parental supervision and many students with immigrant backgrounds. What, in SV's opinion, is wrong with Danish parents reaching 42 pst. Do different schools consider for their children?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e349	This article helps to underline what I tried to start with, namely, that this is an ideological battle. These are ideological dividing lines that we now see clearly. What goes on establishing, having a good, common public school that is for all children, with great variety and with great diversity, that's what we're concerned about. We are absolutely sure that this is the best way to use resources. We are absolutely sure that this is the best way to take care of the valuable things in our society: that we have a homogeneous society, that we have a common reference framework, that we have common experiences – and thus manage to keep this society together in a good and proper way. That's our starting point. That's what's our goal, as well as that school is an important prerequisite for a good welfare society. It should be reasonably clear that here's the ideological contradictions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e356	The representative Rikvam presents the matter as an ideological distinction and a frontal attack at public school. The Christian People's Party disagrees with that description of reality. It'll be a cross of thought for me when the representative Rekovam tries to free the Christian People's Party, when we know that SV has been the ones who have combated the private school law by, among other things. to propose cuts in grants and thus to make the primary schools a place for the rich children. It will be a cross of thought for me that the representative Reikvam has not seen the many who have felt the resistance to the principle of free school and parental rights as a threat, and who have experienced the political discretion as random and not predictable. For the Christian People's Party, there is no contradiction between a strong public school and possibilities for fresh schools. My question to SV is: Can SV see that there is no difference? If they think it's a contradiction, how can they defend today's private school law? Are the principles just a volume issue for the proportion of high school students?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e365	With today's private school law, we've kept a pretty stable level of private schools over very many years. It's located somewhere between 1 and 2 pst. We accept that it can be there. If we had been able to keep today's private school law, we don't see that it would open up to a ‘leap’, as someone has called it, that in 2004, we are ready, as Trine Skei Grande said, to establish many new private schools. We've kept it under a certain control. There have been limitations on who has been able to establish private schools. Our principal position stands firm – to all intents and purposes. We don't see the need for private schools. We see the need for a good public school where most children go. What can now happen – we're not going to paint the damn wall – is that we can get a development with a dramatic increase, cf. Stockholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e374	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e377	The basic principle of Norwegian school legislation is parental responsibility for the education and training of their children. The school shall help the parents in this work. Therefore, the Training Act stresses that all children are entitled to training and that the school, in cooperation with the home, should train the child for the benefit of people. Based on this basic view of parental responsibility, we leave the home-school collaboration at school, and we give the parental right concrete content. Another central perspective is the school’s task as a knowledge intermediary and a social institution. School is important for giving children and young people an identity and equipping them for life and work. The school has such a social role in building cooperation and community. The school is a very important arena for learning skills, but also for exercising ability for tolerance and self-intelligence. The school conveys our common culture and cultural heritage, and in Norway it is also based on the human view we find in our Christian and humanistic cultural heritage, namely the inviolable value of man. It's a strength for our society that we have a school where we meet students from all social and cultural levels. At the same time, we have a community school that builds up local communities. Through a national school policy, we provide the school with a common content to enable students to meet in the best possible way in the future. Today's proposal for free school law, for which the Christian People's Party will vote, is based on the principle of parental rights. It is enshrined in international conventions and is thus part of human rights law. The Christian People's Party believes that there is no contradiction between working for a strong public school and ensuring parents the right to choose another training for their children in line with their own ideals and wishes for the child's education. Therefore, the Christian People's Party has always been a faithful defender of the free school mind, and the party's spokesmen were instigators for the adoption of today's private school law from 1985. The law of free school that we are to adopt today is based on the same ideological basis, parental law. It is primarily a protection of minority rights, because it permits and allows training to be filled with content different from that provided by the public school. The Free School Act is such a democratization of the school, no privatisation. The idea of free schooling and the right of parents to choose training for their children has been politically disputed in Norway, and is so today. The Christian People's Party believes that today's private school law has built on very good principles of parents' right to determine the purpose of the training. This is how the Christian People's Party sees the primary schools as a complement to the public school, and we defend their right to stand up with their peculiarity and diversity. The Cooperation Government's Sem Declaration states that we want to simplify the law and process the applications. An important objective is to give parents greater predictability of having their rights fulfilled. Experience has shown us that the different political regimes in the department have given different opportunities for parents to start fresh schools. In particular, this has hit incubators on a religious basis. But it has also been difficult to accept alternative educational platforms. Here we well remember the resistance of Gudmund Hernes and the Workers' Party to montessori schools. When the Christian People's Party is involved in expanding the basis for setting up health schools, it is because the demand for alternative pedagogics seems to be becoming increasingly difficult to meet. This is linked to an increasing educational diversity in public schools. As a result, the basis for this purpose is removed. At the same time, experience both from our own country and from other countries shows that it is often the primary schools that are capable of renewing school education. So it's interesting now that the involved schoolwoman Mosse Jørgensen wants to start a free school in recognition that the new pedagogics are difficult to realize in public school. Among other things, in the Christian People's Party we have concluded that extending the basis of approvals to both purpose and quality. Studies show that the quality of training in our health schools today does not stand back for public schools. I am therefore not afraid of a quality requirement that says that schools need to have training plans that are ‘good for’ public schools. Of course, this must not prevent independent schools from having more ambitious objectives in their curricula than are consistent. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee in this regard emphasises the freedom of education for primary schools as a fundamental principle and that recognition practices must be based on this principle. This is important for those schools that want to stand up with special characteristics and a clear alternative content in relation to public schools. Freedom of education is directly linked to the principles of parental law. When we focus on quality requirements for approval, we also need to follow-up with good professional supervision of training. Here we need good arrangements based on professionalism and respect for the peculiarity of the school. The Christian People's Party is in the majority who asks the Government to come back with proposals for organisational form for the recognition and supervision of independent schools. In this, the Christian People's Party adds that the supervision of schools takes place in the same way as the supervision of public schools. Authorisation must be based on the law, while the practice of the law must be added to the administration in accordance with adopted guidelines. The Government aims to add this to the director of education at the county, and his independence will be strengthened by linking the directors of education to a directorate of education. In addition, independent school supervision seems unnecessary. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to ensure that the schools we have today continue to receive grants for their operations. At one point, the Government’s proposal was too poor, and in the case of health schools for disabled people – so-called rule 1 and rule 2 schools. These are schools that provide an organized offer to students with special training needs and which are a good offer to the weakest students. The government raised unnecessary concerns about the financing of these schools, and I am pleased that the majority is stuck on statutory grants in new § 6-4. This provides the necessary basis for maintaining these school services. The Christian People's Party also wants to provide minority language students with the opportunity for Norwegian education in line with public school students. Norwegian training is important to integrate our new countrymen into our society. It was disappointing that the Progress Party did not see this in committee work. It is all the more gratifying that they will now vote in favour of the proposal for sections 3 to 5, which provide grants for such special education in the colleges. Much of the resistance to the law has gone to the danger of commercial schools. The Christian People's Party has always said that we do not want such schools. We believe government grants should be spent on training and on students, not on giving profits or dividends to the school owners. The government has submitted proposals in Ot.prp. No 80 that will take care of this. The State contribution enables the civil sector to contribute to the management of societal tasks. We need idealism in the civil sector to create a better society. The level of grants is based on similar costs in public schools. With a fair share of school money, we make it possible for all parents to realise parental rights. Odelstinget will later have the opportunity to discuss the grant system, but I can already state that the Government and the Christian People's Party are not opening up commercial schooling. At the same time as a new free school law, the Christian People's Party will work for a strong public school. We consider the colleges a supplement to the public school. When applying for the approval of health schools, municipalities shall give their opinion on the possible consequences for the public school, but the municipalities shall not have a veto right. There is a judgement here, which in some specific cases may affect the application procedure. With this new law, we can expect an increase in the number of high school students. I do not think, however, that, unlike the representative of Mr Reikvam, it will be dramatic. The best thing we can do to get parents and children to quit public school is not to prevent health schools, but to create a strong and committed community school. This requires attention and resources. Municipalities must have a better economy and a freer framework. We have to be able to create a strong public school while we have fresh schools. Together, these schools can increase pedagogical diversity and interact with each other in a mutually developing way. This is the experience Sweden has done, and I hope that the corresponding thing will also happen in Norway. It will provide a better school for students.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e408	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e411	There are no limits to how hot the defence representative Lyngstad has for the new law. It is based on parental rights, it ensures democratisation, and it is necessary for the renewal of pedagogics. If it really is, my first question will be to the representative Lyngstad: why in the world didn't this bill come when the Christian People's Party itself sat with the Minister of Education? When Lilletun was the Council of State, he said on the contrary that he disagreed with that kind of policy, and the Christian People's Party consistently opposed that kind of proposal in the Stortinget. Perhaps what Reidar Lie from More and Romesdal, delegate to the Christian People's Party national meeting, says: «We have had both Kjell Magne Bondevik and Jon Lilletun as school councils, and had a clear and good school policy. Now it's the Right School Policy implemented by the government, while the KrF gets blamed. I was shocked when I read The Right School Political Manifesto in 1999, but now the manifesto is soon completed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e423	The representative might ask why we didn't do this during the State Council of Jon Lilletun. Well, one answer might be that after that time we experienced Trond Giske as the Council of State. Another answer may be that we then gained the experience that it was necessary to simplify the law in order to ensure a predictable approval of the post-school application and thus give parents the opportunity to comply with their parental rights. Now, what we've done is we've done this simplification. I'd like to admit that we've gone into political compromises here to get a majority for such simplification. But it is based on the same principles of parental rights, and I do not experience this at all as a strong threat to public school. I believe that we are able to combine bets in a strong public school with a new law of free school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e430	I sincerely hope that there are political choices behind what the Christian People's Party has done, and not the person Trond Giske – that these are conscious political choices on the part of the Christian People's Party. Arne Lyngstad started his post by talking hot about the public school, with a lot of resources and all of this, so it can do a good and real job, and he emphasizes this time and time again. I have now shown how there has been a decline in the resources of the public school in the period of the Christian People's Party in government. As I said before, this evil will from municipal politicians is not the result of it, it is the starvation of the municipalities that is doing this, and it should worry Arne Lyngstad in a completely different way than it is today. He says he believes in a strong public school with a lot of resources, and then we have parallel to this a private school. My question to Arne Lyngstad is simply: if we get a development like in Stockholm, up to 14 pst. by the students go to private schools, is this a development that the Christian People's Party thinks is good, and is this something they want to welcome?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e439	Of course, it is also a political choice. In my post I pointed out two: this with a lack of predictability is one; the other is the difficult criterion of alternative pedagogics. The Christian People's Party wants to fight for public school. But we don't do that by fighting the law of high school. We do this by fighting for local authorities and the school sector to have the resources and skills to provide students with a good offer. That's what needs to be in focus. It's going to be completely wrong when the minority makes the two percentages, or the x number of percentages in addition that can come as a result of the law on high school leave, into the big threat to public school. That's not where it is. I have never understood why the minority has made it such a big problem that some, a minority, choose something other than the public offer. But we have to fight for the public offer, and we do that by securing resources and competences. And there can be SV, the Workers' Party and the government parties stand together.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e446	Listening to contributions from the party leadership at the Christian People's Party national meeting, one could get the impression that the Christian People's Party is little enthusiastic about this law revolution and has strong reservations. I assume that the representative Lyngstad can cancel such impressions. Then I have a question about how the Christian People's Party actually balances its party views with regard to parental mandate and parental rights on the one hand and the view of private schools as a complement to the public school on the other. But I have actually received the answer in the main post of the representative Lyngstad. I interpret him so that the word 'addition' is replaced by 'alternatives', which we in the Progress Party think is a good solution. I could actually interpret him even further. When he correctly describes the very important aspect of post-secondary education as a renewal of the education offer and of the school offer, the word ‘addition’ could actually be replaced by ‘renewal’.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e453	It is true that in the Christian People's Party there has been a debate on the law of free school, and much of it has been linked to the question of whether the municipalities have the opportunity to maintain primary schools. But I don't think – and the majority also said at the Christian People's Party national meeting – that the law on free schooling will be a threat to the branch schools. So it's right that we look at the colleges as a supplement, simply because we think that the majority of Norwegian children will still go to public school, because we have a community school, a school that's localized to the community. All experience from other countries also shows that public schools are selected. The main instrument for building the knowledge society will be the public school. And then the high school supplement that represents either an alternative or another way to run the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e460	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e463	Of course, it's the Rune Kjällaa, who is our member of the education committee, who should have stood here, but he's a member of the Lamentations. The centre party wants a good public school with room for everyone, regardless of social dividing lines, functional level, ethnic background and trust. We have always supported Kjell Bondevik's private school law. In respect for parents' right to choose training, we will keep up the private sphere, and we will improve the promises in areas that strengthen students' rights, cf. joint proposals from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party. The laws that seem to be signed today are fundamentally different from the private sphere. The fundamental difference is that the requirement for purpose has been removed. This means that one can create a school identical to and in competition with the public school. Yes, in fact, the Government Party and Advance Party settings argue that this will make the public school better. There is, of course, a fundamental difference in relation to the private sector, as it currently manages parental rights. Far from it, the school is just as good today. But it is not possible to explain it by changing the law, when it is actually the municipality that is responsible for most schools today. And so it's a tight local economy that's a lot of the cause of the situation that is. Technical Calculation Committee has recently provided an overview of the situation in the municipalities as it appeared in 2002. It tells us that over the last two years, the local authorities have experienced a marked deterioration in the economic situation. They have a debt of between 70 and 80 billion dollars to bear. In fact, the municipalities' own organisation asked for $6 billion more for 2003 than the government proposed. Then there is nothing else to expect than that it will be reported to be cut in the school. It's actually like 55 pst. of the municipalities is required to cut in such a vulnerable area. That's why we see that the schools are being laid down and support hours are being removed. For those who want a good and exciting common public school, it would be fundamental to work for a strengthened community economy instead of what we now see, a downsizing of many municipalities, even a proposal that follows this law, which means that funding should be strengthened when it comes to alternative schools. Then one can only get one final result, and it's undermining the public school. There's a lot of concern expressed in relation to what's happening right now. Professor Asbjørn Tveiten of the Norwegian Academy of Teachers expresses his disquiet in the newspaper Our Country today. He's a hot defender of today's private school law, and he says that in relation to the laws that now lie leading from the plural,'resisting with conflicting feelings'. He says that ‘I am skeptical of the idea that the quality of the school should be raised through competition. That thought has come from the government. There is so much, especially in the children's column, that it is not easy to measure and so compared from school to school. It can lead to an overemphasis on performance rather than other factors that are important for creating a good school". It means that if he were to choose, Asbjørn Tveiten would appeal to what the plural does today, but he emphasizes very strongly: ‘There must be greater freedom for local adaptation within the public school. The development of the public school will... be involved in determining how many freshly we get according to the new law». Editor Erling Rimehaug says in an article in our country today: ‘When free competition is opened up in school, there is a lot of talk that private schools will leave with the victor and get the best pupils and the most resource-intensive parents. Such a development towards a new classroom would be a setback for the thinking behind the free school movement and Kjell Bondevik's private school law.» I have an interest in listening to the debate today. I have to say, I'm not surprised by the Progress Party. They represent what they have for a long time. It is from our point of view to deplore that they are now supported by the Christian People's Party, with which we have been associated before about another school policy. I'm not surprised at Right either. But listening to Arne Lyngstad today is listening to an article that defends a completely different law than the Kjell Bondevik and the Christian People's Party once fought. It's also listening to a completely different post than what we saw from Jon Lilletun and his strong commitment as a government council to secure a good public school, where private schools would be a valuable supplement. The central party has not had the same turmoil as the Labour Party and SV in relation to the recent developments when it comes to creating freshly according to today's law, even though we have had our discussions as well. We decided in time in the new group that we would be on the law of the day. We found it very difficult what's going on. There's something more to it than opening up competition, even in this field. There is something about the common platform that most of our children have now had the opportunity to meet, which is now at risk of being broken down. We've defended until now that there should be an opening for those who strongly desired an alternative from the point of view of life or for other reasons. Then, in the last few days, the Right and Left have profiled themselves as strong fans of local people's rule. If there's any place where there's involvement in the local elected bodies, it's in the school sector. We are very surprised at what is now said in the setting of these two parties in this field, followed by both the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. Here, local democracy is actually set aside, parental rights are stifled so far that the municipalities should not have the possibility to say yes or no. It is correctly clarified that they should have the ability to speak – and nothing more. We can't trivialize what's happening now when it's about the closure of crossroads and the creation of alternative schools so far. There is not a strong desire on the part of many parents locally about alternative pedagogics that is the leading thing here – in fact, it is the pedigree of Norwegian municipalities. And so it is that the Christian People's Party of all parties, on the one hand, says from this pulpit that they want to fight for more money for the municipalities, and on the other hand they are clearly opening up to competition in such an important field.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e502	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e505	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa concentrated a lot on two points – municipal economy and current law. In the case of local economy, there must be a basis for saying that 2 pst. interest reduction, which we have had since the adoption of the State budget, means more for the municipal sector than the increases proposed by the Centre Party. In the case of current private school law, the member of the Centre Party refers to the programme of the Centre Party in its comments, where the Party wishes to continue the requirement that private schools have an ‘alternative purpose’. In the programme, there are only private schools based on alternative pedagogics. Does this mean that the Center Party is against life-vision schools, or does it mean that the Center Party's programme – I was saying – is not comprehensive and complementary at this point either?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e513	It's very good now to find out what an interest rate reduction means for municipalities in relation to money in the cash register. I've had a sense that the right at that point has misunderstood quite thoroughly. In fact, 6 billion more to the municipalities next year would lead to a completely different possibility of strengthening both school and old age care and other important tasks than a reduction in interest rates, where the effects are actually uncertain, because many municipalities have fixed interest rates. So to the question of our program. After the debate we had at our national meeting when this program was established, we had a discussion when we met in the fall, the first autumn after the elections, about how this should be handled further, and we agreed that we are safe on today's private school law, we are not making new proposals. So that's why our attitude is the same as it has been before.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e520	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e523	It is a cross-thinking that the Council of State in the public debate has still argued for the need for a strong and coherent strategy for quality development in school, while its department sends out a swarm of amendments that come a little now and a little then. There are fragmented and little structured school policies of that kind. Major school policy changes are this spring promoted by the Government. Similar proposals are made in different propositions. Unfortunately, the Right’s school effort appears to be both fragmented and a little confusing. In addition, this leads to things being taken out of context, both parents and teachers having problems in getting an overview of the change regime, the debate going on, and it becomes unnecessarily complicated to see the school reforms in the context. Last week I attended one of the National Education Association's annual meetings. ==References== 130 pieces – pedagogical staff – attended. It's a shame to say that they were cheering about the government's quality effort in school. The proposal for private school law was met with strong headshaking. It was good to experience how these pedagogical staff showed solidarity and supported the opinions of the Joint Organisation of Disabled Persons, where they warned that the proposed Private Schools Act leads to further impoverishment and a reduction in public school spending. It is also worth noting that, in its opinion, the Joint Organisation of Disabilities writes that the legislative proposal does not sufficiently respect non-discriminatory practices. We want to follow developments in private schools carefully from the Workers' Party to ensure that the interests of disabled people are properly protected. Another interesting question in this debate: We are constantly referring to our neighbouring countries, and the Council of State has innumerably used the PISA survey to highlight Finland as a school example of successful school practices and policies. That's right. Finland has succeeded with most of it on the school page. They have taken simple steps to increase reading skills and increased learning ability. And Finland has done one more thing: Finland has invested in public schools – they have invested a lot, they have committed offensively, and they have given the public school good working conditions. Finland has invested in public schools and won. In Finland, there are virtually no private schools. They have a public school, and it's the best in the world. That's how the finders did it. Unfortunately, in Norway, we are going the wrong way. We're going in the opposite direction. The government has now opened up the way for all types of private school solutions, while the government is impoverishing the local government sector. The government here takes two grips that both weaken the public school. Students should be distributed and fragmented according to geographical, economic and character criteria – where you live, how rich your mother and father are, or your character. It's sad to see that the Christian People's Party will not participate in and stand up for the public school. It is sad to see that the Christian People's Party national meeting said goodbye to the public school and would not stand out as its defender in the competition between public and private bets. In this case, I will end by pointing out the inconsistency that while the Quality Committee in these days writes its conclusions for better quality in Norwegian school, a majority at Stortinget tonight will decide what quality is. I am sorry that the Government will not wait for the Quality Committee to decide that you will not wait until the Quality Committee has concluded. Finally, I address the proposal from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e545	The representative Eva M. Nielsen has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e548	There are four important reasons why we want to replace the private school law with a new law on independent schools. Firstly, existing law has become very difficult to practice, and it is not practiced in a good way. With the diversity that now characterises public schools, the concept of ‘alternative education’ has become difficult to define. A montessori school does not differ significantly from many public schools today. In addition, the law provides such a great deal of political discretion that frequent changes of government create legal uncertainty and unforeseeability for citizens, which often have to have a very long planning horizon. Secondly, we want to make the parental right real for everyone. We don't have compulsory schooling in Norway. The private sector is not under-utilisation by the State. It's not the state that owns our children. Everyone has the right to choose an alternative school for their children, but in practice this right does not apply to everyone. Today, there are three main groups who can practice their parental rights, namely those who are rich enough to pay for a privately funded and/or commercial school, those who want a religious/ethical school, and those who want a so-called alternative pedagogy. With the new law, which is really a grant law, all parents will be equal. Thirdly, we believe that freedom of choice in itself is positive, but freedom of choice must be as equal as possible to everyone and not freedom at the expense of others. That is why the conditions of freedom of choice are important. Among the conditions we set is that the excess is to be limited, that no benefits are to be taken out of school, and that the school cannot freely choose which students they are taking in. Fourth, we believe freedom of choice and diversity will provide the basis for better quality in school because it enhances the awareness of tasks, purposes, users and alternative ways of solving problems. The main priority of the government's school policy is to improve the quality of public schools. A certain element of fresh oils is also one, but far from the main, instrument of this work, because it can promote quality work in all schools. Whether this is a major or a small reform can be discussed. Even I believe that it is a fundamentally important reform, but a reform that will hardly lead to a large number of parents choosing a boarding school for their children. There are several reasons why I don't think so. However, in other countries, which often have much greater freedom of choice than Norway, a large majority of secondary schools choose, about half of them. 90 pst. In Sweden, the majority of those who have chosen the secondary school state that this is an active choice. The Training Act gives everyone the right to choose the secondary school, and that's a provision we want to keep. Most people are satisfied with their secondary school, and the aim of our school policy work is to make more people happy, both with their learning environment and with their learning outcomes, among others. by increasing their knowledge and transparency of the school and greater opportunities to influence and engage actively in their school. In addition, it is demanding to establish a post-secondary school. Experience takes several years and a lot of hard work. Moreover, with the new law, the quality and commitment requirements for society, parents and students will become even clearer than they are today. Moreover, unlike in Sweden, there is no economic incentive to establish a free school in Norway, rather on the contrary. It is therefore necessary to wish to make a significant voluntary effort to start a school, which is then obliged to take in the students who sign up. In the public debate, very strong words and expressions have been used about what this law will lead to, such as: the fall of the single school, national schools, strong social segregation, student and teacher mobility from municipal schools, etc. Let me comment on some of these statements. Firstly, there is already social and ethnic segregation in Norwegian schools, especially in the big cities, because the residence segregated government leads to school segregation as a result of the secondary school principle. The segregation is often continued into school, including: in the allocation of pupils by class and, unfortunately, also through the way some pupils are taken into special education. But there is no evidence that a certain element of fresh oils leads to increased social and ethnic segregation. In Norway, more often than not, there are some indications of the opposite. Parents state that an important reason for choosing a high school is that they want a less homogeneous student environment. Secondly, there are considerable differences between sexes, pupils and classes in Norway. Such differences can never be fully eliminated, but differences in Norway are so much greater than, for example, those in the United Kingdom. in Sweden and Finland, it is obvious that our major challenge is to adapt to training. The term ‘adapted training’ really means ‘equivalent training’, which in turn means that training must be varied, diverse and differentiated — not equal. The evaluation of Reform 97 may indicate that training is too equal and not sufficiently diverse. A certain element of fresh oils may contribute to more custom-made training for all. Thirdly, from what we know today about colleges, there is also nothing to suggest that they are increasing economic segregation. There is a higher proportion of parents with low incomes in Norwegian schools than in public schools, and teachers serve less than in municipal schools. In Sweden, there are no significant income differences between high school parents and others. The reason, of course, is that the law puts a roof on the prostheses, which make them consistently low. In principle, there is nothing to prevent them from getting even lower, as is now the case with kindergartens. In any case, no one steals anything from public school. A student cannot go to more than one school at a time, and everyone has paid taxes and should be able to benefit from the same tax-funded benefits, especially when they are as important as the school. Of course, in all school systems there is a risk that most school - interested parents are engaged and make active choices for their children. They don't have to be rich, white, well-situated and well-trained, as many take for granted. They can simply be good and interested parents. We don't see that in public school at all. Some parents are more eager to attend parental meetings, participate in school cooperation bodies, help with homework, hard work, etc. other. If you want to erase such differences, a logical conclusion could be that you eliminated home school cooperation. I still think there's a broad consensus that that's not the way to go. Instead, those we formally and really need to facilitate an even better home school collaboration, encourage more people to participate and at the same time hope and believe – as I actually do – that parents who get engaged do it for the whole school community and not just for their own child. The Free School Act can make it more demanding to be a municipal school owner. In this case, only one of several measures implemented by the Government will make ownership more demanding. We want greater demands to be made on municipalities, and they need to be more involved in school development, content, learning environment and working environment than they are at present. The establishment of fresh oils may include, inter alia: make it more difficult to plan for municipalities, and therefore we continue to give them influence in the authorisation process and a fairer funding system for schools. But we don't give them any veto rights, because, after all, it's the citizens and not the administration that's supposed to benefit from fundamental rights. The welfare of the municipalities cannot override the right of parents to choose. Today, approx. 1.8 pst. of primary school students in Norway in private schools. In Sweden, the proportion is 5–6 pst, in Denmark approximately. 12 pst. and in the Netherlands approx. 70 pst. Other countries with high levels of private and commercial schools are not relevant to comparison. However, even those countries that have tax-funded health schools do not provide us with an answer to how the number of students in primary schools will develop in Norway. All countries have, among other things: different legislation and different traditions. In my opinion, however, it is likely that the number of students in fresh schools in Norway will increase both with our current law and with the new law. In an open knowledge society, people don't let themselves be pushed into solutions that others have chosen for them, and I don't think people think politicians always know what's best for them. Nevertheless, I think the increase in the number of students will be very limited, as I have already explained. The choice itself is both fundamental and psychologically important for many. But that doesn't necessarily mean that you actually pick something else. Instead, increasing diversity and transparency about quality and opportunities to choose can provide the basis for increased involvement and interest in public schools, which will benefit all schools and students.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e580	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e583	I think I'll start by congratulating the Council of State on the day. It is remarkable that the Council of State has made the Christian People's Party go as far as they have done. At least through its reign, the Council of State has helped to contribute to the loss of the credibility of the Christian People's Party in school policy. But I want to challenge the Council of State on the actual situation in the municipalities. A student can only go to one school, says the Council of State, so this is not a problem. But the situation is that we are now adding up to an actual earmarking of money for children in private schools, while children in public schools are being hit by actual cuts. We have repeatedly referred today to a study that KS has done, which shows that there may be a situation where 55 pst. of the municipalities cutting at primary school. I will – very briefly – come to my question: How can this help to raise the quality of public schools? Does this not mean only a systematic decline in public school? And then the parents in the future will look for private solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e592	I'm not going to interfere so much with the attacks on the Christian People's Party. But I want to say it this way: the values you have to recognize are whether you have tolerance, and what you have to try on is whether you also recognize that others can have values other than yourself. I think it's symptomatic that the opposition here is asking the Christian People's Party why they want to let others go, those who have met their own needs. I asked the management of the Steinerskoleverbund: why are you in favour of this law, because you are already approved under the present law? And then they say, well, we mean that rock school education is the best thing, but we recognize that other parents can have different opinions. It's on the type of tolerance to test. Students cannot attend more than one school at a time. It is clear that the subsidy that private schools receive is less than what goes to public school. Ergo means that you don't count the public school for anything; the money follows in the way that the student does. But we have put forward proposals for a new funding system that is fairer and more equal, between the municipal schools and the free schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e601	When more people are free to set up independent schools, we will be able to assume that more children than today will choose such a school. The question of school kissing therefore needs a quick clarification. When will the Government do as promised in the Sem Declaration, and transfer responsibility for the total school kiss of primary school students to the municipalities to ensure that the skyscrapers are included in the assessment of changes in the school structure of each municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e606	It is quite right that the representative here said that school kissing is mentioned in several previous documents, including the Sem Declaration, and the transfer of responsibility to the municipalities, given that the municipalities contribute to pushing these costs away from them. There is now an investigation from Nordic research that does not automatically give the reasoning the right. I feel that I should study that investigation a little more thoroughly, before I get to Stortinget, but I would suggest that we can come back to Stortinget with an assessment of this with the cloud question, for example. in relation to the submission of the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e612	In this case, too, the Council of State has got its own way towards itself in important areas. In other cases, there has been a practice in which the Swedish Labour Party must defend the Council of State. In this case, unfortunately, we cannot do so. I partly agree with the Council of State – I do not imagine that there will be many private schools in the next few years. I don't think people are ready to set up private schools. So there I partly agree with her. The councils have a strong defense for the public school, and I'm glad that. But my question is: where does the limit go for the number of private schools, where will the Council say that this will be unfortunate? Because I guess she does, whose goal is to call the public school and defend the public school. I asked Arne Lyngstad from the Christian People's Party a question if he thinks it would be unfortunate if, for example, 14-15 pst. by the students go to private schools, as we see in Stockholm. Does the Council of State also consider that it would be unfortunate if we had such a large number of private schools, that at least this would help to weaken public schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e621	I don't think that the committee or my own has gone against me. I think improvements are being made in several areas. I have noticed that in the past, the representative Rikvam has actually mentioned some of the changes that the majority advocates, as improvements, and as something that you want to implement in the current private school law. I don't think you can connect any measure to the percentages, the number of schools or the number of classes. It is essential that as many students as possible receive equivalent training, that they have a good learning environment and a good learning outcomes. The size has decided that we should have a national quality assessment system. It shall include both public and fresh schools. We will then be able to follow developments a little more closely and take action where necessary. The crucial thing is what happens to the students. But I think you're underestimating the effect that there's no economic incentive in the law we're adopting today. You can refer to Sweden, but it is clear that there is a rather strong incentive in that it is possible to make commercial operations out of a school. It will not be possible in Norway to receive public support.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e628	The Council of State stressed the rights of parents. Today's private school law provides parents with the right to choose an alternative school to provide children with religious and moral education that is consistent with their over-interpretation and that also takes care of the requirement of the UN International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. It is close to claiming that the parental right that the state council is now defending is a free choice of school and has nothing to do with the parental right that once underpinned the creation of today's law. The council says that the municipality's woe and will not be able to override its parents' right to choose. But piercing down the municipalities can actually mean that parents have no choice; they have to get involved in a private school. What would the State Council do to avoid it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e635	This line I think is based on a misunderstanding. The right of parent under international conventions is not limited to the issue of religion. It's not. This is also why no one can refuse to start a private school in Norway today. It only requires a minimum degree of approval under the Training Act, so you can start a school. It can be privately funded, it can be commercial. What we are discussing today is which schools are going to receive public support, so that this parental right becomes real also for those who don't have a large wallet. So far, it has been for those who are engaged in religious and/or ethical schools and alternative pedagogics. We say that it should be possible for everyone – namely the grant. That is what we are discussing today. The parental right applies to anyone, anyone can start a school under international conventions. But that is not what we are discussing. We're discussing who's going to get a grant, and we want to expand it. I have to return the question to the opposition: why are only those who are concerned with religious alternatives and alternative pedagogics, who will be able to receive this grant from the public?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e644	I think the Council of State is doing a good job as the Council of Right-State. She implements right-wing policies, as in this case. In the past, the Council of State has responded to claims that having more than one private school does contribute to such doubts as to whether the public school is good enough and that there is no struggle for the public school and the necessary resources. But there must be some team in the claims when central politicians in the Christian People's Party would find that the party – I assume it is included Bondevik – is not only a party for private schools, but will also underline the defence and upgrading of the public school. There must be a reaction to the school-image Bondevik government with State Councillor Klemet at the head. I think it is alarming that the Prime Minister's own party must go out to correct the unwanted views of the priorities of the Government and the school councils. The allegations of the school policy of the Council of State are, in my view, not just malicious gossip from political opponents.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e653	I don't know what was the point of this line. I have read the statement the Christian People's Party adopted at its national meeting, and I can join in absolutely every word in that statement. It's a strong and good statement about the need to strengthen the public school, and that's what we use over 98 pst. of time on. I have a feeling that it's the opposition that's most concerned with these colleges and the 1.8 pst of the students that go there. In other words, when it comes to blackpainting the school, I have to say that I believe that Norwegian public school is good, and that it can measure itself with other school systems in very many countries. But we have some challenges, such as: is associated with major inequalities in school. But as argued here, against the law on high school, it is obviously based on a assumption that today there are a number of students from rich and resource-intensive families who are deeply dissatisfied with the public school, and who believe that a private school run with less money will be better, and that the parents will therefore disappear as soon as they get the opportunity to do so, and bring with them teachers who are willing to work for less pay, but work better. I don't have such a negative and pessimistic view, either at parents or at Norwegian school. I think it's much better than the assumptions that underlie these claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e660	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e663	The scourge of democracy, or the tyranny of the majority, was well lit by the representative Bekkelem Orheim of the Workers' Party earlier today. Furthermore, it is evident from the SV's view that human rights must be governed by the ideology of individual parties. The history of the private school law starts in 1969, the law is revised in 1970, 1985, 1998 and at the latest when examining today's proposition. Historically, it was the government that put Borten in charge when the first private school law was passed. But it is worth noting that when Bratteli took over power in the early 1970s, there was no revision. In the light of the lack of initiative of a government-managing working party, we must be able to assume that they were satisfied with the law and the state of things at the time. Furthermore, one might assume that the private school law saw today’s light to avoid Norwegian law coming into conflict with the 1966 UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. Later, this convention has moved to become Norwegian law. The representative of Frøiland was obviously concerned that parents have the right to opt out of public school. Article 13(3) of the Convention provides that the parties undertake to respect the freedom of parents and forgeters to opt out of the public school, provided that the schools meet any minimum education requirements laid down or approved by the State. Furthermore, paragraph 4 states that nothing in this Article must be interpreted as restricting the freedom of individuals or organisations to set up and operate educational institutions, provided that the principles set out in the first paragraph of this Article are respected and that the instruction given in such institutions complies with any minimum State requirements. None of this should create the big debates on ideological grounds, as we see today. Minimum requirements for e.g. learning outcomes do not exist. Everyone is talking about quality, but no party with government power has so far defined quality in relation to the individual student. We have the unit school, but I've never met the unit teacher or the unit student, so a unit quality can be a very big challenge. These requirements should, in the opinion of the Progress Party, have been incorporated into a quality assurance system and a follow-up to it, which is responsible for approval and control added to an independent body, for example. NOCUT. Decisions concerning the definition of quality in relation to the requirements of the user are important. Decisions on approval and verification of the quality adopted are of similar importance. Decision on an equivalent financial system where the money is triggered by the user would have protected the rights of students and parents in a sound manner. This is utopia in today's situation. With regard to § 3-5 ‘Special training for elephants from linguistic minorities’, it is also in this context that the Progress Party wants better training in Norwegian than has been the traditional ideology of the majority in Norway for too long. In our view, it will therefore be important to ensure this training through a State award linked to the individual student, thereby ensuring predictable and full funding for the student and the school selected. Only such government funding will provide the linguistic basis for good learning outcomes for these children and young people. Because the Progress Party, based on long experience, is of the opinion that Norwegian training for children with a minority background is not sufficiently predictable and that the learning outcomes are not good enough, we have promoted a proposal, no. 5, that measures to ensure better Norwegian knowledge of them are promoted as a matter of their own. It is regrettable that this good proposal does not get a majority in this round. For various reasons, there is no primary majority for any of the proposals submitted. This means that Catholic schools with many children from linguistic minorities will not receive funding for their specially organised Norwegian training. This is a good example of the fact that several parties should have felt a special responsibility for caring for them, without being shown in the vote or made clear in the debate. Multiplicity responsibility appears to be insurmountable for anyone who should have formed a majority. Where is the responsibility of the other parties in terms of multicultural societies or the desire to significantly increase labour migration? In order to avoid such an unworthy situation, the Progress Party has come to the conclusion that these children's woes and desires that we vote subsidiaryly for the proposals made by the government parties to §3-5, as the representative Sortevik said earlier today that we will do. Furthermore, it seems to have been confirmed that the Progress Party in this matter will oblige the colleges to have boards with users in majority. So this is not right. The Progress Party has a stated policy that all public schools should have independent, user-represented management boards in a majority capacity. There is a significant difference between ownership of public schools and private schools. It's us as citizens and users who are public, and then we have to be able to demand that users are in majority. When it comes to private schools, we want a strong user representation on the board of individual schools. To clarify this further, the Progress Party does not wish to determine the number of members of the individual Governing Board. It's up to the private school owner to adopt a number that gives a clear majority of the board of directors. However, the Progress Party finds it difficult to believe that a private owned school should be totally on collision courses with its users and customers. In the case of representation by directors of individual private schools, this is governed by other laws and regulations applicable in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e708	It is possible that some of us use too many words in this debate. But when the government makes a proposal for a law on high school, it's probably because it wants more private schools. It may be on a small, modest scale, but it may also be on a very large scale. In any case, there must be a goal for the Government to have a significant number of more pupils than today choosing private schools and to have a significant number of more parents do the same. What worries and concerns me and SV is: in many communities and especially in the big cities, the public school balances on a border where the standard is much lower than many parents want, and they feel that in these days it gets lower. Teachers are being told up – it's tightening up. Just in these areas it will be a market for private schools. And just in these areas, we can experience that it's moving two or three students from every class to a private school nearby. This means that the municipality will lose an amount for each student who moves from public school to a private school, and the parents will have to pay for it. Once again, public schools will receive less money in the long term — at the top of the restrictions that are now taking place. It costs nothing less to have a class of 21 students than to have a class of 24 students. And so goes the spiral. I think Kristin Clement is right in saying that it's not necessarily the richest parents who are going to choose a private school. We see, for example: how strongly parents want a nursery place for their children. Although it may cost a lot, some parents may give priority to paying school money in the $1,500 to $2,000 class rather than going on vacation — if it means a lot, and if the nearest public school is poor. What worries is the dissatisfaction with the public school that I experience among many parents, and the anxiety of the one that is many places – not because the standard is bad, but because it does not match what we expect to be top in the Norwegian school in 2003. This dissatisfaction is not a cry to be able to choose private school. There is a call to be able to choose the nearest public school with a good standard — not a strong desire to move your child out of it. If this is spreading more and more, you've experimented in some areas of the country where those who are most concerned about school will find the money they need to pay school money. At the same time, it will lead to a significant depletion of and disillusioned atmosphere in public schools. This is a development that will be terribly difficult to reverse. It's a big dilemma to participate in this debate and at the same time not paint the picture of the public school, because it's going very well there. I have even positive experiences with good, beautiful and very committed teachers in public schools, who have come to know and understand how to mobilize parents, and who, in this case too, should have – what to say – a reduction in numbers compared to marketing the public school. Nevertheless, it is necessary to alert this debate. It's SV's job to keep the good examples from public school. There are two things that can give us an effect where we can get bigger class distinctions in Norwegian school. One is the law adopted today, with the implications it can have for the economy of public schools. The second thing is, if the contraction and dissatisfaction in public schools happen in parallel, you're going to have two relationships that go the same way. Then you can get into the situation that in a few years you'll have a much bigger class distinction in Norwegian school than we've had in many years, and that's very bad. Research reports and other reports on the reform that allowed six-year-olds to enter school are presented in these days. And they show that the differences in Norwegian school are much larger than we thought, that many students perform much less than what you might initially think, and that especially minorities and boys feel that the school doesn't meet them. So we have a long way to go to have an equivalent school in Norway — where all students are taken from their backgrounds of experience. That should have been the starting point when we discuss the school of the future, and when we spend money on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e727	I have noticed that there has been a touching interest and concern for the Christian People's Party in this debate. I'll come back to that in a little while. I have also noticed with interest that the representative Rolf Rikvam has discovered that the time of ideology is not over. To that I would say, if it had not been the case, the Christian People's Party would not have had any justification in this Chamber. Of course, we are aware that we are founded on a clear ideological foundation that includes: the parent’s mandate is the overall social mandate in relation to the responsibility for child education. The Christian People's Party has always held the parent-fan high, and it is therefore not so strange that the Workers' Party and SV, which have a completely different starting point in this field, attack the Christian People's Party. On the contrary, it is quite expected. The Central Party is also very concerned about the Christian People's Party, not only in this matter, but in most of the cases we have had in recent debates. I must say that I am more concerned that the centre party is not more concerned with its own situation at the moment. The parents have a mission mandate in relation to the children. Any school, whether public or private, will only have a mandate derived from parents. In respect of parental rights, the Christian People's Party has been a champion of parents' freedom of choice in relation to child rearing. It's whether it's about kindergarten and cash support, or it's about the choice of school for the kids. It is right that the representative Karita Bekkemelm Orheim said: we are pleased that a minority of the parents are now being heard and given greater freedom to choose school for their children. Had the Workers' Party and SV had its will, this freedom of choice would have been a utopian today – based on the struggles we have had in the past in this area. Our school policy is ‘at full speed away from an inclusive school’, said the representative Karita Bekkemelm Orheim in his contribution. I think in many ways the cheese of distrust of the parents' choice for their children. It also gives a frightening picture of the Workers' Party's attitude to the boarding schools operated today. In the Christian People's Party, we have faith in both the diversity of public schools and the supplement that independent schools represent. It seems developing for the school system as a whole. The Christian People's Party has always been concerned with developing a strong and good public school, not least the debate at our national meeting underlined it. In Jon Lilletun's time as Minister of Church and Education, slogans such as «Let the Thousand Flowers Flowering» and «Let the Schools Free» were launched, and the current Minister continues. In a pluralistic and multicultural society, the A4 solution of the Workers' Party is, at my discretion, a phase out. The co-operation government has signalled that the local economy will improve in the coming years and that municipal freedom will also increase in the field of education. That means that the thousands of flowers will be allowed to bloom in public school as well. It was then claimed – to some extent rightly – that the municipalities have closed branch schools. But let me say it so that the law that we are now introducing will not contribute to an increase in this area, because this gives parents power in the form that the primary school is laid down, they can set up a boarding school. It will probably make any local government think before going to such a step. I myself have enjoyed going to public school, and I have had my three children in public school, and have had a great and good experience of it. But for my part, I can admit that real school time was a problem. On the other hand, I got the experience of coming to a free school, the National College, and experienced how I could flourish with the educational freedom that lay there. And we know that the high school has been involved in forming a picture of the development that has occurred in recent high school. Similarly, I hope that the boarding schools that we have today, and the boarding schools that will come, will help to outsource the course for development both in public schools and in private schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e753	The Labour Party believes that it is the public common school that provides the best basis for ensuring an equivalent training offer for children, irrespective of their economic, cultural or religious background. It is the primary school that is diversity, rather than fragmentation and the release of private alternatives. The Joint School is the main meeting place for children in a society characterised by major changes and major cultural differences. It is this that should have been our common agenda: how to maintain the common school and make it even better? And the tasks are in line, either in terms of content and quality in school, or in terms of securing resources for primary education. But the government, with the Right in the chair in the school area, has an ideological project that has been given priority, namely privatisation. It means more market and less community. The Clemet Council has, in many respects, underlined the weakness of public schools, although she from the pulpit here also said that we have a good school. But I think she's underlined the weakness, and I also think she's oversized it, for how else should anyone interpret statements from the Council of State that children are being sacrificed in the common school. The logic from there to several private schools is unclear to me. At the same time, the community economy is being strangled, so that the result is fewer teachers, the aggregation of classes, the cut-off of teaching hours and even the closure of schools. It is obvious that among parents, this creates uncertainty and undermines confidence in whether children really receive a good education. The answer comes from the Right and the Government: we need more private schools. Pedagogics are designed to increase competition and quality is what can be easily measured. Primary school becomes a market place with students – or rather their parents – as customers. As one warning wrote in a reading article, there is a difference between selling furniture and creating good people. I guess there's no experience to suggest that this will be a freedom of choice for everyone, not from a geographical or social point of view. I am not surprised that the Right is behind proposals for major private offerings in the field of school. That's a familiar point of view. State Secretary Bergesen has also admitted that it is a Right-wing proposal. However, I am particularly disappointed with the Christian People's Party, which has blessed this fanatic from the right which will involve a greater degree of sorting of students and creating problems for the municipal and public schools. It was not just a lack of information that the latter was underlined in the manifesto proposal for the national meeting of the Christian People's Party. It is also strange that this government, which regularly underlines the need to decentralise responsibility and authority in matters of setting up private schools, parks the municipal governance on the sideline. I have heard some of the reasons for setting up private schools. I asked if there was a comprehensive international pressure in relation to human rights and international conventions. I received a reply from the case rapporteur that it was certainly only experiences from Sweden and Denmark that were decisive. The right has consistently highlighted that competition will increase quality. It was rejected by the President-in-Office. She had no faith in that. I agree with that, and there is no reliable evidence from Sweden that competition ensures better quality either. The rapporteur also stressed freedom and flexibility, that this was not possible in public schools. I believe that if we are to take seriously that quality in public schools is the most important thing for government parties too, one in the name of justice should have been waiting for the investigation from its own sample, the Quality Committee, which was to go through the whole question of how to increase the quality of the public school system, and at least before promoting matters in series and rows that would change the framework conditions of public school. Old Right-Arguments for several private schools have always been that they are opponents of the public school, which is said to be the same for all. Today, there are social segregations from where they live that are the reason why they are in favour of more private schools, because the poor can send their children to private schools. Now it's not long since we treated the poverty message here in Stortinget, but I don't think private schools were involved as measures. It is also used as a positive experience that several immigrant parents send their children to private schools in Sweden. Then I ask myself, is it a goal to stimulate the least possible of immigrant children to attend their own ethnic schools? The government must take the consequence that they are running at a pace that prevents them from providing the basis for important system changes. This means that the Progress Party will have a decisive influence on the government's school policy. I'm sorry, but there's something government parties have to take responsibility for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e780	Today is a historic day. If we are to believe the horror scenarios of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, this is the day when the Norwegian school of unity departs at death. This is the day on which the Norwegian Grand Prix adopts law on incubators, which means that it almost immediately accumulates a variety of alternative private-run health schools, where the best students are in line to enter and where the last primary school is completed, because the primary school is out of competition by newly established in towns and cities. Of course it doesn't go like this. I agree that this could be a historic day for the school. but not in such a negative way as the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party describe the future development. On the right, we do not at all share the distrust of the public school that the socialists market. When the Stortinge adopts today's law of free school, against the voices of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, this is yet another step towards a freer and modern society, with greater freedom of choice, with alternative school offerings, not only based on different life views or pedagogical methods, but schools where quality, commitment and professional skills can be important carriers. The sociologists have always opposed freedom of choice and diversity in all areas of society. It is enough to mention the abolition of the NRK monopoly as an example in an area where, a few years ago, there was uniformity and centrality, while today there is a flourishing diversity with a variety of options. The same thing is going to happen in school. While private schools up to the present day have been largely urban phenomena, with today’s changes in law, there may be hopes that school students and parents who choose to live outside cities and larger towns can also have a real choice. The threat that the colleges will mean the end of the primary schools is greatly exaggerated. On the contrary, even with the limited opportunities provided by today’s legislation, we have seen several examples of creative and engaged parents and parents starting their own school when the municipality has closed down the local school. With today's amendment of the law, this possibility is considerably increased. Quality, diversity and freedom of choice are some of the main reasons for the amendment of the law by the Government. Diversity and freedom of choice can contribute to providing the quality promise in Norwegian school that we all want, including for the public school. In this context, I would like to stress that there is no desire from the Right to weaken our public school. On the contrary, we want to strengthen public school. We also want it to have the freedom and opportunity to develop good educational forms, high professional quality and good learning outcomes for its students. If the leaders, the principals, and the many good teachers we have in public schools today, get the same opportunities and the same framework conditions in relation to local freedom and space of action, I am convinced that the public school will in no way be out of competition or come out as a losing party to the colleges. The sociologists have until recently been hot defenders of the so-called elementary school. In this context I would like to quote from an article in the VG last Thursday, by a pedagogue named Beck: ‘The school has evolved from being a popular education promise 100 years ago to becoming a Soviet school and an almost state-owned school monopoly. It gets more expensive and worse for every day that goes. The school has done its own thing, it is ripe for history’s scrapheugen.’... ‘Friskols made by neighbours and other interest groups can become a new community glue in society’. Some more health schools in several places in the country, together with an improved municipal primary school, could be the happy outcome of today's law-enforcement decision. There will be an important contribution to the necessary quality improvement throughout the education system. I also hope that a few more fresh schools will be able to motivate and inspire that it is also permissible – and desirable – in the field of knowledge to be the best. It is therefore positive when the majority of the Committee emphasises that there should be no obstacles to independent schools having more ambitious objectives in their curricula than that which is consistent with public school education. In order to achieve an overall and comprehensive improvement in quality, it is necessary that high school should also be subject to critical evaluation and quality improvement. Although this law does not include secondary schools, the majority sees it as highly desirable that even secondary schools be included in the law on independent schools, and therefore asks the Government to return to the Stortinget with its own bill to do so. I believe this amendment will make an important contribution to strengthening the Norwegian school system, especially in terms of quality, diversity and freedom of choice for students and parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e811	Knowledge is power. Therefore, the equal right to education has been a principle that has been widely agreed in Norway. Therefore, there has been broad agreement that we have invested in a public school that should be free, and that should be a school for everyone. We've invested in the joint school in Norway, because we want everyone to have the same offer, regardless of the parent's economy, regardless of religious, cultural or social background. We've invested in primary school, and it's made Norway a warmer, safer and fairer society. We often hear — and now also in the last article — that more private schools will lead to more diversity. I totally disagree, because the law of free school allows for some schools to have strict theoretical requirements, and some schools to focus on special aspects of life or religions. Then we can get one school for the theoretical and another for those who don't get in there. We can get one school for humanetics, one school for little Christians, one for those who are more Christians, one for Jews and one for Muslims. It's not diversity, it's opposite uniformity, it's a school where you only go with like-minded children – it's simple. And today, when we have heard from the Right that today's private school law has led to segregation, I cannot understand why one will then go further in the wrong direction. Another argument that has been widely used is that the creation of several private schools leads to more freedom of choice. It'll do it in the big cities, but it's far, this country, and a lot is district. With today's private school law, we have seen examples of private school creation leading to the closure of the municipal branch school. In that case you have a private branch school, but you have not been given any more freedom of choice for that reason! With the new law, I'm concerned that this is a development that will be reinforced. For one of the main points of the new law, a right to authorisation shall be introduced for applicants who comply with the requirements of the law. Those who start a private school will receive guaranteed financial support, while municipal schools will have to compete with other good purposes in the municipality, for example. care for the elderly or securing a port or other purpose which competes in the municipal budget. For the parents involved, I understand they're doing everything they can to save their high school, but in the long run, I think it's totally unsustainable that it's going to be up to the parents in a little town if there's going to be life in the primary school. When, in the public debate on the private school law, it is used as an argument for the new law on high school education, a report from the learning centre shows that the common school is not doing well enough to balance social differences — yes, then it shows that it is producing arguments in twelve hours. Let me stress: we in the Workers' Party are of course concerned that children of parents with a high level of education get better grades than other children. Of course, we are not satisfied that children with a minority background perform on average lower than other students. We're proud of the high school, of the high school, but we're not satisfied as long as we don't meet the goals we've set ourselves. I must say that it is great if the Right is concerned about this, but then we should take care of it together. Then we should address what the learning centre recommends, then we should focus on skills development, focus on quality development and look at resource use in school. Using the objective of balancing social differences as an argument for the new private school law becomes, with respect to reporting, an argument where there is a lack of internal logic. If there's something we know for sure, it's that countries with a lot of private schools, where parents with good advice can pay the kids into schools for the privileged, that's why it helps to reinforce the social differences. Even in Sweden, where it's not school money, we see that it's the most resourceful parents who choose private schools. There has been a broad consensus throughout the post-war period to bet in the primary school. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have been guarantors of the public free school. The Christian People's Party has also been an important supporter. But after the election two years ago, the Christian People's Party changed sides. One of the consequences we see today when the majority of the population in this case adopts a policy which, unfortunately, will lead to less diversity in school, which will weaken local democracy and which will not least lead to greater differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e832	This is a matter of great fundamental importance. It's a case that shows clear ideological dividing lines in Norwegian politics, and such things can be good to have sometimes. For the right, the starting point is a goal that we're going to have the best possible school. Getting the best possible requires challenges, it requires demands. Public schools need challenges to become even better, a challenge both in relation to other pedagogics, other lifestyles and other ways of working. The legislative proposal presents this challenge, but it is primarily about parents' right to choose for their children. In the hearing of the Committee, the Parental Committee of Primary Schools gave particular attention to this. Parental rights are fundamental and it is important to strengthen them. In its hearing opinion, FUG said: ‘In the opinion of the FUG, the Ministry’s legislative proposals are based on a secure basis in relation to key international rights provisions. The legislative proposal must be seen as a natural consequence of parental rights. ‘... The legislative proposal is a natural consequence of parental rights. That's an interesting observation, and it comes from the parental committee for primary school. The right agrees that parental rights are not only important, they are fundamental, and the bill strengthens parental rights. That's one of the reasons why this bill is so important and so principled. In the vote, the legislative proposal is linked to the Norwegian Human Rights Act and the wording ‘freedom to choose schools for their children other than those established by public authorities’. This is more than words. It's about realities, about fundamental rights that are enshrined in what we in the feast days all prizes, namely human rights. However, when it comes to practical policy, the minority will severely restrict this right. Parents should preferably not, and at least to a very limited extent, be given the option of choosing schools for their children. It doesn't surprise me, but it upsets me. Parties who previously opposed the current private school law now say that they support this law. So something good has the new bill already led me. Parties that used to be against private schools now support the old law, if not with the heart, then with the brain. However, the rights of parents shall be limited as much as possible. I'm upset, on behalf of my parents, that so many people are not willing to give them the right to choose the best for their children. I feel convinced that most parents, even where there is real choice, will choose the public school – for many reasons, among others. because public schools are good and because Norwegian tradition and culture are strong in this area. The public school will continue to be the school for most Norwegian children. Right will bet at public school. We'll work to make public school the best possible. It must not prevent parents from being guaranteed the natural right to be able to make choices for their children even when it comes to school. Interestingly, the law we are now invited to adopt is, with some exceptions, very similar to the law in force in Sweden – proposed and introduced by Swedish social democrats and supported by the vast majority of Swedish parties, and without any strong desire to return to the state before the law was introduced. Quality and content requirements must and must be met. Quality is ensured by the recognition of the curriculum to be used. The curriculum is required to ensure that pupils are ‘well trained’. It ensures quality and ensures that students are fully trained. It will also be ensured through supervision. If the quality is not good enough, the grant may be withheld or the authorisation may be withdrawn. Of course, schools will do their utmost to meet the criteria laid down in the law. I therefore feel convinced that the boarding schools will do their utmost to have the highest possible quality. I would say that this will lead to better public schools too. The two school types will do each other good, make each other better. I want to mention a point that I am particularly pleased to have put in place in the process of the committee. It is gratifying that rule 1 and rule 2 schools are secured. These schools, which for a large part have adult students who for some reason dropped out of school when they were between 16 and 19 years of age, are now well secured. The wording in the vote by the majority implies the continuation of the current rules on grants for these schools. That's very good. For me, the bill is not an attack at public school. It's not an attempt at unit school rage. It is a guarantee of the fundamental rights of parents, a guarantee of the right of parents to make good choices for their own children. For me, this is nothing less than ensuring the individual's clear rights and a guarantee of clear democratic principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e861	The working party will protect the public sphere. The ball shall be a meeting place for the absence, contribute to the defrosting and represent a common platform for children and young people. Our society has a screaming need for common gathering places at a time of increasing contradictions and cultural inadequacies. In my opinion, the government is putting up for the wrong use of society's resources, especially at a time when we have a tight budget in almost all the municipalities in the country. So this becomes a down-priority of over 500,000 elephants going to public school. It's a lot about what kind of society we want. The evaluation of Reform 97 shows that schools vary greatly both in terms of educational design and in terms of the quality of results. Some schools have poorer quality than others. Then we should make arrangements to correct and create a smoother quality in the school, not create bigger differences between the schools. Some researchers have pointed out that freeing both professional content and pedagogical profiling could lead to greater inequalities in the quality of results between schools. Increasing competition between ground balls will easily focus on a one-sided focus on characters, which create more or less random win or lose balls, based on student composition and marketability. The fact that Right has a privatisation tool in the field of education doesn't surprise me, because they've always had it. But I am amazed that the Christian People's Party has the same zeal. Lilletun has admitted in an interview that the Christian People's Party and Right have had a different view of the private spheres, but today they are some. The public school has a strong place among people. This shows the investigations carried out by the MMI. 95 pst. says it is very important for a good society that there is a good public school. 83 pst. think it is very important for a good society that children from all walks of life and religions have the school as a common meeting place. The debate today has at least shown me that it is clear that the changes in the private sector are at the bottom of a fundamental vision and not in a broad desire of the people. I think it is good that we have a debate on quality in school. But it's strange that the government is doing well to lead the fight for more private balls into this debate. Our society needs collective bodies, the need for integration, common understanding, friendship and knowledge of the cultural divides. Then it is a paradox that the Government makes a proposal that will increase inequality and create fragmentation in the Norwegian school. We know that there has been a fight in the municipalities with regard to prioritizing between statutory tasks and, for example, between them. school leisure arrangements, clay balls and the provision of shantytowns. All of this is important to do, and it's necessary to give priority to the public school, because it's about giving all children the chance to learn, and then a stake in the school. There must be no cut. Knowledge should be centered and disseminated in a way that attracts everyone. We want all our children to learn more and better. Instead of strengthening the contents of the public school, where most of the schoolchildren are going, we have to fight to continue the offers we now have, because the government is eager to find resources that they can use to finance private schools. Never before, as long as I've been here, has the ideological wind been as strong on the school side as he is now. Never before has there been such a difference between the right and the left in Norwegian policy. I don't think private spheres will pop up. I don't think it's going to be that many percent, but the steps you're taking are probably going in the wrong direction. And when it says that the goal is to choose a school battle other than the public, I thought the plural here in this hall is on the wrong track. The goal must be for most people to have a good school offer, and that should be what is in the public school. Then we need a private school law to have a supplement, that's okay, but today, too much emphasis is put on the 2 percent and too little weight on the 98 percent.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e887	For the Christian People's Party it has been, it is and should be, important and proper to secure the boarding schools. The new law adopted at Odelstinget tonight will facilitate the establishment of such schools in the future, and it will strengthen parents' right to choose school for their children. The Christian People's Party will defend the right to start fresh schools as a supplement to public schools. There's a difference between being a supplement and being a competitor of public school. For the Christian People's Party, it's not a goal to contribute to a large increase in the number of health schools in our country. Nor do we believe that there will be a dramatic increase in this respect. It is not that the Christian People's Party wants the primary schools to compete or threaten the public school. It could almost get the impression during the debate here tonight. The debate on this bill has been very much about a great fear that high schooling will have a negative impact on public schools. Is it really so that the stone school, the colleges of life or other private schools represent a threat to the public school? This is a very unfair claim. The Christian People's Party wants a strong public school. It also stated an overall national meeting of the party earlier this month. It's a commitment. The Christian People's Party wants the school to be characterized by quality, values and transparency. The Christian People's Party will continue to have a school of high resource use and high teacher density. The good school is to disseminate knowledge and our Christian cultural heritage and help children master, unfold, and social development. Free schools are being produced as the major threat to public schools. The Christian People's Party will, and we believe it is entirely possible, that all children in Norway can go to good schools, both those who go to fresh schools and those who go to public schools. The Christian People's Party acknowledges that many municipalities are cutting down on the resources of the school. It is not the threat from the high schools that should be responsible for this, it is the local economy. The community economy is a far greater challenge in public school resources than the colleges are, or will be, in the foreseeable future. This Christian People's Party has recognized. A good community economy is a prerequisite for resources both for public schools and for primary schools. So the Christian People's Party wants a strong public school. Schools must then be secured with resources so that we can have a high level of teacher density and a good community economy. This is related. Increased local space for action in the local economy will also be able to provide good solutions and resource utilisation. It will give freedom to develop a good learning environment and good learning processes. The debate on fresh schools tonight has been a lot about the fear of a weakened public school. For the Christian People's Party, a new law on stand-alone schools means a clear commitment to bet in public schools as well. To continue to be the most current option for Norwegian children and parents, the economy needs to be strengthened. But that's not enough, one has to develop the school further. The Christian People's Party will actively go in to develop the local school. This means giving schools more educational space to develop their own projects and ideas and different ways of organising schoolwork. The Christian People's Party wants the schools to become conscious and clear in their peculiarity and in their societal role. The school must be based on the general part of the curriculum, but gain greater freedom in relation to the curricula. The Christian People's Party wants the public school to be the first choice for many parents. We will continue to stimulate active value sharing through value projects. The students shall learn the difference between right and wrong, mine and yours. Students shall have personal competence to make value choices. There is a strong fear that the establishment of fresh schools may threaten the student base in some municipalities, but a strong commitment to public schools does not mean that there will be a current problem. The public school must be secured so that it is a real choice throughout the country. The Christian People's Party believes in a good public school and in health schools as a supplement, not a competitor. And finally, the quality debate in the school will be about both colleges and public schools becoming winners.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e917	The common public elementary school and the idea behind it is really a pretty amazing vision. It started with a dream, a dream that all kids in Norway, regardless of their parents, their economy, their background and their place of residence, would get an equal right to school and equal opportunities to get an education. It was a hugely long fight that led us there. The left movement began, then took over the work movement, and we managed to achieve this vision, namely that all children in Norway would have a common school, regardless of birth, economics, parents, background and residence. All the time, there's been a work to balance these differences. We never really get to the goal. But the goal has always been to give everyone equal opportunities, in the common public school. This is really this 100 year school history in Norway has been about. Today, we are at the end of this development and history. Today, Odelstingen adopts the most dramatic change in the welfare state base in recent times. Today, we fundamentally change the school system we've had for decades after decades, under many political regimes. Not that the school system in Norway is going to be completely different when we wake up tomorrow, or in a month, or a year, but we have laid the foundation for a fundamentally different school policy system in Norway from what we have had for many decades. It was really a broad political compromise that underpinned school policy, a broad political consensus on the objectives. The working party and the left-hand side were – we should admit – most concerned with the public general school. The central parties, and especially the Christian People's Party, were concerned about the need for religious alternatives. We came together in a broad political compromise. We agreed that we should have a common public primary school, and then we should have a supplement, a possibility of state aid also for schools based on a religious or pedagogical alternative. I hear here that some people are talking about that it must be much better with a private school law that is based on quality rather than on a religious or pedagogical basis. Of course, the requirement for quality was as strong in the old private school law as in the new one. It gave room for 1-2 pst. could start its alternative without undermining the principle of a common general primary school. It is this broad agreement that is now being broken up and abandoned. It is said that the new law should lead to the avoidance of the uncertainty resulting from the change of political majority in Norway. I think it's the opposite. While the previous law survived many different political regimes and governments and many political majority, and provided stability, the new law will be guaranteed to be the subject of political struggle and many changes in the years to come. Some say that it is a paradox that the Workers' Party today is on today's private school law. It surprises me. The Labour Party has been on the same basis in the 30 years since that law came, and we haven't proposed any changes to it even while we've been in government. And to kill a myth: there were no significant differences in the practice of the private school law under Jon Lilletun and me. All the stone schools also received when we were in government, all the montessory schools also received while we were in government, and most of the Christian primary schools also received yes while we were in government. The only significant difference was with a new type of religious schools, the so-called ACE schools, to which Lilletun said yes, but to which I said no. In any case, we do not want to argue about these schools now, because in the new law, Section 1-1(d) states that all schools that are eligible must be based on equality between men and women. These ACE schools have made it clear that the basis of their teaching is that the woman should submit to the man. That's why I take it for granted that these schools will at least lose support when the new law comes into force. The government parties spend most of their time arguing why this law won't really mean much change. There won't be much more private schools. There's actually a marked lack of enthusiasm for the new law. The only thing that really seems to be glowing is the Arne Sortevik of the Progress Party, which calls it a law revolution. I understand the lack of cheering noise both here in the hall and outside, because there has been no popular demand from either students or parents to change the private school. That's not what they want. They want us to fold up our sleeves and make a real boost to improve the quality of the common public primary school, where 98 1⁄2 pst. by the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e936	I brought my manuscript today. I don't usually use that, but I'm taking the chance now. The Coastal Party is aware of the Convention which gives parents the sovereign right to choose training for their children. However, it is fully possible to discuss the public obligation to fund the choice of parents. Under the private school law, various congregations have the opportunity to set up their own schools based on the religious affiliation of their parents. The Coastal Party is deeply concerned about a development in which religious fundamentalism implicates defenseless children. We see how fundamentalism intervenes both nationally and internationally, and we think it is a dangerous development. But that's not what this case is about. Today, the issue of gender equality applies to private and public schools, which are based initially on the same value base, but where an economic or social elite is given the opportunity to establish fresh schools on the basis that the government grant for education is distributed equally between private and public schools. In addition, boarding schools may require parental payment in order to ensure a better offer than is possible through public transfers to the single school. Free schools are also provided with the possibility of sieving the student mass, so that problem students can be excluded. This is how private schools will have greater resources and less problems than public schools. That this creates A and B schools, there can be no doubt about it. Those students who cannot be excluded by the rules on admission may be rejected by including the criteria for the possibility for schools to permanently expel students in today’s legislative proposals. Under this proposal, pupils shall be able to be expelled if they break the Rules of Procedure, if they fail to fulfil their obligations, if they counter the ethical or religious basis of the school or if their parents do not comply with their payment obligations. To take the last one first: rejection due to a lack of parental pay means that if parents lose their job — and that does at least 100 every day — the child may lose his or her place of school. Today we have 100 000 unemployed, and the number is rising. The government not only pursues a policy where the aim is to free up labour – we see that they succeed – but the children of the freed-up labour force should be able to be excluded from their school environment on the basis of the present proposal if they initially have a school place in a high school. A more brutal manifestation of the Government's value base in relation to children's growing-up conditions is difficult to find. Public schools face an integration problem that they do not have the finances to solve through organised premises and specialised staff. On the contrary, we see that the municipalities cancel teachers, because they do not have the money to offer the quality standards that were foreseen when the Stortinget decided that all children and young people, regardless of the level of function, should be integrated into the public school. There may be debilitating children who have such a low level of function that school integration is really meaningless, children who never do homework and systematically sabotage education, to mention some of the problems. This should enable private schools to protect themselves from this by means of admission and expulsion criteria, while nothing should be done to solve the problems of those schools that have been sentenced to full integration, regardless of spatial, economic and human resources. Reform 94. Each State Council shall have its own reform. I have a son who was the victim of Reform 94. He calls it Chaos 96. Yes, it was chaos. One of Norway's richest men became a school loser and would have been today if we hadn't had vocational school that time. Because of the vocational schools, we didn't get any school losers. But today we produce losers. We produce that with the law we now have. The coastal party is in no doubt that the proposal on incubators will create even greater differences between children’s opportunities, based on the family’s economic and social resources. We therefore agree with the position of the minority in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e955	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. For the time being, nine three-minute speeches have been recorded, and the President will say to Odelstinget that this must in no way be seen as a call.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e958	On the left, with the Labour Party and the Left Party, much of its resistance to the new Healthy Law is based on a fundamental fear of change – a fundamental fear that politicians will put power at the hands of parents and elephants, and a fear of what diversity and freedom of choice can bring. We're not saved. There's an untimelyness in the whole change of words about freshular, which has to be cleared by the road. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party claim that the Healthy Law will lead to the creation of schools for the few and for the rich. Well, who really stands for such a line? I choose to take the Workers' Party and SV's policy seriously. These parties will have a snowy private school law, and these parties want to cut their transfer to private schools. The private spheres are the first to be mentioned when the Labour Party is to balance its budgets. And, through the movement of women in the Workers' Party, the provocative spokeswoman Karita Bekkellem Orheim is in charge of cutting off all state aid to the religious private spheres. Where does such a policy lead us? Well, the frescoes become an alternative for the few in particular, the most prosperous, the more interested or the more religious. That's what I think is a very special policy. The right hand part and the government part prefer to have the Refreshulas as an option for anyone who wants it, regardless of more or less special interests, special trust or size of the wallet. We want new and exciting schools to grow up in a healthy game with each other and with the public school, because there is not one fascination with what is a good training and not one fascination with what is a good school, and because lack and choice help to cultivate quality. If the Workers' Party and the SV are serious about their scare images of how much crazy the Refreshulas add to society, these parties should have the advantage of proposing to completely ban the private schools. That would be an honest point of view. The Socialist Left Party has even agreed in its program that the public should take over the private schools. Yeah, why don't they suggest it, then? The representative Rikvam says he has listened very strangely from the government party in this word change. I found it strange that SV does not produce its own policy in this matter. Instead, the left-hand side stands for a policy that makes the refreshes an alternative for the few and for the prosperous.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e975	This law adopted today will help to give parents and students real freedom of choice and a wide range of school services. To date, pupils and parents have had limited freedom of choice, i.e. that they have had freedom of choice only if they choose a public school. The right has always struggled to ensure that free choice of school will also apply to the right to choose a private school. For a long time it has been such that the types of schools that have received public support have been limited. And even if they have, they have been actively countered by the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, both through reduced appropriations and through proposals for not granting grants to private schools if the local public school has to be reduced or degraded. This argument can probably be used against any private school. For the Right, it is not reasonable for any schools to receive grants, while others must be paid in full by the students or parents. This distinction leads to private schools becoming an offer only to those who can afford it. There is no doubt that the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party have made private schools a privilege for the few and prosperous. These batches have created class divisions instead of removing them. We are very pleased that the new law on free schooling does not promote a large private funded high-proportion school system, and that it does so by providing grants and thanking the self-payment of the person who chooses a high-level school. This ensures the individual's right to opt for a post-secondary school. This is a real freedom of choice. It is also very positive that the purpose requirement is replaced by a content and quality requirement. This allows more people to start schools. At the same time, it is right and important that the requirements be strengthened towards those who will, as the Government says. In Sweden, a similar reform has been implemented with great success. It is worth noting that it has increased diversity, while competition from private schools has improved the quality of public school education in Sweden. Finally, I would like to stress once again that fresh schools are and will be a valuable supplement to public school. The fact that increased diversity can also contribute to quality development throughout the school is a positive side effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e993	This morning I had visits by parents' representatives from nine schools in Elverum. They were here to ask us to work for their schools to get better. They said to me, "Our children need school books, not photocopies of school books -- they brought some, and they showed me what their students were offered. Our children need different education, not the removal of sharing hours. Our children need safe schools, not shared principal positions and fewer teachers. Our children need experience, not the removal of day trips and camp schools. These parents did not ask me to have the opportunity to choose a private school, but they were there to fight for the public school, which they would like their kids to go to. It was the school that was near where they lived, the school in which they were happy, and the school they thought it was important to take care of – both for their kids and for other kids – but they saw that the diversity and freedom of choice in public schools were now threatened. Only in the last few years had it become much worse. So I still have the pleasure of meeting some parents who have asked for a private school because they want this freedom of choice, but some of them say that public school won't get better soon, the school can't afford to get modern equipment, it can't afford to give the kids customized training soon, they don't see any other advice. I think it should be a great paradox for the Education Council that the situation in many places is such in the Norwegian primary school that parents are starting to worry. It is that parents are very busy with their children, and I fully support them in that. But I also fully support them in that they don't think it's any advantage for them to be allowed to opt out of public school. They want to be allowed to choose the public school. They want to be able to participate and influence both the content and quality of public schools, and they actually impose quality requirements on public schools that this government and the majority are not willing to meet. That's the big problem. The fact that practicing their parental rights means going to a private school, I think is a rather strange argument when the real need is to get the public school cleaned up, so that it is possible to choose it for everyone. The school that is not good enough for our children can't possibly be good enough for some children.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1004	There have actually been some strange things in the debate. First, someone says, "Who really wanted this law?" The same ones say the schools are in line for approval. The papers say that the colleges have such good exam results, while the debate says that the schools have too few trained teachers. You don't want to give grants to colleges, but you think they're too expensive for poor children. It is believed that only the rich go to such schools. The same parties believe that public schools should have a geographical intake — not free choice of schools — which allows those living in rich housing areas to merge. They believe that we're going to break up at the primary schools, while there's a threat to the municipal maritime administration that parents can choose to maintain a primary school. You think that too many people are unlucky, and you wonder how many are there before it's bad luck, but the real question might have been, what mistakes have we made in public school if there are too many? We social liberals in the Left believe that the world may not be black and white – at least it cannot be at the same time. Rolf Reikvam spoke about an idea that we social liberals have a good sense of, with a common reference framework and a similar experience. It's a very good picture – but then it's wrong, because in public school today there's actually a bigger difference between Old Town school, near where I live, and Øysletta school, where I went. What the kids learn from the two schools about nature, religion, language and culture is different because the schools are very different. They have different reference frameworks and different experiences as they grow up. The similarity is probably greater between Old Town school and Urtehagen school than between Øysletta school and Old Town school. What makes us have a common reference framework and a common experience is that we should learn the same things. Then there's a question about how we learn it, whether we learn it by going to the woods at Øysletta kindergarten, by going to the Middle Ages park at the Old Town school or by Eurythmic militarization at Steinerskolan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1011	The representative called for a lack of jubilee from the representatives of the majority parties. I want to say it so that I think there has been a great deal of realism and soberness in the posts that have been held. On the other hand, there has been no lack of misdemeanor descriptions from the opposition. In today's edition of the magazine Education, committee director Rolf Rikvam expresses the Committee's attitude to the new law on high school education as gloomy and depressing reading. The representative Kristin Halvorsen was also concerned with something of the same, freely quoted: there is widespread distrust in public schools – there is a disillusioned atmosphere in public schools. This kind of statement is not exactly about spreading glow, enthusiasm and belief that the public school is good and can compete with anyone, especially the colleges. Otherwise, it's a baseless accusation from the Socialist Left Party that the parents leave the community and thus contribute to the dissolution of society if they choose a boarding school. What do you know about that? Why has SV's prediction of dissolution not been emphasised in Denmark and Sweden? The evolution is the opposite. Free schools have a positive impact on public schools. More attention on pupils and educational renewal has ring-fenced the school system as a whole. In today's edition of the magazine Education, the representative Rikham, as chairman of the Committee, also says that schools are free to choose students. I believe it is totally contrary to what is the majority's position today, and I also ask the representative, as chairman of the committee, to have a more correct approach to what is the majority's view and remarks. In the end, I have to be allowed to quote a statement from the not completely unknown social democrat, former coach in Rosenborg, Nils Arne Eggen: ‘It is a pedagogical error that one's creating losers.’ If we get some more fresh schools, which evolve in a good and positive direction, so that they attract students and attract good teachers, it helps to attract public schools in a good direction too, cf. The Egg's statement and the Egg's results with the one he has trained.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1026	It may well be that this debate on both the left and the right has been marked by the fact that one on the one hand has flown up in the big visions and big words about a theme, and then tried to minimize the same theme. This is also the case with respect to the representatives of the government parties. There is no way of how big words have flown through the air about freedom and elections, not least from the representative Aarset, while from other representatives of the government parties I have seen typical signs of de minimisation of the possible effects of the law on free school, and almost a desire to put an equal sign between the law of free school you are about to adopt and the private school law you have had. And that makes you a little stunned over a part of the argument. Otherwise, in this debate, I think there has been a striking interest among several parties to make this issue an ideological struggle between the left and the right of Norwegian politics. The left-hand side and the right-hand side of Norwegian policy must be allowed to do so, but the fact is that one on this issue has had a central policy. And that central policy, since 1965, when Kjell Bondevik was given the private school law, has been that one stands on a private school law that has a purpose – that is, where school battles can be established for clear purposes. What one does today is to remove the central policy underlying the private school law and open up a battlefield between the left and right of the school system in the future. I think that's a shame. I think it's a very bad thing that the Left and Christian People's Party is laying down on that line. What is the fact and the fundamental difference in relation to the private school law is that the requirement for the purpose has been removed. In reality, private schools mean identical with and in competition with public schools. That was never the intention of Kjell Bondevik. It should not have been the intention of the Christian People's Party and the Left today either. I think it's going to be banal to bring out the primary schools as an example of something that the new law on free schooling is going to save. When the primary school was completed in Snåsa, it was not from a genuine desire that one should then set up a private school. It was because the local economy was so bad that one couldn't maintain a public school that one would like to have maintained. So one chose to set up a private school offer, which was otherwise entirely within the scope of today's private school law, because it's a montessori school. To those who represent the other centre parties: do not push the primary schools in an attempt to defend a law of high school, when we know that the problem of primary schools is something quite different than the question of choice of school types. There is a question of potential resources or not related to the local government sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1041	It is rare for as many ghosts to pass through the staging room by daylight day as it has done this day. They've been carried out in sequence and row by the minority. You could almost get the impression that this is the end of the Kingdom. To the extent that the speakers of the minority really believe in all these ghosts, there must be reason to express some concern about the state of health and the ability to sleep well at night. I want to write a lot of this on the overdrives account. The most surprising thing I think is the trends we have heard in this debate to rewrite history. It was present in Marit Arnstad's posts, and there was even more creative presence in Trond Giske's posts. You try to represent it as if there's been a kind of peace state around the current private school law. It's just wrong! The fight around the private school law has been there from its adoption until today. Time after time, the annual budgets have proposed cuts in the hundreds of millions, which would in reality make the current private school law impossible. Then there's a proposal for a law that expands the freedom of choice somewhat in relation to this law. Then one suddenly became a situational subject of the current private school law. It's with respect to report a little credible! When you've been fighting this law for all these years and doing your utmost to limit its scope as far as possible, it's strange that you've now suddenly turned to being a hot follower of the same law. 95 pst. of the arguments put forward by the minority in this debate against the new bill, the current private school law affects exactly as much as the proposed new law. There is a fundamental ambiguity in the minority’s argument through this debate. You say in the setting that you are on the current private school law. At the same time, an argument is used against the new proposal, which equally affects the current law. One could almost get the impression that freedom of choice is perceived as the worst threat or the greatest evil that can affect a society. Let me remind you, since memory is obviously short, that we've heard this argument before in this room. We heard it when it was introduced free hospital choice. We heard it when the broadcasting monopoly was lifted. We heard it the time you started making private kindergartens. There's nothing new under the sun. It is reprisal of the same fear of freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1054	I feel the need to say a little at the end of the debate. There has been a great deal of commitment to and against fresh oils, of course, though perhaps a little less than it has been in the public debate ahead of this debate. Many have also been committed to making claims that the Government does not give priority to public schools, that they are falling due, and that it creates uncertainty and despair, among other things. among parents. I think that at least the education policy in this Chamber should know better. When they choose to express themselves this way, they also choose to take responsibility for the negative image they are thus involved in creating from the public school. For the sake of order, I would like to mention some of the things we have done to improve the quality of public school over the last 11⁄2 years, however many of the things have also been dealt with in this room. We've put a lot more emphasis on the development of competences and the dissemination of experience in school. We have adopted a new teacher training and new schoolleader education. We have developed experience dissemination schemes through demonstration schools, national centres of excellence, etc. We've decided to set up a national school quality assessment system, where we can guide through knowledge and transparency on resources, on learning environments and outcomes. We've decided, at least the government, that we want to expand the local space for action – it's here for treatment – through experimentation, changes in the principal's competence, classification rules and transfer of negotiating responsibilities. We have strengthened the influence of users, students and parents, in schools, through changes in the Education Act, also through the proposal we are dealing with today. We have proposed strengthening the State Education Administration. We have a historical commitment to the learning environment, whether in the physical learning environment or in the psychosocial learning environment. We've increased the number of hours in Norwegian. We have presented a comprehensive plan to strengthen the real subjects in school, a similar comprehensive plan to strengthen literacy and literacy, and after all, we get a more flexible 2+2 model. But then it's the case that we're waiting for the quality selection setting. These days we get the evaluation of Reform 97. After that, it's a good idea for us to be able to solve what can be called content and structure questions in a slightly wider sense, including: through a flashing message. We want the schools to be open and learning organisations in the knowledge society, not closed institutions that, as it were, belong to the logic of the industrial society. I believe that they must also tolerate greater diversity and alternatives from which they can learn and which they can learn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1069	I don't take inward the claim that we've drawn a negative picture of the public school. We've drawn a reasonably positive picture. We have challenges to make that school better. But I think I feel very strongly that, in the light of these international comparative studies, the Council of State has also been involved in drawing a picture of a school that does not do its work. I think we have a good public school in many ways. I also feel that the evaluation reports we now receive from those who have evaluated L97 show that we have a good school in many ways. Things work much better than the picture that was drawn before. In some areas, we don't get it. It's quite obvious. I think that the biggest challenge for public schools is to make individual plans for each individual student, go into and adapt education and in a better way facilitate each individual student. I think our biggest challenge is to get it done, to make L97 work better in that area. If we do that, I feel confident that the quality of the public school will receive the promise that we want it to receive. So Søren Fredrik Voie showed me something about education. It is true that private schools should be able to choose which students they want in cases where there is a search. The individual board of directors of each private school selects the type of admission criteria to be taken into account. That there are no leads, we have discussed them quite thoroughly in the committee. I also see that they can use grades as a recording criterion insofar as there are grades in the school the students had to apply for. But the individual board can at least choose what it will focus on when recording. So to common reference frameworks, that we have something in common. We've experienced the public general school. It's something that we've all gone through. It's not just the individual subject in which there are great variations. We have a lot of different ways to organize it. What's important is that students from different environments, the entire width of students, meet in the public school. They meet other students with a different background, with other experiences. This is what they have in common. There are many ways in which the common reference framework, which is central to taking care of, has contributed to the creation of a homogeneous society. We're not going to draw a dark picture. We're not going to paint the fucking wall, but it could be broken by the law that's passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1082	The debate today has become a true copy of previous free school debates. It shows that there is an ideological distinction between those who are willing to take the consequences of parents' right to choose training and education for their children and those who want to restrict this right. I would argue that it is a special parental protection for those with serious convictions. However, this does not prevent the criteria for authorisation from being extended. It's not a goal for the Christian People's Party to get more health schools, but it's a goal for us that parents should have the opportunity. This shade does not manage to bring Kristin Halvorsen or Ranveig Frøiland. But there is a crucial difference in today's debate. Like the representative, Wohnning, I believe that most of the argument today has gone against the principles of today's private school law and the new law on free school. It doesn't create credibility to end up in private school law. Behind the rhetoric I hear a fear of the consequences of the boarding schools, a fear that I do not share. The representative Karita Bekkemelm Orheim claims that the Christian People's Party has lost credibility in school policy. I can't understand it when we focus on parental rights, as we always have. That was the core of Kjell Bondevik's thinking, and that's the core of the Christian People's Party today. We're going to continue working for a strong public school. Here I think Kristin Halvorsen's observation is correct. That's how we solve public school challenges that are crucial. The Christian People's Party will continue to work for reforms and resources; in particular, we now need a youth effort. The debate today has been fairly clarifying, and if I have been concerned about the vote, I have now been calmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1093	To the extent that one is trying to sum up this debate, the government parties have spent most of their time arguing why this law will not mean anything in particular. It's like Trond Giske said, a presumptuous lack of enthusiasm for the new law we're about to adopt. We've heard that many have said that it's a horror scenario from the opposition, and I want to say to the representative Arne Lyngstad, thank God there's still an ideological line going through this room. Arne Lyngstad talks about parental rights. The point is that the majority is only concerned with the parental rights of those who have their children in private school. So far we haven't seen a real and strong commitment to all those who have their children in public school. There are many who share the concerns of the Workers' Party. All those who have their daily work in school everyday are opposed. We see that parents, students and teachers have called for a clear no to the majority now soon to adopt. Inge Wohnning says that you see ghosts at daylight, but then it is not only the opposition who sees these ghosts. All of these groups can't be out to paint the damn wall. They're actually really busy with their children's everyday lives. Inge Wohnung also tried to make a statement that we had suddenly become hot defenders and warm followers of today's law. I want to say that we are on the law of the day, we know that there is a majority in this room for that law, and we believe that we are going to have in the future. Parental signing campaigns are going on throughout the country today, just to try to combat what the Storting is now adopting. Many have said that this will happen overnight, that after the Storting decides today, there will be a system change that will make private schools pop up. I said very clearly in my post that I think it will take time, because first you have to undermine the public offer. Then you want to create a legitimacy to buy a private offer. That's what we've seen in all other important welfare areas. I believe that the government does not take up the many opportunities it has to improve public school. Finally, I would like to say something to the Council of State. Education policies should know better, she says to the opposition. But if someone's been spending time with the entire School-Norway and provoked from day one, it's the council itself. It has been black paint from day one since Bondevik II took over. It's a reality image that more than the Working Party can confirm.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1108	It is possible that you can find joy in the certainty that there are many who believe in ghosts. I don't think ghosts are going to be much more real if there's more people who believe in them. What surprises me is that someone can even think of the idea that the vast majority of parents who are satisfied with the public school, who therefore choose it because they want the children to go there, are deprived of a right by the fact that the minorities who may have other people want a greater right. No matter how many times you repeat that reasoning, it's not going to be credible. Nor will it be a credible reasoning that this should be applied to the use of resources. In Norway, we have a certain number of children in each year's coal that the public has a responsibility to ensure a training offer. There won't be a single child more or less by children moving between schools. This means that the total cost of child training will be the same. There is no one who loses anything at all by safeguarding the rights of minorities. What really is the ideological dividing line, which Karita Bekkemelm Orheim commendably pointed out, is still there between the socialist and the non-socialist parties in this Chamber, is that the socialist parties do not seem to have the slightest sense of the minority's right to choose for themselves, but instead want to be role models. The reality of many of the articles that have been kept from the opposition in this debate is that what is called the single school, is really a desire for the only school. There is a long way to go through many of these posts that you should want there to be no other school offer in this country, because then the ideal of the school would be 100 percent respected. The wonder of this idea is that I am not familiar with social democratic or left-wing socialist parties in any other European country that think in this way, and which is so nostalgic that they want to return to a situation where there is no element of freedom of choice at all. Neither the Danish social democrats, nor the left socialists, nor the Swedish social democrats, nor the left socialists have confessed to me any of the concerns expressed in this Chamber. So in this area, it has to be something weird about Norway that separates us from almost every other country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1120	Karita Bekkemelm Orheim has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1124	I'll try to be short, but I can't push myself to comment on what the representative Inge Wohnning now said. He tries with a picture that no one will be deprived of rights, there is no change in Norwegian school policy with this government. I think that if you travel around Norway today and ask, there are a lot of people who experience things, for example. cut in the 217 million school leisure time scheme. kr. This government has done it to be able to add approx. 400 million. I kron into the pot of private schools. I said in my main post that politics is to choose, and there's something this government has shown with all clarity, is that they choose public schemes, they hit disabled children who lose their offer through the school leisure system, with the policy being pursued. I understand very well that the government will not be confronted with this policy. But, as I said, I think the voters will gradually get their eyes up on the priorities that are being made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1136	Rolf Rikvam has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1139	I have to say I'm a little uncertain about what Inge Wage meant by his post. He was talking about the unit school and the unified school. It has not been mentioned in this debate. What we've been talking about is a public school, a diverse school, a varied school. That's what we've been talking about, and that's what we're trying to defend -- not any uniformity, that Inge Wages polishes against, and that's pretty unclear to me what's for something. We're going to have an exciting public school, where there's a diversity, where there are different pedagogical methods, different organizational arrangements, etc. That's what we're talking about, and that's what we're now defending. Then he also says that this will not cost any more. Now, what we're going to decide is to add up to different structures, we're going to have two parallel structures -- we're going to have the public school, and then we're going to have the private school. It must be obvious to most people that this will be an expensive form, and that this is a cost-intensive form. Through the system it is set up, where municipalities are drawn into the framework grant, it is clear to everyone that public schools will lose financial resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1146	I couldn't help myself when I heard the representative, Inge Wohnning, as I think is extremely provocative. At the same time, a mother from Sweden is now in a position to say that if you don't choose a private school, you almost feel like a bad parent, because in Sweden the view is that the public school is worse than the private schools – you should choose a private school if you want to take care of your children. I can make a comparison with that. There is another side of the Right School policy, which is about to publish the characters. Do you eventually feel like a bad parent if you do not choose a high - grade school but choose a school for your children who have the worst cut? Anyway, someone actually has to go to the school that has the worst cut. I think it's time for the Right to start talking about freedom as something that's relative, depending on what position you have in society, what opportunity you have to choose. And the freedom to choose can't all wear equally constantly. I think it is completely wrong when the representative Wohnning is trying to imagine that it will not go out on public school if there is a large flowering of private schools, for example. in an area where many pupils are moved from public schools to private schools, if that means that less money is also left in public schools. The representative's salary knows that this can be a very good result. It doesn't necessarily cost less to run a class of 21 students than a class of 24 students, but you can get less money, and I think that's a problem. I would like to encourage the representative to watch a program that went on Swedish TV, just a week ago, I think it was. There was an entry about immigrant parents who are very concerned about their children, who have remained in public school in Sweden after the white Swedish middle-class parents moved their children to private schools, which they see as the only right choice to make for parents who are busy with their children. Immigrant parents now experience that their children can do worse Swedish than they can, despite the fact that their children are born and raised in Sweden. The point is, if there's a small number of children going to these private schools, there might be a problem if there's a lot of kids in one place doing this. Then I think it is quite bad by the representative of the payroll not to be willing at all to see that this may be a problem for some children with whom you may not have contact daily, but who are equally fully resident in this country, and who are also entitled to the care of the Right-Representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1155	Søren Fredrik Voie has had the word twice, and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1158	In contrast to SV, the Right actually has confidence in the public school. We think it can compete on the same lines as private schools and in-schools about the favor of students and parents. But what I took the floor for was what Bekkelem Orheim said about cutting at 217 million. kr in the school holiday scheme. I think it's very good that a new ideological difference is being made, where the Workers' Party wants to give priority to welfare schemes at the expense of quality and knowledge in school. When the Government places on the agenda investigations that show that over 20 p.m. of the students leaving school without being able to read and write and only with a minimum of arithmetic, we from the Right want to give priority to knowledge and education, what is compulsory in school, and what is most important in school. It must occasionally be at the expense of good welfare arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1165	No pay has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1168	I understand that there are people who are so afraid of what freedom of choice can lead to, that they know only one way to prevent it: to make sure that freedom of choice does not exist – there is no one. Then you're absolutely sure, of course. I did not use the word ‘correction’ – I think the representative Rikvam must have heard wrong. I said that someone uses the concept of primary school as if it meant "the only school." Because that's actually what you argue that the ideal society is a society with only one school offer. Then you're absolutely sure that everyone has to make use of it, because there's no one else. And then I have to say thank you to the representative Karita Bekkemelm Orheim for letting the cat out of the bag. Her postulate that the cuts in the school budget are in order to make room for private school appropriations has to go to the current private school law, because the law we are dealing with today has not been passed. This means that she confirms that the Workers' Party is still a fanatical opponent of the current private school law and does not want to be granted money to comply with the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1177	The president reminds me that there are several issues for treatment tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1180	Yes, President. Nevertheless, this is a very important matter – because SV is the school important. We have fought for the unity school to be diverse and to offer far more than it does today, so that the needs of different types of education, not least organised education, and of exciting education — a modern school that responds to the needs of students and teachers — are met. That's what you want. So somebody's trying to say that we're describing the school so negative. Now the representative Voie from the Right was up here and he drew out a lot of statistics that would somehow prove how terrible the public school is, and that's why you have to have private schools. I must say I react to this. SV has always fought for the public school, because we think it can offer a good education for everyone if we give it a chance, but that's what this government doesn't do. Finally, the council was also up there and said that those who described the Norwegian school now as there were some problems there, were negative and were about to destroy it. I have to say I'm responding to it, among other things. on behalf of the parents I have met before today. I think maybe the Council of State should respect them. They do not come and ask for a private school, but they come and ask that there be enough resources in the local school they want the children to go to to, in order to provide pupils with adapted training. They brought with them the "teaching books", as they showed today, which were not textbooks, but stencils, which they had had for two years because it was not possible to buy new ones. That must be the law of the Council of States, I think, to say that I take this seriously. This is a message from parents and from the public school that here we have to do something more to make sure that the school gets good enough, and that the freedom of choice that the Government and the Council of State are so concerned about is going to be real. It won't be real if we don't now take the responsibility of making sure that the public school becomes modern and at its height – at least at its height – with the rest of society. It should be the most exciting and most challenging and creative place we have in all communities around the world. I wish the council had gone up here and said that it was also her goal, and that she would add the broad side to get this school so modern and up-to-date that everyone wanted to go there. I'm recording that it's not like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1192	Karin Andersen says she wants an exciting and modern school. So do I. If it's the case that the Socialist Left wants to bet primarily on the development of public school, I can't understand why you're so afraid of the private alternatives. The reality is that only a bad public school has something to fear from alternatives. Karin Andersen says that you have to give the public school a chance, understand that it does not do the current government. Then I listen more to the head of the Education Committee, Rolf Reikvam, who on several occasions has just stressed that now there is a lot of excitement in public school – by opening up more freedom and more attempts in public school to the Council of State Kristin Klemet and the Cooperation Government, by putting more emphasis on evaluation, by putting more emphasis on training better teachers. If we can develop this further, you have nothing to fear from the private alternatives at all. Otherwise, it is touching to hear the care that Trond Giske and others have received for today's private school law. It is true that Inge Wohnning has stressed in this debate that the Workers' Party has, throughout all years, been fighting today's private school law – through the fight against religious alternatives, where Bekkemelm Orheim has also fought to get the National Assembly of the Workers' Party to stop them, through Gudmund Hernes' ban on the establishment of new Montessori schools, and by cutting heavily in the allocations to private schools. With such a story, you can't say that you support and fight for today's private school law. Otherwise it's also interesting that the reactions from the opposition crack so fundamentally. Because while Bekkemelm Orheim says that the government's proposal, which today has a majority, will lead to a «systematic decline» of public schools, says Rolf Reikvam of SV that he does not believe that there will be so many new private schools. I think Rolf Reikvam is closer to the truth. But why should we say no to the parents who want an alternative? Why should we say no to the diversity that the new schools will entail? Why should we say no to the motivation it will also mean for public schools, that we have more alternatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1203	I realized that there were several cats that got out of the bag here at the end of the debate. And when I hear Inge Wage, it's the old Right arguments -- a negative attitude towards the public common school, that is. the most important thing is to establish more private offers. The government parties and the Advance Party have today tried to explain the establishment of several private schools, among others. that it is important in relation to international commitments, international conventions. The rapporteur answered questions about this with the fact that the international pressure had come from Sweden and Denmark – that was the only thing. The same batches have tried to say that it is an important argument for several private schools that they guarantee quality in public as well. So now one recognizes the arguments of the old school politicians in the Right, where it is important to establish private offerings for the sake of privatisation and not for the contents of school and to enhance quality. What I really took the floor for was the reference to Rosenborg and Egg. I don't know the Egg and his attitude right, I don't think he'll be taken to the income for the release of the private schools we have today. On the other hand, he believes that it is the community that produces results, that the ones must take responsibility in the community. I just might say that Rosenborg is now one of the ones, but I haven't seen it help for those who are on the back of the table, for example. Bodø-Glimt! My conclusion is that what we are experiencing today is a privatisation for the sake of privatisation. I believe that it is not just this matter, but when we are going to implement major system changes in Norwegian school – which I perceive is also, in addition, the other issues are on the board of the committee – it should be done at a pace that ensures the widest possible ups and downs, as is the case in all cases. It's important to get up politically, but also with those who are in school every day, whether they're students, teachers or parents. The government doesn't seem to be interested in it, and the consequences we see today. The government parties have made themselves completely dependent on the Advance Party. The representative of Sortevik welcomed the government parties ‘on the school path of the Advance Party’. It may be that there are people who feel a bismach at this welcome. The general public school has a great deal of population outreach. Most of the students are enjoying themselves. This is where the Labour Party will put in the effort, in cooperation with parents, students and teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1214	What made me take the floor was that Vidar Bjørnstad said the government would create more private schools. It's not like the government's setting up more private schools. It is in this case that there are teachers and parents who want more incubators to be set up. And if it is that parents and teachers want to set up alternative schools, we believe that they should have the opportunity to do so, if they are able to meet the qualitative requirements that need to be set. What has not been answered in any way in this debate by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, is what the fear of new schools, of greater diversity in the school sector, is really bottom-up. Because it is well documented and strongly refuted that the establishment of health schools will go beyond public schools financially. There is therefore a possible fear that you will not be able to make a good enough offer within the public school. With the history of the Workers' Party, I might understand that. Because if you look at the last decade, with reform 94 and reform 97, they have now been evaluated differently, and it has been demonstrated that they are being deleted. There have been a number of reforms in public schools that have not been designed to improve quality, which have not resulted in a rise in professional levels, and it is clear that such a story shows that the Workers' Party is afraid of the possibility of creating more schools of health. But with our starting point, where we're going to have more quality in school, we're going to have more diversity in public school, we're going to make stricter demands on teachers, and we're also going to need more evaluation of the school to get everyone up to a higher level, it's perfectly obvious that there's nothing to fear with the new law on high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1221	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 627]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1237	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Coast Party 5 minutes and Council of State 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1248	After hearing the previous debate, I have to say that there was a lot of cats coming out of the bags. We're going to the dog code. As the case rapporteur for the Dog Act, I would like to state that never, at least during this great period, has a law committed to so many, and so many contributions have come to several members of the Justice Committee, as we have experienced. It's not weird. This law that we are now being invited to adopt actually affects 400,000 dogs in our country distributed over approx. 250,000 households, and some people are engaged, rightly. Fortunately, dog injuries are only a few in our country. However, some have experienced serious incidents between humans and dogs that give cause for concern over the law we have today. The need for safety, but also the need for animal protection is, in my opinion, largely addressed in the Ministry and Government's legislative proposals. The overall legislative proposal presented to the Judicial Committee has made clear in many ways. Both the question of the right to kill dogs that have been injured, the question of the right to intervene in emergency situations, and also issues relating to the rights of dog keepers, have been spread around the law today and the possible entry into force of the new law. The bill now offers a good opportunity to bring together the rules and make them more accessible to most people. It's important. It affects many people, and there are provisions that many people will need to use daily. The Justice Committee has also received many very good input from both dog keepers and other people in our country. Everything from the Norwegian Kennel Club to the Association of Bird Dog Clubs and others has recorded many good points in the process. There have been grounds for reviewing and amending the provisions in several respects. I am therefore pleased, as rapporteur-in-Office, that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has, in essence, managed to gather around the majority of the amendments that have emerged in the work of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. In my opinion, we have finally obtained a broad, cross-political agreement on most of this legal text. It's important in its own way, because this is a law that in many ways depends on acceptance and legitimacy, and also understanding, out in the population. The main line of the law, which I believe has been important in relation to the proceedings of the Justice Committee, has been that people – and perhaps especially children – are entitled to justice as well as, among other things, in their meeting with dogs. Bufe. There has been the legislative proposal and, to the extent that the review within the Judicial Committee has created a good and necessary clarification in relation to the basis of the law to intervene both in the situations where dogs are in the process of causing harm and in the situations where dogs have caused harm. I note with satisfaction that the changes that have been made to the paragraphs of the law, which I will not go through here and wear out the Odelstinget, have to a large extent brought together an entire committee. Nevertheless, I allow myself to stay short of Section 2 of the Act, which is important and concerns the question of defining ‘substantial damage’. The Committee has agreed to create a solution which, in the Committee's view, is both legally easy to use and which also specifies a level of the Committee's opinion as'significant damage'. Reference is made to the provisions of the Criminal Code on body damage. This has an impact on the scope of the law, in particular in cases of human injury and in cases where there is a right of intervention granted to the police and other authorities, in cases of material injury. By this definition – and I say this here – we have just opened up the cases that have been mentioned in many ways by those who have thought that legal provisions have been put in place here that almost carte blanche provides any right of killing for any minor damage. That is no longer the case with the definition clearance actually carried out by the Judicial Committee. It is not that scratches from puppies or other small injuries in dogs on children are now a basis for some particularly serious intervention in any way. The question of the definition of livestock has also largely been clarified in relation to the provisions concerning dogs moving abroad, either with or without the right. I would like to point out that in the position taken by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, it has just been possible to gather around central band enforcement provisions, which I know others are coming into the debate, and which are just about to ensure the possibility of a sensible dog team, including. for hunters, but also for outdoor people in general. It is also, in my view, an important proposal that a collective Justice Department has come up with in connection with the marking of dogs and asking the Government to return to a mandatory labelling of dogs during the landfill period. Finally, there is certainly a signal that the Judicial Committee has largely wanted to lay down the resources when it has been decided to double the penalties for bullying dog teams. Several of us have been concerned that there are measures against dog keepers and not the dog breed that are important in the work on such a law, and also the issue of restrictions on the right to have a dog. It brings me to what has probably created the most debate, but which in itself may be a smaller part of what will become the scope of this law, namely the issue of racial bans. There it is the Workers' Party's view that we are faced with a situation where we do not have sufficient evidence in relation to the dangerousness of the breeds currently proposed, in addition to the ban we already have today. The working party is of that opinion – and I believe that more in the committee, in fact a majority, is – that there are greater variations in races than between races, and that there is good reason in that way to continue the regime that you have today, where the government has an opportunity through regulation to ban hundreds of people – a little based on the nature of the issue, it is not very appropriate to deal with from this hall the issue of the danger of dogs, but most of all because we mean the ban today, as it is in the regulation, is sufficient. We believe that there is no qualified evidence from the Workers' Party that American Staffordshire terriers or Staffordshire bull terriers should be included in any ban list. It is our opinion that the registration system and the DNA testing that is now being proposed, among other things. around the amstaffs is sufficient to make the distinction between pit bull terriers and amstaff that many have feared will not be possible. And – perhaps the most important thing: a ban and a debate about the ban itself is a derailment and a shift in what the debate about a sensible dog pack in Norway should be about. It should be much more about dog keepers and all the breeds that are much more common in Norway today, and that have sometimes also created dangerous situations. I see the time running from me, but I will perhaps in an additional post come back to what the Workers' Party has proposed on the question of procedural rules. I am pleased that we have a large majority there too. I would like to raise the Labour Party's proposal and also state that we will otherwise vote in favour of proposal No. 10, tabled by the Right and Christian People's Party, and we will vote against proposal No. 11, by the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1284	The representative Knut Storberget has put forward the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1289	Storberget pointed out that Stortinget was not a suitable place to assess the racial ban. Nevertheless, I understood it so that he went relatively far in making just those assessments. But what's perhaps most surprising is that you're clear against the ban, while you want to give the government a prescription shelter to ban the dogs you say you're against banning. Is it in a way to take credit for not forbidding, while at the same time suggesting that the Government should take on the task of banning what you claim to be against?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1296	It is now the case when the Stortinget is presented with a proposal for a law that the Workers' Party must also consider the legislative proposals that are coming. As regards the question of, inter alia: amstaff and Staffordshire bull terrier, it is quite obvious that we believe that there has been a difficult assessment and that that assessment should not be taken here. But we have been presented with the proposal and feel that it is most neat to carry out that assessment. I believe in such a way that it must be possible to have two thoughts in my head at once when it comes to precisely the processual around this. When it comes to the question of prescription shelter, there is a basis that the government has had all the time in the martial arts dog law, and that I seem to have worked absolutely well. It will not deprive the Workers' Party of the executive power, for it can certainly be situations where it would be appropriate to ban hundreds of races. But in the case of the proposed hundreds of races, we have seen no basis to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1305	The working party believes that variations between individuals within the individual hundreds prevent a ban on individual breeds. Despite this, we want pit bulls and wolf hybrids to be banned. The Labour Party says that sociological variations in dog breeds and dog holders can form the basis for racial bans, but goes against clear recommendations from the police to ban the staffordshire bull terrier and amstaff. The police point out that precisely these hundreds of people are not rarely found in criminal settings. In spite of this, the Labour Party opens the way for the Ministry of Justice to ban certain breeds by regulation. Which breeds are not specified. The views of the Labour Party crack in all directions. You don't want to forbid. You open the door to ban. But you don't want to take responsibility by supporting a ban by law. Responsibilities shall be removed from the lot by opening prohibitions by means of a regulation. This I think is cowardly. Or perhaps the representative Storberget of the Workers' Party can explain the obvious lack of principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1312	The President has doubts as to whether 'fight' is a parliamentary expression, but lets it pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1315	I understood what he meant. With regard to this scepticism we have had in relation to entering the racial ban, I will be allowed to quote what the representative Holstad of the Christian People's Party said to the Evening Post less than a month ago: ‘Holstad is also skeptical of the prohibition of certain breeds because it is difficult to justify professionally that some breeds are more dangerous than others. “But we need to be able to look at a licensing system where some dog owners need to document their suitability to keep special dogs.” To what extent this is cowardice, I shouldn't go into it. That's not necessary. But that's a good thing. It's this issue that we've largely stayed up on when we've assessed this question. And it's nothing new that a government has such a regulatory right. This is a continuation of the Battle Dog Act. It is a little strange that the Workers' Party has confidence in this matter that the Government is doing a good job, not the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1327	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1330	The husband of the dog-interested person has shown in this case, one should look for a long time. From e-mail campaigns directed from abroad to allow the Czech wolf dog not to be subject to the law ban, or to associations and organisations that have recorded their dog law in a bunch of personal opinions about the value of their dog or breed. Common to all actors is that they have shown a genuine and glowing commitment to the «best friend of man», the dog. Many of the recordings have given me valuable knowledge about the dog and dog husbandry. If I am to draw up a specific group at all that has contributed information, it must be the joint comment of the Norwegian Kennel Club, the Association of Bird Dog Clubs and the Norwegian Hunter and Fish Associations. When the government published the Dog Act, there was quick criticism from several teams. Much of the criticism did not give rise to the realities of the law, but to obvious misunderstandings. This was particularly true in relation to the right to kill dogs in specific situations. It has never been anyone's intention to adopt a law that imposes substantial self-justice. The slogans that "the dog law can kill your dog" do not exactly promote understanding for a better dog team, but are there to create an artificial and constructed image that either you are a dog nest, or you are a dog hater. Such attitudes do not create a better understanding of the dog's condition. I myself have never had the pleasure of having a dog, but I see clearly that dog teams are an important part of many people's lives. The 400,000 dogs found in Norway serve a very important function for mental and physical health for many. The dog contributes greatly to increased quality of life in the field of outdoor activities and hunting and as a family pet. Thorough, documented surveys abroad show with all clarity how important the dog is to humans. The dog gives people an increased ability to cope with stress, a more positive view of life, a actually reduced risk of cardiovascular disease, and it is used in the psychiatric treatment of chronic diseases. The right is behind the dog law’s intention to create a framework that contributes to a positive and socially beneficial dog team and ensures increased safety around the Norwegian dog team. Several recent events between dogs and humans, in conjunction with unfortunate developments in certain dog environments, unfortunately suggest that regulatory intensification is necessary. Some changes have been made based on political, professional and legal considerations and good input from many consultation bodies. The Parties have agreed unanimously on the definition of significant damage, domestic animals, the jurisdictions of the municipality, binding regulations, the role of mountain governments, IPO training, the preparation of proposals for mandatory identification of dogs, immediate police action against dogs, the level of penalties for negligent dog husbandry, etc. etc. One area where there is little distinction in language use, but much in consequence, is Section 25 concerning the handling of appeal proceedings following police action against the dog owner. The disagreement is not that the Police Directorate should be the first appeal body. However, the Right believes that the dog owner, for economic reasons and for a quick decision, should have the right to an effective judicial process. Not as the majority, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Progress Party suggest, namely a costly and, not least, bureaucratic process that benefits only those who are rich in money and quarrels – a legal and abnormal massodont treatment of matters that had earned a simpler follow-up. It is extremely interesting that the Progress Party supports a proposal that is both more expensive for the dog owner and that adds to inefficient court proceedings. There is doubt as to whether legal certainty is increased as the cost to the owner of the dog. The main debate in the media has focused on whether or not a racial ban should be imposed. Right wants a race ban in the form of law, as proposed by the Government in the Dogs Act § 19. The proposed Section 19 is one of several preventive measures to counteract the unfortunate consequences of dog husbandry. In the consultation round there was broad agreement to continue a ban on the types of dogs mentioned in the Fight Dog Act of 4 July 1991 No. 48 – temporary law prohibiting the introduction, keeping and breeding of dangerous dogs. What's interesting is that one of the champions of the Fight Dog Act, SV's leader, Kristin Halvorsen, now wants to delegate the authority to decide which combat dogs should not be allowed. What was once a political goal for SV, to stop the cultivation of combat dogs, is now left to the bureaucracy to manage. This is an easy political solution that is the result of the lobby's barking. It should always be the duty of the elected representatives to take a stand on such an important matter that affects very many people. Instead of the ‘fogs’, the working party and the SV out without wiping out the position. However, the Workers' Party and the SV know exactly what the administration intends to do with its mandate, namely to ban those hundred breeds. In my opinion, the result of the Labour Party, SVs and the Advance Party's attempt at analytical exodus in relation to racial bans is unfortunate, as the same parties engage in a discussion about breeds and individuals without giving a clear indication of what they really want. The working party and SV obscure their position on the grounds of masculinity towards active dog organisations rather than standing upright on an unpleasant question of the maintenance of the combat dog law in its present form. These batches are asking for more information, i.e. indirectly entrusts the research to decide, where appropriate, which breeds should be prohibited. The question is then: who is behind this research? Right wants the race ban regulated by law because it gives dog owners greater predictability and then guarantees what is allowed. The imposition of the racial ban in a regulation makes the prohibition unforeseeable and may be subject to frequent changes as a result of changes in the perceptions of management and political management. A prohibition in the form of a law will encourage active press groups to obtain sufficiently objective research results through genetic and DNA base materials that can distinguish prohibited breeds from each other, such as: amstaff and pit bull terriers. We have seen inhuman suffering as a result of unacceptable dog husbandry – from scambing to regular killing. The dog is a predator and will react irrationally in any given situation. The Fight Dog Act has been of importance. Now we need a clarification of the law to also prevent and respond to future unwanted dog teams. From a enforcement point of view, it is important that the new breeds referred to above be banned. The ban on dangerous dog types is also supported because the extent of damage and consequences are greater in these dog types than in others when aggressive behaviour is triggered. The Government Parties will support the Workers' Party's proposal in a subsidiary way to add the race ban to regulations. The alternative when the government parties' proposals fall is that a regulatory helmet is better than nothing. The drawing up of such a list of prohibitions in the form of a regulation must be subject to professional, objective criteria, such as police and veterinary evaluations of breeds or mixtures which, in terms of their characteristics and size, may become problematic and are therefore undesirable for introduction, keeping and breeding. I am promoting because of the uncertainty of the time when a regulation can come into force, an amendment to Section 32, that the Battle Dog Act will apply until the regulation is repealed. I have received a post that describes: «The dog is my children». Such a humanization of the dog makes it difficult to develop rational criteria for good dog husbandry. Unfortunately, in some situations a dog may trigger its aggressive behavior, which will have significant damage to humans. An attempt to equalise the dog and man creates unclear legal interfaces and is a mockery of special children who are initially defenseless against an aggressive dog at any time. Demanding a proportionality assessment in a situation involving children shows, in my view, a distorted view of the interaction between man and dog. It is therefore necessary to support the provisions of the Dog Code for the protection of human safety against dogs in emergency and hazard situations. The existence of dog-holding requires the ability to intervene with measures against dogs that will do or have done harm. The proposed emergency protection provision in the second paragraph of Section 14 is in accordance with the emergency law and is designed in line with the Penal Court’s proposal in NOU 2002:4. The rights of emergency workers in the dog law must not be less extensive than those deriving from general criminal law. If ‘obviously beyond the proper’ is changed to ‘in addition to the proper’ in Section 14, second paragraph, it would mean a restriction on access to emergency services against attacks by dogs, compared to access to emergency services in other situations. The right strongly disagrees with such a restriction in the emergency protection clause as the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Progress Party add. This provision will not clarify the situations in which emergency workers are required to apply, but will restrict the right of emergency workers only. The right considers that stimulating police contact and the implementation of other security measures before killing in an emergency situation are not realistic and at best only a theoretical exercise. An emergency situation is characterised by its acute, critical and hectic nature. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Progress Party's situation description will therefore be appropriate to situations where the need is rare. Then I would like to make it clear that in emergency situations the dog will not be killed if the danger can be averted in another way. Finally, I'll be allowed to repeat that dog teams have a lot of positive sides. In truth, the dog is man's best friend. The law shall clarify a mutual understanding between the dog owner, the dog and society’s needs. Hopefully, the new law adopted here today will lead to further development of the healthy Norwegian dog team, which is largely based on knowledge and love for the dog.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1370	Before the representative leaves the pulpit, the president will ask if he should perhaps make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1373	I then promote the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party, which is a minority proposal in the vote. I also promote the proposal submitted to the President, proposal No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1378	The representative, Carsten Dybevig, has taken up the proposals in the statement to which he refers, as well as the proposal which has been distributed in the seats of the representatives. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1383	The working party is concerned that through these changes to the law, we continue to ensure the hunting and leisure activities of the dog population. When introducing e.g.: it is important that there is a real need and that one ensures the areas in which the game wishes to protect its area of life. Local self-government is important, but we must avoid different practices and discrimination across the country. Unwarranted local differences may arise quickly. Therefore, there should be a possibility that the imposition of banding and the abolition of banding pursuant to Section 6 may be brought before the county council. When I see the strong bureaucratic objections of the Right and Christian People's Party to this complaint, there is at least one central question that arises: Isn't the Right concerned that the hunting and leisure activities of the dog population should be ensured, and in the most possible equal way, no matter where you live in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1394	Of course, the right is also concerned with the enforcement of binding rules and provisions on hunting and hunting rights, similar from the municipality to the municipality. In this case, however, we have unanimously agreed that municipalities can introduce their own regulations. Different municipalities may choose different types of binding regulations, depending on such things as the representative Røtvej mentioned here, namely that there may be differences between municipalities in the North Gudbrandsdal and municipalities in the flat East. The need for binding rules in relation to seasons, etc. is, of course, different from the municipality to the municipality. What we have said in the proposition – and which is important – is that mountain governments, which have exceptional knowledge of the different districts, should have a clear influence on the binding regulations that are being made locally. In addition, the municipalities may, in the form of regulations, lay down their own binding rules. The parties to the Government consider that it is very unfortunate that a new principle is given to give the state access to justice in respect of regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1401	Section 14(b) provides special protection for grazing livestock. The majority consider that this should be limited to those where domestic animals have a legitimate reason for special protection. What I could well imagine being answered is why the Right believes there is a need for specific legal protection and rights for livestock owners who place their animals on illegal pasture or who have their animals in areas where they do not have the right to be found.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1408	Of course, the government parties do not support the illegal grazing of animals. Something else would have been pointless. As regards the dog law, the majority, consisting of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Advance Party, have not taken into account that animals, for example: passes the property of another person in order to reach his pasture area. In Foreign Norway, property boundaries are not always as easy to figure out, so animals often pass someone else's property to get to their pastures. We have taken that into account in our proposal, by not being able to implement different types of killing regulations in this respect. I want to say that we've taken into account the issues that Kukkestad here mentions. The majority have not.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1417	I think it's really strange to hear the representative Deepevig, who's so sloppy. Is there anything this process has at least taught me, is that it's pretty hard to know what's actually the case. I think it makes sense to leave to the ministry the possibility of making choices as to which dogs are to be defined as dangerous, and which are not, simply because there is so conflicting information about what is what. I believe that Norway's National Assembly should use time on other things than just this. At the same time, it is important for us to give some guidance on how the ministry should deal with this, because we believe that they have been reasonably quick out in some areas. It would be wise for the Ministry to take inwards that a majority is opposed to being harsh in the use of this regulation further forward. I would ask the representative, Mr Dybevig, to support our demand that the animals that are to be banned must be sterilised, registered and labelled. If not, it will be pointless.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1426	I think SV should be careful to define what is good and what is bad use of time in this room. It gets to be up to those who debate the issues at all times. We have different interests and different perceptions of what is important in society. We think, for example: that this dog law is an important tool to prevent poor dog husbandry. As regards § 19 and sterilisation, etc., we believe that going into the details – as SV does – of how to possibly kill already existing dogs in a brutal way if sterilisation is not done is very unfortunate. We're not experts in that kind of business. We want to have a law ban on special breeds. I have explained this in my article. We dare take responsibility for that. SV ambiguizes its responsibilities. They were champions of the Battle Dog Act. Today they are ‘feeling’ out — by trying to obscure their actual point of view, namely that they are actually in favour of prohibition. They want to cover it up to dog organisations, who have the ‘lobt’ very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1437	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1440	Freedom under responsibility is an important starting point – including in the case of dog husbandry. Dog husbandry is also an important part of Norwegian cultural heritage. At the same time, studies show that the quality of life of persons increases when surrounded by animals. This means that pets have an important positive effect on people’s mental health. Nor should one suggest that dog teams lead to an increase in physical activity. The point of the dog law must be to find a good balance between wide access to the practice of dog teams, while at the same time reducing irresponsible and irresponsible dog-holding situations. The party of progress is of the opinion that the government proposal witnessed more speed than thought. This is the background to the relatively large number of amendments available in relation to the proposal. In this context, I would also like to point out the relatively good flexibility and constructiveness shown by the government parties during the proceedings in the Committee on Justice. What must be crucial is that a dog keeper should be used as a starting point. In all, it is essential dog keeper as a form and responsible for the dog’s development and behaviour. It is also the dog keeper who must initially take responsibility for implementing the necessary measures for killing if the dog cannot be handled properly in any way. Then it's wrong to focus on hundreds of races and not on the human being behind the dog. The regrettable events we've had lately have included dogs other than those that the Government has proposed to ban. A racial ban may have the effect that a person is trying to act effectively, but does not address the problem where the problem exists. It could be a sleeping cushion, so you let go of the unpleasant. Yes, it can even remind you of Wessel's words about fixing bakers for blacksmiths. The propulsion party is engaged in the dog keeper’s responsibilities for its dog’s husbandry and the behaviour of its dog. That is why we are in favour of increasing the penalties for negligent dog-holding, for which there has been a unanimous vote. This, combined with a possible licensing system for suspected dangerous dogs, would result in more effective control of undesirable conditions than a ban that is relatively arbitrary. It will also be able to reduce knowledge of the genetics of the breed and thus also the ability to identify. A regulatory home to ban dogs in their own best interests is also not something that the Progress Party believes strengthens the individual’s ability to have a predictable situation. If one goes for the purchase of a dog, this is not a until further evaluation, but a long-term and labor-intensive choice. In terms of restrictions on having a dog, we believe in the Progress Party that the rules of Sections 3, 11, 17 and 22 plus some others are sufficient. The right of the municipality to provide regulations to ensure order and order and to prevent congestion is provided for in Section 11. Then it becomes incomprehensible that according to Section 12, the municipality should also provide regulations on what is needed in order to have more than a certain number of adult dogs. In any case, one here will have to take into account the nature of the individual dogs. It would be strange whether the number is more important than how the dogs behave in relation to the environment. In any case, in a situation where the dog keeper cannot be said to comply with the necessary standards of care, a weighing based on the individual dog keeper must be carried out. It is then important that this be done by the police in accordance with the guidelines and discretionary criteria that will generally apply. Involvement of municipalities in this issue would be the introduction of a double accounting system that could lead to liability pulverisation, and regulations given to be on the safe side, even if there has been no problem, or that there is not even expected to be a problem. With regard to the possibility of killing dogs, the Progress Party considers it appropriate to exercise the restraint exercised by the majority, both in relation to the criteria for what is to be done and to persons who may invoke such a right. One could get the impression that the government stood for a line in which anyone who saw a dog running in the woods could initiate private killing with the welding knife or stone he could have available. This would lead to a form of self-determination that it surprises me that the government parties could do well. At the same time, such a type of layman killing would lead to many dangerous situations, not least in view of the justified threat and the attack the dog would face. Now there is a requirement for proportionality in damage or danger of damage and a requirement of real material interest before one can practice self-determination. With regard to the claim for the damage to be done in order to require killing, we consider it appropriate to add the list a little higher than what the Government proposed. In this context, it is natural to include the list at the level generally covered by the penal code in terms of body damage. As the proposal was made, a person could be harmed so that even relatively de minimis conditions could be sufficient to require killing. At the same time, it is natural to make it clear that, where the dog must be considered to be responding to an immediate prior provocation, killing the dog is a poor instrument. With regard to the general emergency protection provision, it is possible that this is codified in the dog law where emergency workers are involved in situations where the dog is involved. It is also natural that it relates to the same criteria that emergency workers otherwise include. A separate definition of emergency workers in relation to dogs in relation to other animals could quickly create more uncertainty than is good. An important element of emergency protection is the proportionality of the action taken to prevent damage. In this context, we are somewhat uncertain as to whether this is being done if you believe that everything that does not go beyond the clearly irresponsible is acceptable. What will be within the responsibility must be assessed in each case. Probably the practical consequences aren't so great, but it's important that you have in mind the importance of proportionality. In the case of livestock on pasture, the person responsible for the animals has the right to avert damage by the means necessary. It is not as obvious that such an extended right has failed to ensure that his livestock remains in the area where they are legally entitled to stay. The fact that the parties to the Government believe that those who have domestic animals that graze illegally or otherwise allow their animals to remain in a place where they do not have rights may call for an extended protection appears to be incomprehensible. So it's not a question of a legitimate movement of animals, but of a place where you don't initially have rights. It is gratifying to see that everyone, including the government parties, sees the need for a better review of the individual decisions than the government proposed. Nevertheless, we see that the government parties want a more amputated procedure than the majority have found appropriate. We agree with the call for effective court proceedings, but this is a wish that applies in general and not specifically to dog-holding issues. I will take up the suggestions from the Progress Party that have been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1480	The representative, André Kukkestad, has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1485	If I am to allow myself to draw something political out of Mr Kukkestad's speeches and his proposals, it must now be proposed by the Progress Party to legalise and decriminalise those races, among other things. pit bull terriers, which are currently prohibited. Progress Party, Crime Fighter No. one, thus proposes that pit bull terriers become legal in Norway. I ask to be confirmed if this is correct. In that case, does it not stimulate the environments that actually possess dogs illegally, to continue to chaotic dog teams and further crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1490	Also, in the case of those hundred breeds, it is crucial how the owner deals with the dogs he has. This means that crime does not increase in relation to which dogs are legal or illegal, but how dog owners choose to deal with their dog teams. A lot of the threats that people feel are exposed to, among other things. In fact, drug addicts are caused by hundreds of breeds other than those mentioned here. I am not sure whether the representative Storberget wants to ban the shags or the labradors for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1495	In this case, the Progress Party, together with the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, has formed a majority on several points. I can't see that it's in line with what the Progress Party claims to stand for. In fact, in the case of Section 25 of the Act on Procedure and Review of Police Decisions, the Progress Party is in favour of more bureaucracy and less democracy for most people. The system for which the Progress Party participates in the formation of a majority entails a review procedure which is not parallel in Norway: first, a complaint to the Directorate of Police, and then the administrative decision can be fully reviewed in the courts, and in the worst cases in three instances. There are very few administrative decisions which can be brought to such a hearing. Is the Progress Party really going to use the Police Directorate as a dog director? Does the Progress Party want to use police resources to deal with dog cases instead of fighting crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1500	I'm probably a little unsure whether it's the Progress Party or the Right that should be most concerned that the Workers' Party and SV are more for legal certainty and private property than what the Right is. As regards the question of FOD as a remedy, the Right has actually even proposed it in the current proposal, but you might not want to remember that. Otherwise, for us, legal certainty is important. For us, the normal procedure, which takes place by the vast majority of administrative decisions, is an administrative appeal and then a legal assessment, not particularly here, and we want to maintain it. Why it is that one believes that an amputated test course is good, I do not know.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1509	I believe that the Progress Party is reasonably consistent in its way of dealing with the race ban. However, there is one thing I want answers to, and that concerns wolf hybrids. I'm not sure if the Progress Party has really been involved in what exactly this is about. Ulvehybrids are not approved in Sweden. They have problems in Alaska, among others. with introduced wolf hybrids and wolf hybrids may present a risk of hybridisation of the wolf strain in general. I think that is something that the Progress Party should also be interested in. Although nature protection may not be the main trademark of the party, I believe that this cross is so special that the Progress Party should perhaps reconsider its position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1516	I think it is nice that SV points out that we are consistent on the issue of prohibition, and rather makes the owner responsible. That's why this is also the result in the case of wolf hybrids, because you get the same problem every time you leave out a mixed dog. That's exactly why we want a situation where you have registration and tribal boards, to know what you have to deal with. As long as you just ban some hundred breeds, but open to lots of mixed dogs, unregistered such, I'm a little uncertain where this is actually going to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1521	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1524	I first want to put the representative Deepvig in place a little bit. Based on the representative Dybevig's extremely delicate handling of the facts, there is even greater reason, as I see it, to leave the question of dangerous dogs to the ministry. In spite of the fact that the department has not impressed me very much about that piece, I must at least say that it impresses more than the representative Dybevig is doing here. To claim that SV goes in order to kill dogs that you had to consider dangerous, without further ado, is the purest nonsense and should actually be characterized by a stronger expression than is permitted by this pulpit. SV is pleased that we now have one law on dog keeping, so that the law becomes more transparent and manageable to deal with. SV is particularly pleased that provisions will now be adopted which will make it easier to intervene with unwitting dog teams, so that we will never again face a situation where no one does anything because bureaucratic rules and a little law available prevent the necessary intervention. That's at least what we've now tried to get in place. It is also important for SV to provide an opportunity to prohibit certain persons from having dogs, to require training and approval in order to have specific, demanding types of dogs, and to agree with SV that all dogs must now be marked and registered and that the Ministry should make proposals during this ageing period. It is also very good, we believe, that the majority of the Stortinges, consisting of SV, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, ask the Government to make proposals to the Stortinge on the legal basis that ensure that health professionals and other public authorities report to the relevant public authority on unacceptable dog husbandry, despite the obligation of prior legal confidentiality. This is a proposal that the Animal Alliance initially came up with, and as we thought was so good that we went on with it, and now has a majority for it. We think that's very good. In total, these are very positive measures that I think most dog owners, at least those who are serious, also support. SV believes that the effort must be directed towards getting rid of unwary dog teams. Nevertheless, we will support the Workers' Party's proposal to provide the Ministry with a regulatory support to ban dangerous dogs. But we're stressing that this rule is to be used with caution. We believe that it has been extremely difficult to decide what is really the facts of the process that has been. We've had meetings with various agencies, researchers and others, and what they have in common is that they say there's little research and little knowledge about this. It must be a challenge for the Ministry in the future to acquire the necessary knowledge and not to make hasty decisions. SV is nevertheless in favour of wolf hybrids being banned, and we are in favour of the amstaff entering into this regulation. We do that because the police believe it's impossible to enforce the pre-existing pit bull ban without the amstaff being banned, simply because it's not possible to separate the two races from each other by DNA tests, and we've got a lot of impressions that the amstaff is used as a camouflage for pit bull. I think these are difficult questions, and I think whatever the most important thing we have to do now is put in place a labelling system and put in place a regulation that allows us to make certain demands if we are to have certain hundred breeds that are particularly demanding. This could be done, for example, by: be required to be a certificate of good conduct, reinforced binding requirements, training and rapid marking requirements. I also think it is extremely important to put in place a requirement for sterilisation, rapid labelling and registration of dogs that you want to prohibit. Only SV is behind this in the committee. I think it's really strange, because it's a constructive suggestion from us to avoid some dogs being subjected to the kind of persecution that was mentioned in today's VG on page 18, when there are problems proving what kind of dog it is, when it's a mixed dog. If you can then make demands for labelling, registration, sterilisation of such a type of dog, I think you could have gotten far. SV believes that the Ministry now needs to find good arrangements for the enforcement of the bans that are being implemented. There are a number of questions that are raised in this context, which we believe the Department should take advantage of some time to go through, for example. how to relate to mixed breeds. SV is pleased that the Committee has more or less unanimously tightened up some of the killing regulations, both in terms of the situations in which a dog can be killed and in terms of who should be able to do so. We find it strange that the ministry has not taken over the concerns of central, serious hearing bodies in relation to precisely these paragraphs. What I particularly noted in the hearing was what police inspector Runa Bunæs pointed out that there have been the procedural provisions that have been the problems for the police, not the material ones. Then it seems very strange that you need to go to work so detailed in relation to both emergency law and the general killing regulations. I think it's quite correct, as Runa Bunæs pointed out, that she doesn't know – and I don't know that either – that there have been cases where you haven't intervened against a dog that has been attacked, for fear of being subjected to a civil trial later on. I don't think so. I believe that if you hadn't been so unclear and unclear and used so many paragraphs to establish this emergency right, you could have avoided something of it – I would have almost said – the bike fight that has been in front of this debate. For example, the committee has tightened up the definition of ‘significant damage’, not because we believe that a dog, or a puppy, would have been killed if it had scraped away in a child. It also writes the Department of Maritime Affairs. Anyway, it's clumsy written. It is unnecessarily extensive, and even the police wanted a tightening, so that it only includes § 2-29 of the penal code. It's got to hold. We have also changed a little on Section 14c, on Section 15 and on parts of Section 18. This has been done by a unanimous committee – including the government parties. SV is not quite enthusiastic about the process until this law was presented and the setting was made clear by the committee, because we believe that the law could have both been based on the usual dog team in Norway and not in extreme cases, and that it sometimes has a level of detail that has made the process both more difficult and more messy than we think has been necessary. I believe that much of the purpose of this law has been to avoid, among other things. there are training cases in which there is clearly an obscene dog team, such as: what happened in Torpo. Then, much of the processual that has been important here, to prevent this from happening and taking a long time, but also for the police to have effective instruments. I think that's what we've done, and that's one of the most important things. But at the same time, I think it might have been an advantage if we had had a lower level of detail on this law, if we had perhaps said to a lesser extent that the police should take care of all sorts of problematic dog teams, which are not really dangerous, but annoying to us who do not have the same high threshold in relation to dogs. It can apply to both people who have dog sails, and people who don't have dog sails. But it's not like we have to give the impression that the police are going to come and help us in any context that we think is annoying. There's one thing the police have also warned against, that we're gradually getting a mentality in society where we call on Uncle Police every time people or fairy don't act after the book, despite the fact that it's not directly dangerous or harmful. Then I think we could have made this law less extensive. I also think that if we had listened to some of the environments that are operating, among other things. hunting, we could have avoided some problematic situations that have taken a lot of time in this committee, among other things. in relation to the arrangements for the possibility of hunting, not to be terrified of the shooting of a bicca if it is loose and so-called at risk of domestic, domestic and deer game. Getting dogs without escorts in banding time was obviously absolutely necessary to make this law more clear. These are the things that I honestly think the department could have found out in advance, because it has given us a lot of extra work that we could have used for, for example. Put us better into the different hundreds of races. I believe that the department has a good time to thank for the heated debate, while I can see that some dog environments have been quite extreme in their characteristics of the bill. I fully agree that there is a need to use six paragraphs on the killing homes, in various letters. I agree that everyone's ability to kill goes on again too many places, which we have partly corrected. I agree that it has been quite unclear in what situations you really have the opportunity to kill. This is also something that the Committee has taken on board. But it's not that it's free for dog haters around this country to shoot all the bees they don't like. So it's not like that! And if now someone believes it after this law has been passed, some of the dog environments have their own way of thanking for it. I think we've got a law that's pretty good. In fact, I think it makes sense for the department to have a number of regulatory options, and I hope that the department does what the majority say, namely to be careful about defining races as dangerous per se, because it might create even more problems than it solves, as I see it at least, and as the majority sees it. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions that SV has made in the setting. We support the Workers' Party's proposal No. 3, proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party No. 10, and we will vote against proposal No. 11, which we believe will not help anyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1568	The representative No Marte Thorkildsen has drawn up the proposal she herself referred to. Otherwise, the President would point out that the characterisation of other representatives' views as'stupid' is unparliamentary speech. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1576	There's a problem that I think the public will demand of us that we clarify during the evening, and that's the misunderstanding that the representative Deepevig is pushing around in this debate, that we can do it as the accumulation opposition dares not. For this reason, I would like to ask the SV's representative if it is such that with their proposal related to amstaff and wolf hybrids – amstaff I regret that SV comes with – that Staffordshire bull terriers should not be banned, and that in this way there is a large number who actually believe that that breed should be protected. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1581	In the course of the process we've been through, I can't see that there have been arguments that have convinced me that that race should be banned. I think it's right, as many in this process have said, that it's the dog owner that's the main reason a dog gets kind or bad. Our main argument for banning the amstaff is simply that it cannot be separated from the pitball. If we are to maintain a ban on pit bull, we believe it is necessary to ban the amstaff. In relation to the Staffordshire bull terrier I can't see that there have been good enough arguments to convince me at least. But that doesn't mean that I think it's completely impossible for the future. What I think is that the department needs to have a much better research basis to express itself on than the department has had so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1588	The proposed Section 19 of this Act is a continuation of the current Fight Dog Act. That promise actually has reason to be proud of. There were not many things, if any, SV advanced and got multiples for in the period 1989-1993, but the prohibition against pitball should honor the Socialist Left Party. On page 18 of the setting, the Labour Party and SV say: ‘However, these members are skeptical of the extension of the racial ban.’ And on page 20 of the setting, the member of the Committee asks from SV ‘The Ministry of the Rapid Prohibition of Wolf Hybrids and American Staffordshire Terrier’. How can this relate? If the Socialist Left Party wants an extension of the racial ban, why can't they support the bill as suggested by the Government, thus maintaining its good dog policy tradition?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1605	It's simply because we think it's too conflicting signals, and that there's too little research compared to knowing for sure what makes sense right here. As far as the amstaff is concerned, the problem, as I said recently, is that it cannot be separated from the already banned pitball, as the representative Aarset rightly points out, was the SV's small battle cause, and perhaps the only winner's cause, between 1989 and 1993. So in the case of wolf hybrids, there's a natural protection argument that says there's a risk of the hybridization of the wolf tribe. It's also about mixing wolves into dogs making these hybrids extra dangerous to humans. It's proven. The Swedes have also banned these two. Then I believe that these two are in a special position for us. In addition, we believe that this should be up to the ministry to assess, but with particular caution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1616	SV was also in line for me very concerned with the term wolf hybrids. I could imagine that the representative Thorkildsen was something more concrete in that context, all the time wolf hybrids in relation to the dog could be everything and nothing. What, for example, with saarlos? And what about schäfer? Where does the border go back in history in relation to the wolf assessment? Another question is: is this true of wild dogs from other parts of the world, or only in relation to Euro-Asian wild dogs? The question is: is this Euro-Asian wolf involved? And what about those on the American continent, and maybe what about dingoes?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1623	I can first refer to the proposition on page 183, and then the representative Kukkestad can read to what races it's about. The dog is basically a predator, of course, and very many of them originate from the wolf. So these are the ones that have been bred in recent times, which we are talking about here. There are two pieces that are specifically mentioned, and it's Czechoslovakian wolf dog and saarloos wolfhound – I'm not found in German, so I'm not quite sure how it's pronounced, but I think it's like that. In Sweden, these two are prohibited. In Norway, saarloos wolfhound is not proposed under the wolf hybrid ban. I think that's wrong. I believe that it should also be covered by this ban. I don't understand why it shouldn't. I believe this opens up for another amstaff/pit bull debate, where one race can be used to camouflage the other race. It's problematic. That is why we are asking for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1630	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1633	We're now at a time of day when most of the dog owners are done venting their dogs, but we may continue to vent our thoughts about dogs for another time. The dog spreads joy, promotes physical and mental health and also serves a number of useful and social purposes. Track dogs save lives, police dogs help detect and solve criminal acts, and guide dogs give blind people a freer and more independent life. In addition, many find good company in a dog and associate with it. Yes, many people in our country live a life of loneliness and lack of contact with other people, but find comfort and support in having their own dog. For me, this has been an important starting point for the work on the dog law. The review by the Judicial Committee of the Government's proposal for dog law has revealed the enormous importance and commitment of dog teams in Norway. Rarely have I received several enquiries from individuals about changes in the law, and rarely have the enquiries been more personal and emotional. Truly, the dogs in Norway have many friends! The government's proposal for a new dog law was initially intended to focus on the safety and environment around dog husbandry. Strong reactions immediately occurred in far more areas than the two mentioned. The dog is said to be man's best friend, but is man the dog's best friend? The vast majority of people in this country have a good relationship with dog and dog teams. There is only an exceptional need to regulate such conditions. That's the problematic dog team the law focuses on. That dogs can cause anxiety and fear and harm people is a regrettable fact. We all know examples of dogs killing and grossly defiled children. Some dog owners act without sufficient care and respect for those who do not want to be close to dogs. Dog owners must be responsible for ensuring that the dog husbandry is sound, for the benefit of both animals and humans. In addition, some dogs are dangerous and may act unpredictableally in given situations. We need clear shelters to be able to kill dogs that pose a danger. The dog law gives us this. Section 19 of the bill deals with the prohibition of dangerous dogs. It is this proposal that has made the most reaction out there among people. We can't define whether the dog is dangerous or not based on appearance. As a boy, I was terrorized by the neighbor's elk dog. To me, the moose was a dangerous dog. Feelings or fears are also not suitable for defining what is meant by a dangerous dog. In its opinion, Norway’s veterinary high school does not provide grounds for racial prohibition. They write: ‘In principle, a ban at race level is unlikely to be appropriate or appropriate. This is because there are neither good tests/definitions/possibilities for the control of breeds and because there is likely to be greater variation within a breed than between breeds in terms of behaviour. Those are the dangerous dogs that you should seek to avoid, not breeds.’ Norway Dog Driving Association states: ‘The breed shall not determine whether the dog-holding is of a sound nature or whether any adverse events are serious. Responsible dogkeeping and serious incidents must be assessed equally independently of the type of dog. We see it as impossible to define which hundred breeds must be considered dangerous or threatening." So this statement comes from people who associate with what can be dangerous dogs every day, i.e. dogs that can bite children to death. When it was made clear that the majority did not want to criminalise individual races by law, the Workers' Party's proposal to provide a regulatory home is a good solution, which the Christian People's Party will provide its subsidiary support. However, I would like to point out the need to constantly balance racial bans between the police's need for control and all the good dog teams in which most breeds are represented. I haven't mentioned any particular races in this context. Races are not the main challenge, but irresponsible and dangerous dog teams. Section 3 of the Dog Act imposes strict requirements on the proper maintenance of dogs. The owner shall ensure that the dog does not harm or frighten people, nor is it a nuisance. Violation of dog-owner care may be punishable by imprisonment for up to six months. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Storting through a strict penalty framework clarifies the dog owner's responsibility for the welfare and behaviour of a dog. Animals in general and dogs in particular shall have good health in their owners. It is both a moral and a legal duty for people to care well for animals. Section 6 of the Animal Protection Act imposes on us all an obligation to provide assistance and alert if we are informed that an animal is suffering. The owner or police of the animal shall be notified as soon as possible. However, the Workers’ Party, the Advance Party and the SV will impose an obligation on health professionals and other authorities to report unacceptable dog teams. This is dramatic! The opposition proposal implies that home help must report to the police a patient who does not treat the dog well. But the same home help has no obligation to report if he/she sees that the patient is not treating his/her child in a desirable way. A child is therefore required to be treated significantly worse than a dog before the obligation of professional secrecy gives rise to the obligation to notify. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is unethical to give dogs better legal protection than humans. I ask myself whether the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the SV are blinded by pressure from the dog owners, or whether they actually believe that dogs have a place between humans and the Spring Lord? I ask the same question when these three parties weaken the ability of people to defend themselves against dogs in an emergency situation. The government proposed that an action against dogs carried out in distress should be acceptable if it was not subsequently concluded that the action ‘obvious’ went beyond what is appropriate. The government's proposal was based on the principle of having an equivalent right to defend oneself against a dog that is against a human being in an emergency situation. But what does the opposition mean? Well, the three same parties think you should have less right to defend yourself against a dog than against a human being in an emergency situation. They have removed the word ‘obvious’ from the legal text. This means that the subsequent monitoring of the emergency response under the dog law becomes stricter than if one has defended itself against a human attack and the act is assessed under the criminal law. Get it, whoever can. The respect and recognition that dogs mean a lot to those who own them and are happy with them has led the Christian People's Party to believe that the Police Directorate should be the appeal authority for decisions taken by the police under the terms of Section 24 of the Dog Act. Administrative remedies are both simpler and cheaper than court proceedings will be. Moreover, a complaint to an administrative body will often involve a shorter period of proceedings than an appeal to the court. A rapid clarification by the Board of Appeal will be in the interests of both the dog and the owner. The decisions of the Directorate of Police shall be enforceable in the courts; that agreement shall be reached in this Chamber. But the Christian People's Party and the Right want decisions involving dogs to be dealt with effectively in the judiciary, and, for the sake of both the dog's economy and the desire for a swift decision, propose a somewhat simplified procedure in the courts. But what will the opposition, the parties that each in its own way claims to be for ordinary people? They submit to court proceedings so time-consuming and so expensive that by far the fewest dog owners will have the financial opportunity to review a decision taken by the Police Directorate of the Court of Justice. You argue based on legal certainty. But the legal certainty that the opposition here describes is not real. Ordinary people can't afford to spend years suing a decision on a dog in the courtroom. Disunity in spite of this: The Storting now adopts a dog law that will be a useful tool for the promotion of a healthy dog husbandry in Norway. The dog's concerns, the owner's concerns, and the safety and protection against unacceptable dog behavior are weighed against each other and well balanced in the new law. I am sure that the dog law will promote the purposes it is set to serve: safety, security and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1684	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1687	The question of review has been raised by several speakers in the debate, and it is presented as if the opposition's majority proposals should be so much more bureaucratic and so much more expensive than what was initially at the bottom. Then I must remind you that instead of a complaint to the Police Directorate, the Government has proposed a complaint to the District Court. There is a very wide range of complaints, where it is to be dealt with in the main proceedings, and, where appropriate, legal proceedings are to be brought at the top of it. You kind of get a double trial in the judicial system, and I can't, with my best will, see that it should be something less bureaucratic and cheaper than getting a simple right to appeal to the Police Directorate, which can normally be tried out in court. Does the representative Holstad not see that it is the Government's proposal that is the most expensive and heavyweight?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1694	I will by no means try to measure my legal competence against Mr. Storbergets. It's obviously different. As far as our proposal is concerned, we differ from the opposition – or call it the majority – to clarify an oral treatment in the district court. That's not what the other three parties say, an ordinary treatment. And through that we perceive that this will be simpler, faster and more reasonable treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1702	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1705	This evening's debate and attitude illustrate just how difficult it is to give the kind of regulation that we are now going to give in the law we are dealing with today. As early as 1997–98, a decision was taken to ask the Government to assess the coordination of the provisions of the legislation on dogs or dogs. It is positive that there is an attempt here to bring together all the legal provisions relating to dog husbandry, which have so far been spread over nine laws. It's an important job to get it done. Nevertheless, it must be said that the process towards the draft law we are discussing today has been deficient, and the final result is also, in the opinion of the Centre Party, associated with many weaknesses. In addition, we have seen that the proposal contained proposals that were not included in the Ministry’s consultation note in 2000, so that a number of issues that are currently under consideration have not been dealt with by the hearing bodies before the proposal was submitted. During the hearings held in Stortinget, many hearing bodies have expressed a fear that there will be unclear legislative proposals that could lead to abuse of the law. There has even been a request from the police to return the entire bill, as one considers it difficult to handle for the police. A new review has also been requested by legal expertise because the law was unclear. It has also been pointed out during the consultation process that the legislative proposal has been unbridled and that there may be some conflict with other legislation. It is against this background that the Central Party takes up its proposal that the law should be sent back to the Government for a review and presentation to the Stortinget. We can see that some aspects have been improved through the Committee's work, but ideally, the Central Party believes that the Legal Department should be set to do the job again, based on the comments the Committee has made today. It is such that the Committee should not do the job that has been done so far today. It is not the case that the Judicial Committee should act as a department. Instead of adopting a law as it appears today, the law should be returned and promoted again for the Stortinget. Now I understand from a few articles that we cannot count on special support for our proposal. Subsidiary therefore, the Centre Party will support the proposals that lead to changes to the proposed proposal, and that is, to a large extent, the majority voting. Much of what has been said here today, I agree. I really believe that many of the parties agree on a desire for both better animal protection in relation to dog husbandry and better safety in relation to dog husbandry. We are largely united about the desire to prevent a mad dog team and to promote a responsible dog team. But I'm just like what's been said by some other parties here, concerned that making a law ban on individual breeds can send a signal that doesn't address the real problem, which might as well be how one practices today's dog team, and how the dog keeper behaves like having a dog. That's where the real challenges of a future dog law lie. The central party therefore shares the majority’s view that, instead of basing itself on the prohibition of specific breeds beyond what is currently prohibited, one should raise the question of greater variations within a breed or be able to act more strongly linked to the individual dog holder. We therefore share the view contained in the Workers' Party's proposal that one should be able to make a specific prohibition according to regulations rather than making it in the kind of legal prohibition imposed by the Government. When the Central Party makes proposals for return, it is because we believe that the Ministry should sit down and work through the law better, based on the comments made by the Committee today, which are partly unanimous, that this is consistent with everything else in the law, that the scope of interpretation is not so great as it is today, that a proper consultation process is provided on all sides of the law, and that a get the best possible procedural rules. The doubt that is here today, and the debate we have today on the procedural rules, should in itself indicate that the ministry should have taken a fresh look at these points. Subsidized, the Central Party will support the majority voting. We also want to support the Labour Party's proposal, No. 3Proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community, to members of their families moving within the Community, to members of their families moving within the Community, to members of their families
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1726	The representative of Marit Arnstad has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. No one has asked for the word to appear.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1731	Odelstinget is currently dealing with a matter that means a lot to many people in everyday life. Most people get in touch with dogs, whether they're the owner of one of the country's nearly 400,000 dogs, or by meeting them outdoors. The dog team is very happy for a lot of people – for some people it is almost so that it is the dog that keeps them up. But unfortunately, there are also many examples of dog teams that cause inconvenience, whether they are neighbors or passersby who are offended or attacked by a dog. As you know, we have unfortunately had tragedies that have raised serious questions about the safety of children in relation to dogs. We have long had strict rules and a wide access to killing dogs that attack buffalo, poultry and tamrein. It has not been as easy to intervene against a dog that has attacked a human being. This is an important part of the background to the fact that, following the suspension of the Judicial Committee five years ago, the Government asked for a review of the practice of the provisions on the killing of dogs and, where appropriate, for proposals for legislative changes, including: to ensure the effectiveness of the rules of the Battle Dog Act of 1991. Furthermore, it is a fact that the law on dogs today is very widespread, and the Stortinget therefore asked the Government to consider coordinating the rules. There is such a collective law on a safe dog team that Odelstinget has to debate today. The specific rules for dogs in five different laws lapse. But it will still be that some other laws have an impact on our relationship with dogs, and I would particularly like to point out the rules of the Animal Protection Act. There has been a broad commitment during the preparation of the law and a large public debate on the Government's proposals. Anyone who thinks it would be easy to gather everyone wide in this matter should go back and read the debates over the years on these kinds of questions. One will find many of the same arguments, you meet them all the time, and then someone has to ultimately use discretion and deal with the matter, whether it's a department or what the Storting has done. I think the commitment and the public debate are positive, because that's how a collective law provides more visible rules, and it might also have come as a surprise to some how strict rules we already have in some important areas. I am pleased that the Committee is in line with the main objectives behind the Government's legislative proposals. I also note with satisfaction that the Committee agrees that there is a need to strengthen legislation against problematic dog husbandry. I agree with the Committee that rules that ensure everyone's safety will promote understanding of the good dog team. This law has shown that it can be a dilemma to produce a law that is clear and informative to people in a field that many people need to know. The draft hearing, which in its time was sent out from the Ministry of Justice, had provisions that were scarce in form and were criticised for providing too little concrete guidance. Government bill in Ot.prp. No 48 are therefore more complete and more concrete and precise in order to provide better guidance in the many different situations that can arise with dogs, but have not avoided criticism for that reason. In order to avoid misunderstandings, I therefore agree on several points with the proposals for adjustments made by the Committee. This applies, for example: the definition of what is regarded as material injury to a person and that the dog must continue to present a clear hazard before anyone can kill a dog that has caused material injury to a person. On other points, however, I believe that the Committee has not entirely succeeded in fulfilling the intentions shared by the Committee and the Ministry. The government has as its starting point that dog husbandry is a natural part and, in general, a positive part of Norwegian tradition and everyday life. The Dog Act must focus on the conflict face. However, it is not such that all disadvantages are of such a nature or of such a nature that they must be regulated in the form of law. There are in particular two issues that have shaped the debate after the proposition was put forward. One is the question of the killing of a dog after specific situations in which the dog has attacked or bitten humans or animals. Dog owners who experience that their dog is aggressive often take responsibility for themselves in such a way that there is no need for interference by the authorities. But some dog owners do not take this responsibility seriously, and then there is a need for regulation. Today, a person who has been bitten must even sue the courts and request a dog to be killed. This is an unsustainable additional burden. The bill states that it is the police who decide to kill, and then it will be up to the owner to accuse this. It is Section 18 on ex-post killing that aims in particular at this situation. According to the Government’s proposal, the general rule under the first paragraph of Section 18 will be that the police have discretionary access to the decision to kill when it does not appear to be a disproportionate measure, if the dog has attacked or injured a person or deer game, domestic animal, domestic animal or other dog. In addition, the Government proposes the rules in the fourth paragraph of Section 18 that in some situations killing should normally happen, even if in no way is an absolute rule. This is primarily a situation where the dog has caused material harm to children or damage to domestic animals and domestic animals. I have noticed that the majority does not propose to legislate for the proportionality requirement that it underlines in the notes on the fourth paragraph of Section 18. I therefore believe that the majority emphasises that neither the killing under the fourth paragraph of Section 18 shall take place automatically, but require a specific assessment. The second issue that has created a lot of debate is whether some types of dogs are more dangerous than others. Dogs are bred and kept for different purposes. Unfortunately, some dog types have a history where they have been bred and trained for battle, against each other, against other animals or against humans. When the ban on pit bull terrier came in 1991, it was widely agreed — including in dog organisations — that this breed had such characteristics that it was not wanted in Norway. Already then there was a warning against American Staffordshire terriers, which could be confused with pit bull terriers. Some of the same points of view apply in relation to Staffordshire bullterries. In some environments, these dog types and mixtures are included, kept and trained for defence and attack. These dogs spread fear in their neighbourhoods and are also even suffering. I note that the majority of the committee, through what has been decided in the debate, does not want to legislate, but that a ban must be laid down in a regulation. The Government will therefore, at the hearing, submit proposals for such a regulation in the light of the Committee's views. But to ensure that the law can come into force without any gaps, it is necessary that the regulation under the Battle Dog Act can continue to apply until a new regulation is adopted, and I also perceive that there is a majority in the Chamber for the additional proposal made to achieve that very purpose. In its bill, the government has stressed the importance of bringing the authority together under the dogs law of the municipality and the police. Dog-holding conflicts are largely local in nature. The question of bonding is therefore to a large extent appropriate for municipal rules. Municipal autonomy is, as you know, the basic position of the Government in a number of cases. I note that the majority would like it to be possible to complain about such regulations to the county council. I would just like to point out that a right of appeal over regulations is something special in the Norwegian administrative tradition. As regards the rules on coercion, the Committee proposes a new derogation in point (f) of the first paragraph of Section 9 of the proposal to allow a dog to be used freely for hunting, hunting dog training and hunting tests between 20 August and 1 April, and to prevent the use of a hunting dog in open-air and recreational areas or in the interest of livestock for grazing. This could probably create increased conflicts between dog owners on the one hand and the agricultural industry and tour operators on the other. These are questions that, in my opinion, the municipalities have the best assumptions to be able to assess. Overall, the proposals of the Committee of the Regions could lead to increased administrative burdens on the police and the Police Directorate. In practice, this could mean a potential decrease in efforts for other police purposes. When the Committee, in its observations, states that there should be a right of appeal to the overall prosecution authority over immediate police action under Section 17, I understand that this is a complaint to the Police Directorate, since this is a police administrative decision that has nothing to do with the exercise of the prosecution authority. However, the adjustment made by the Committee in the introductory part of the second paragraph of Section 17 I believe that the police law could be used as an independent basis for immediate intervention. Finally, I should like to say a few words on the proposals for major decisions that the committee or its majority is behind. If the proposal to impose the labelling of dogs is adopted, this will of course be followed up by the Government. On the other hand, I would like to signal some concerns in the proposal on reporting obligations for health professionals and public officials who are in positions of irreprehensibility in relation to where they would otherwise have legal confidentiality obligations. In the case of health professionals in particular, there may be reason to warn against the intrusion of professional secrecy, so that people do not let go of health care because they fear that something will then happen to their dog. It was this that made me – as stated in the proposition, page 155 – not proposing an obligation for doctors to report to the police about dog bites. I have, of course, taken note of the proposal that has been put forward, and that proposal will have a majority in this Chamber today. Finally, I would like to say the following: all in all, the Committee's proposal for a new dog law, which is based mainly on the proposition, will provide a better regulation for preventing and dealing with unfortunate and dangerous situations, especially between dogs and humans. The legislative proposal and the Committee's position show that being a dog owner is a great responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1767	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1770	Since the member of the government coalition in the matter, the representative Dybevig, has made a number of it, I would like to be confirmed by the Minister of Justice if it has any significance that we now have a large number of people who say no to the ban on a number of breeds, when he is going to design the regulations from the ministry, and which he is going to send out to the hearing. Do the views of the majority of the population in this way have any meaning? The second thing I think it would be natural to get an explanation about is whether the Government's proposal in relation to the possibility to review the decisions under Section 25 and where you outline a right to appeal to the courts means that you do not have the usual administrative power to review them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1777	There's two questions here. To the first question: Given that the Storting decides to choose a regulation, we will of course follow it, but the Government will also base the debate. And in this debate, the government parties have supported a proposal that would mean a ban. At the same time, the representative of Thorkildsen, on behalf of SV, has made clear his views on some breeds. This will mean that those views naturally follow the work of the Government, but there will be no easy procedure on this. We are obliged to promote a regulation that has been thoroughly addressed. That is why a transitional rule is presented here today. Of course, that's the way we have to control it. So briefly, the government's proposal to use the district court is to reflect today's situation. There, the person who has been harmed must go to the right to acquit. Then we turn to use the legal system to possibly stop the police from operating. We have even thought that it was a simple procedure with legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1786	SV has a proposal to ensure that prohibited animals are sterilised, labelled and registered. I wonder why it is a difficult proposal to support. I also wonder – as the department is in favour of a quite comprehensive ban on breeds – how to in practice, for example. shall prevent breeding on the breeds which are prohibited. Breeding on them shall be prohibited, but no registration and sterilisation requirements have been imposed to date. How, then, should this ban be maintained in practice? In addition, I would like to ask the Council of State if the department has learned a little bit from this process in relation to being more thorough the next time a law comes to the Stortinget, so that we don't spend a lot of time missing ambiguities, because it only creates an acidic mood in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1793	First, the proposal to immediately kill animals which, on the government's proposal, could have been banned: it is that we proposed transitional rules that allowed the animals that were there to live. We then trusted the dog keepers that it would be respected. We found no reason to go to work so drastically. The consequence was that the animals that were there would – as long as they behaved peacefully – be there, but it was further breeding that was forbidden. So we're based on trust in dog keepers, which we thought we expressed in our own proposal. As far as the process is concerned, we believe that we have actually done a very large amount of work. The temperature in the debate can be read up to, but I just have to say that as a government council I have at least registered one thing with wonder: there has not been a written question from the committee on this matter. Of course, asking the committee about something puts the department on the spot. But I still feel that the committee has worked intensively on the basis of meetings and documents to get a good law, and I am pleased to note that, as I also did in my opening post.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1800	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1803	After hearing most of the speeches in the debate here tonight, I want to go back a few years and remember what is the basis for today's discussion of proposals for new dog law. In February 1998, the representative Jon Olav Alstad and I promoted Document No. 8:71 for the non-discrimination of dogs that attack buffalo and children. We did that because we had received a number of enquiries from parents with children who had been bitten by dogs. None of these we could read anything particularly about in the newspapers. The great tragedies we've heard of happened later. The reason these parents approached us was that the dog's owner had not had good enough control of the dog or had left the dog alone with unattended children, and then the child had suffered bit damage. What we did not receive was bit or scratch of puppies that had happened in connection with toys or small accidents, which often happens when you have puppies. We who are dog owners know that when we have puppies with teeth like claws, we cannot avoid biting. There has never been any mention of such cases. We never received any enquiries about that either. The representative Alstad and I were pleased when, after discussing our proposal, the Judicial Committee found that the law in question was very unwieldy and divided into many laws. I refer to: the penal law § 354, which deals with dogs that attack people, the temporary law prohibiting the introduction, keeping and breeding of dangerous dogs, the law on liability for damage to the buffalo by dogs, the law on animal health protection, the law on reindeer management, the law on damages, the law on wildlife and the law on environmental protection at Svalbard. Bandwagon for all dogs, applicable from 1 April to 20 August, is regulated by the Game Act. So these were all the laws that people were going to deal with. It was no wonder that those who had problems never found out, and that nothing was done about it. We were therefore satisfied when the committee asked the government to assess coordination of the laws that referred to the dog in the law, and we were very satisfied with the job that was subsequently done. We are equally pleased that the Ministry of Justice has followed up and promoted a proposal for its own dog law, which is now under consideration. There has been a good job done by many in this case. There has been a great deal of commitment to the Justice Committee. We're very happy about that. But I'm still somewhat surprised at the level of a part of the debate that's been going on in the dog environment. I've had a dog myself for many years, and I know the environments relatively well. I am very pleased that the Norsk Kennel Club has kept its head on and held a debate that has been real in this situation. It is in other environments that you have experienced an exaggeration that has been quite incredible in some contexts. I would like to pay tribute to the Minister of Justice who has managed to stay in the dark through some of the debates in which he has participated. It can't have been easy. So children who had been attacked and bitten were the starting point for our proposal that time. I think it should be in the back of my mind when one also discusses the proposals that are being discussed today. There are many reasons why dogs bite, and we can discuss why. But if the dog's owner had taken responsibility, I think most of these matters would have been avoided. As a dog owner, I know how important it is that the dog can be with children, and not least that children are given the opportunity to be with a dog. It's a good assignment, but it has to be done in controlled forms. When children grow up to understand, they also need to be informed about how to behave to a dog. Young children who do not have the opportunity to learn such things should not be left alone with dogs. If everyone had followed these basic rules, we would have avoided a lot of problems. In addition, I can inform Odelstinget that the Business Committee has today given an opinion on the notification of St. No 12, About animal husbandry and animal welfare. Dog is also mentioned there. Although we are not going to discuss it today, but later next week, a joint committee has now given the breeder the responsibility to provide good information to those who buy a dog or other family or pet. It is important that those who know the breed they sell know that they sell a dog to the right kind of people. The same applies to those who negotiate other things. Information and knowledge-building are key words in this debate. I think it's important that everyone follows that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1830	I've until recently believed that a dogman was a dog who was in love with another dog. But after working on the dog law and the reactions of people with dogs, I realized that I was very wrong. There has been a broad commitment to the government's legislative proposals. It's positive. A collective law gives clearer rules, and that's good. Many of the requests received by the Justice Committee in this matter have been from people who want to get a comprehensive law that can be understood and that can be used. As this bill shows, being a dog owner is a big responsibility. For the Right, it has been important to provide better regulation to prevent and deal with unfortunate and dangerous situations, especially between dogs and humans. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Progressive Party, have held the tab high to clarify the content of the dog law. With the head of Mr. Knut Storberget, the majority have claimed that they are concerned not to create unnecessary misunderstandings in this law. Now I've spent some time getting involved in this law, but for me it's actually so that with this bill on the table it might have just become even more confusing. I will take an example and read the majority's proposal for a new paragraph 14, third paragraph, point (b): ‘When a dog hunts or attacks domestic animals or domestic animals that graze legally, or when the dog attacks another dog unprovoked, the owner, keeper or caregiver of the animal may intervene against the dog that appears necessary to prevent injury, provided that the procedure does not go beyond what is necessary and not beyond what is appropriate. This provision may not be invoked when the animal being hunted or attacked has been in possession of property which the dog keeper disposes of.» I believe that the Workers' Party is doing exactly the opposite of what they're saying, and that the Storberget is doing the opposite of what he's gone high on the track with. The dog law doesn't get clearer, and it doesn't prevent misunderstandings, on the contrary. In fact, I think you've made sure that the law is even more confusing to people. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Progressive Party are also introducing something new into the legislation at this point. They include in their proposal a clarification on domestic or domestic animals as ‘poultry legally’. Then my question is, how does a domestic know that it grazes legally? What happens to tamrein that doesn't legally graze, it becomes wild? I cannot see that the level of precision in the law is getting particularly better with this amendment by the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Progress Party, and unfortunately I do not think I am alone on that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1850	This is a comment on Thorkildsen's definition of breeds, hybrids and hybrids, because SV wants a ban on, among others. Wolf hybrids. It's unclear what SV means by hybrids. Do they mean purebred, according to what is in the file from the Government? Do they mean what they say with hybrids, or do they mean bastards? The Directorate for Nature Management states that there is already a ban on crossing wolves and dogs. Czechoslovak wolf dog is a purebred dog and not hybrid. Wolf hybrids do not exist because wolf and dog are the same species. It's mixture, in other words, a bastard, and they're reproductive. The second example is the mixture of horse and donkey, mule, which is not capable of reproduction. It's a hybrid. If it is that we have wolf hybrids in Norway, this is not a problem, because they cannot reproduce further, and we would very easily be able to eradicate them. SV also wants a ban on amstaff because the appearance of it is similar to pit bull terriers. This testifies that SV obviously did not understand that there is an extended monitoring of DNA information on amstaff. This unique DNA material will disappear, and it will be completely impossible in the future to use DNA information to counter dogs smuggled to Norway or bred illegally. It must be clear that where prohibitions exist, illegal markets develop at higher prices as a result of bans and rarity. I have rarely seen such good drag help to promote illegalities as this proposal from SV. Now I don't think seriously that SV wants to promote illegal markets, but that will be a consequence of the proposal. As a matter of fact, I would also like to point out that I cross the border with Sweden at least three times every month with dogs in the car. I have only been stopped once in three years by the Tollvesenet at a legally crossroads and asked to show registration documents, pedigree and owner documents on my dogs. This tells me that taking dogs from Sweden, Finland or Russia into Norway is so simple that it's completely ridiculous. We know that pitbull, for example, is legal in Sweden. It is a perfectly legitimate breed to buy in Sweden and could enter Norway. This creates a problem when we don't have the DNA material that is necessary to separate them out. We have forbidden that by removing amstaff as a breed. We also have a very long border with Sweden, Finland and Russia. In Russia, there is actually no ban at all. That's why I think it would have been an advantage when you go out in the press, and as strongly as Thorkildsen has done here today, you see a little bit more about the consequences of the proposals you're really fighting for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1863	I have followed the debate on the changes in the dog law outside this house. The father that I haven't got everything with me is absolutely present. My impression is that it has essentially been about the race ban. First of all, it's about dangerous dogs, and maybe little about how they evolve into dangerous dogs. In my opinion, the changes in the laws may have come on a somewhat odd basis. The legislative changes should perhaps be the subject of a wider consultation round before they were promoted to the Stortinget. There is a strong and important interest in dog husbandry in hunting and outdoor and recreational activities. This seems to me to have emerged little in the public debate on the changes. From my point of view, dog teams have many positive sides that have their natural place in Norwegian society. I've grown up with hunting dogs, and I've had hunting dogs all my adult life. Can you imagine a beautiful harvest day with mountain ranges in its most beautiful coloring beauty, a bird dog in intense search and subsequent trembling condition before it receives the command to travel the birds? A more beautiful view shall be sought for a long time. Or a clear harvest day where you sit and listen to the hare dog's bell sound in the lines. For many of us, these are the big highlights of the year. We look forward to it and train our dogs to make these days memorable and healthful for body and soul. I'm going to say that most dog keepers are responsible. I know how difficult it is to decide that a dog must be killed, if it is a danger to its environment. But this is a responsibility every dog owner has to take. This is accompanied inexorably by the acquisition of a dog. I have had to make such decisions myself. Here's the leading commodity principle that applies. I agree with the majority that it is important that we get a legal text that does not create confusion outside of people. Therefore, it is important that the clarifications made by the Committee and by the majority are made. I find some comments on the use of tape. It is important that municipalities themselves have the possibility to define and define areas for the use of band compulsions. At the same time, it is important that hunting and outdoor interests are safeguarded. In exceptional circumstances requiring banding in order to protect the game, it is important that banding is established only for those areas where the game wishes to protect has its area of life. We have seen in winter that some places were forced to band to protect deer even in the high mountain, where there are naturally no deer. In such cases it would be natural to grant derogations for areas above the tree line. Therefore, it is important, as the majority argues, that a possibility is introduced for, inter alia, the introduction of band-forces under point (f)(6). a cross-disciplinary assessment of the decision of the municipality by way of appeal to the county council. It is also positive that the Committee focuses on the possibilities for hunting dog training, dressage and testing. It is correct to point out that mountain guides must have the necessary competence to consent to the training of hunting dogs in the field of the general public. These are important activities for many hunting dog owners who are involved in developing a good and positive dog team. Finally, I would like to say that I really hope that the debate we have now had, among other things. in the media, leads to a dog law that unites and does not split.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1886	"I will never again beat the dog, but knock it gently," we sang when I was a child. In view of the developments in dog teams we have had, among others: with martial arts, one might wonder what the contents of such a children's song would have been like if it had been made today. Two of my family members are dogs. This has been the case for many years. They are our best friends and absolutely necessary for hunting, cuddly as tourmates and as photo motifs. There are too many, and I am therefore very pleased that the possibility of having a bikkja loose when a journey in the woods and mountains, is secured, and I will commend the case rapporteur for well done craftsmanship. In principle, there is banding all year long, in the sense that you should always have control of your bikkja. We say "bitch" on my side of the country, but since it's called dog team law, it becomes a bit of a language mix on my side. I assume that the bikini are dressed to be let go – not just with sheep's watch as a requirement, but with general obedience and good habits. We who have a dog, know that it is necessary to perform a dressage throughout the life of a bikini. When I was stuck on the Stortinget, and was away from home all week, I had to wear an active dressage when I came home. The bikes tried to take over my status in the flock by being disobedient, so there were some rounds of ‘sit’ and ‘tyre’ and obedience training constantly gone. Nor do I like to meet strangers without the owner being nearby. A good biker is you only when you're on your bike. Basically, there's banding all year long, that is, if you have a bike loose, you're going to be close, it's going to sound like you and you're going to have full control. It's a lot of fun having a bike, but it's also a big responsibility that you should be aware of. Unfortunately, we have seen serious incidents in irresponsible dogkeeping. It has helped to trigger strong negative feelings in many. But it is the owner who has failed, you can't owe it to the bikini if it has an irresponsible owner. It's good that we now get clear rules for who can kill a bike. Unnecessary killing must not take place, while ensuring emergency services. Sometimes a bike says from when it feels threatened, and it can be experienced as threatening by someone who is a bit frightened. We can experience a little bit of murmuring when a child in ignorance sticks it in his eyes, smells or tears it in his tail. In my view, you should never let little children play with dogs alone. They can ignore or fail to understand signals such as the murmuring and display of teeth, and then scratch or bite perhaps the bikini in self-defense. Extended band enforcement shall be possible, where necessary, according to municipal decisions and the use of discretion. But the municipalities have to use discretion with wit! The increased use of band compulsion in open air areas in the autumn after 20 August is premature when a certified sheep pike. There is something else when game has to be protected because of large amounts of snow in winter. Unnecessary use of band compulsions in tourist and open-air areas results in poorer quality of life for bikes. A well-dressed bike – together with its owner – in free play is an enrichment for health and a good life.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1903	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1906	No Marte Thorkildsen had run out against the undersigned in the debate. It was about whether we should sterilize the dogs if we impose a legal ban on them. Thus, the SV’s proposal is to sterilise the animals and to have a ‘certificate of registration stating the name and address of the owner and showing that the dog has been bred, introduced or kept before the entry into force of the law’. And then SV says the following: ‘If the conditions are violated or the dogs attack people, the dogs shall be killed by decision of the police.’ That's what I said instead, and that's what I thought was an unworthy way of treating the dogs. We want a law ban and say it clearly. The working party and SV try to blur it through their comments. When attacking one’s ‘bad way of dealing with the facts’, I also think that one should read and understand one’s own comments, which, in my opinion, reveal unfortunate consequences about SV’s proposal being enforced.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1916	Actually, I don't understand why the Right representatives in this case should try to maximize the crisis and make so much conflict out of it. After hearing the representative, Linda Cathrine Hofstad, who is now preparing the amendments, I have to ask: why does the Right support more than 90 pst? of the amendments tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs? This applies to: Amendment to the Introductory Amendment to the Definition, which is very important amendments to the management proposals of the board of directors in relation to hunting and hunting-hundredths training proposals in relation to the regulation on the number of dogs, which is very important and imposes on the Government, supported by the High-level criminal framework issue of killing The important provision in Section 15 is also fully supported by the Right. Then you end up with this section 14, where the question is whether it is legal or not to graze. Is it like the words that would make this law a bad law? Actually, I think the Minister of Justice and some other speakers have hit the nail quite well on their heads. We have managed to reconcile a good law, and the signal from here tonight should be that we have managed to create a law that will work out. Of course, as far as Section 14 is concerned, there are none of us in the majority constellation who have intended that the animals should know whether they are grazing illegally or not. There has never been a problem. The question is whether those who own the animal should be so guided as to ensure that the animal is in an area where it has the right to be. It's no wonder that some of us believe that if a dog hunts a sheep that has entered another man's property, you should not have the same right to intervene against the dog as if you were outside the fence. You shouldn't be born and raised so far outside Oslo or Trondheim to understand such a logic.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1955	I'm sorry to have to disappoint the assembly, but I have to take a little clarification here, as far as Carsten Dybevig is concerned. For information only, I can tell you that in the proposition from the department it is stated in Section 20, which deals with exemptions from the ban on dangerous dogs, the following under (a): ‘If the conditions are violated or the dogs attack people, the dogs shall be killed by decision of the police.’ So it's under d: ‘If the conditions laid down, violated, the dog may be killed or imposed by the State by decision of the police.’; So twice the exceptions in Section 20 have been included. So I dare ask for a slightly higher level of precision in this debate! It would have been nice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1970	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 635]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1986	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e1993	I'll be very short. The majority of the Committee's comments, as read in the section, have fallen to the following proposals: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up legislative proposals to allow non-governmental organisations to require a limited police record of their employees.The Government is asking the Government to make such a proposal as soon as possible.’ This is a debate that has followed us in the committee for a while and has also been out in public space. I think that is a reason – and I think that is part of the motivation for the majority as well – to refer to the comments made by the department in the letter to the Committee on the matter which, of course, makes a lot of sense, first and foremost the reference to the fact that the certificate can be an appropriate instrument, but not only. And it should be discussed to the greatest extent where the limits should go in relation to the requirement for a certificate. In this way, you give little guidance to the proposals of the Advance Party, and also to the setting, where you can, among other things. speaks of ‘to hold a post’ in the voluntary organisations. Then you would quickly be able to exclude a good lot of people just for that reason. Firstly, there is good reason to discuss — and the ministry should look at this work — the organisations you can imagine in relation to such a certificate requirement, and in that way the number of persons covered by it. The Committee has said that those persons should have “significant” trust and responsibility towards minors, and that should certainly be a minimum requirement. It is also necessary to clarify the question of limitations in this certificate — what the certificate should contain. For the Workers' Party, it has not been so important to break the structure of the Criminal Registration Act, just to get it in place, and to make it an appropriate system that can work. In that context, I would like to end up with a heart attack regarding this type of debate. We also have one in relation to questions of transparency in registers, etc. It might be appropriate to have a more general debate in relation to where to require a certificate at all, instead of constantly expanding the area or simply taking it piece by piece and divided according to new needs. Because, as the Minister of Justice is also involved in his letter of reply to the Committee, there is a clear need to set a limit. We can't have a society that ultimately relies on each of us having some chip in our back or a certificate in our pocket to show that we're good people. We didn't want to get that far either, because most of those who commit an assault have no comments on their certificates.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e2009	Children and young people are vulnerable. Therefore, it is so important that children and parents can have full confidence in those who work with children and young people. The right is concerned with the safety of the children and will do what we can to prevent people who have been punished for past crimes of morality from being given tasks that could endanger the safety of their children. Today, a police record is required for employment in kindergartens, primary schools and in the field of pediatrics. This is an important prevention measure that can prevent convicted offenders from getting close contact with children in a way that may increase the likelihood of abuse. I would like to stress that a claim for a police certificate alone does not guarantee that a person is fit to work with children and young people. It only provides information if you have been punished in the past or are under investigation for such circumstances. Unfortunately, not all cases are reported, and the evidence is not always sufficient for a conviction. However, in cases where the submission of a police certificate may prevent an infringement, this is an important and appropriate measure for certain groups, according to the Court’s assessment. Most adults in sport, the speeding movement and other organisations are involved in unremunerated and unremunerated efforts. We therefore hope that a demand for a police certificate will not be hampered and negative for the voluntary involvement among people. It is therefore essential for the majority to state in its observations the importance of clarifying the positions of non-governmental organisations for which a police record may be required, and for the position to be ‘substantial’ to imply a trust and responsibility towards minors. This allows the police to make clear legislation for issuing police certificates and for sensitive information not to be disseminated. It is also necessary for the employer to clarify that the requirement for a police record must be established in advance by the contracting entity in order to ensure equality between applicants for a job. The Criminal Registration Act opens today for a police record to be issued if it is provided by law or by clear legal basis that a person must demonstrate that he has committed an honest conduct, is not previously convicted or otherwise convicted. The provisions of the law also specify the purposes for which such a certificate is to be issued. Finally, I would just like to remind you that this must be just one of many measures to prevent children from being subjected to abuse. At the same time, I must also be allowed to say that I am pleased that an overall justice department throughout its work at least during this period prioritises these matters so highly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e2028	It goes against night, and I'll make it no longer than most necessary. But for the Progress Party, it has been and will still be an important issue to fight for the safety and security of children. We will do that with all the instruments we have within the law that exist in this country at all times. It could sometimes be that one detects a failure of the system, and then at least we will feel an obligation to grasp it and try to make changes, to constantly aim for things to be better and safer. Then I get a little thought when the representative from the right re-examines the fact that you are afraid this should be obstructing. Opening up that thought concerns me as we refocus on the adults, you focus on the organisations, that this may lead to fewer volunteers. But if any of the fewer volunteers are people who would have exposed the children to something that we don't want to happen, this tool is a very positive, at least from our point of view. Then the representative of Storberget stated that it would be appropriate to have an overall debate, and we would like to take it. We'd like to take it when it comes. What is important, at least, is that you always focus on caring for your children. Like I said, nothing should be unruly about it. That is why it is perhaps the Progress Party that should be most pleased with the result that is present here today, because this has been a long process in the Committee. If the respective parties go by themselves, maybe with one exception, you'll see that the result that's here now is not what you obviously believed in initially. There has been a process in which the parties have done themselves, but the result that exists seems to us to have been a good result. But it's taken jammy time in the committee to agree, essentially, what's here now. It's obvious that things take time sometimes, but when we think about them, we make good decisions. We're going to do that tonight, too. That is why I am not going to dwell on this, but I am going to address our minority proposal, and when it has fallen counter-probably, we will subsidiaryly support the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e2035	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e2038	One of the most important tasks we have as politicians and as adults is to create safe growth conditions for the children. Children shall be safe at home, in kindergarten, at school, together with child protection employees and with representatives of non-governmental organisations engaged in child and youth work. We contribute to such security by giving employers the opportunity to require police clearance as conditions for certain employment. The law opens today. Police certification requirements should, however, also be able to be made prior to employment in voluntary sector posts which substantially imply trust and responsibility towards minors. The Christian People's Party wants the Government to make the necessary regulatory changes as soon as possible to ensure this. The requirement for police attestations for persons working with children and young people is an important measure to prevent abuse. Through this, we can prevent people who have been punished in the past for moral crimes from being given tasks that bring them into contact with children in such a way that abuse can take place. But it's naive to think that by opening up demands for police clearance, we eliminate the possibility of child abuse. A police record only tells whether a person has been convicted in the past, and can therefore only be one of several means of preventing children from being subjected to abuse. The vast majority of offenders are never revealed, and for this reason, a requirement for a police record will only mean that a small number of offenders are excluded from positions where contact with children is central. In this context, I would like to add that when last time, not so long ago, we had a debate on this with a certificate for people who were supposed to be in contact with children, the Christian People's Party underlined the fact that most abuses occur where there is a relationship of knowledge and perhaps also a relationship between the offender and the child. It is therefore necessary to be aware that such formalities as we put up here have a limited effect. However, it is important that voluntary organisations are given a limited opportunity to require police clearance of persons who are considered to be in positions involving extensive contact with children. If this option is not provided to the voluntary sector, it is likely that potential intermediaries will attract the voluntary sector. And that doesn't want any of us to happen. I am pleased that a clear majority of people are behind the proposal to grant access to the voluntary organisations to require police certification of a limited number of their employees. This is ready for the best for the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e2056	On the SV side, we think this is the right action. We were uncertain at the beginning for just some of the reasons that the representative Storberget has drawn up, that there must be a limit to the extent of the requirement for a police record, but above all because we were anxious that this would be a sleep cushion for the organizations. But then we had meetings, among others. With Fear Barna, and we came to the conclusion that when the organizations are so aware that this is not going to be a sleep cushion, it was right to go in for a warrant for the organisations to require a limited police record. At the same time, I would say that the proposal of the Progress Party does not want the organisations to be implemented. At least Redd Barna doesn't want it, and that's because they're afraid that the proposal will affect voluntary engagement, because it's going to be too bureaucratically simple. They want a different variant. It was therefore for the sake of the organisations' wishes that we from SV chose to formulate what is now being adopted. I wish there was an equally strong commitment that was shown in a number of other contexts regarding sexual abuse against children, such as this proposal by the Progress Party, and through which the Progress Party has fought for a long time, among other things. what is involved in the treatment of offenders. The fact that a part of the sea has been attacked, commits an assault on adult seafarer, I think is a topic that we should definitely address, especially when we know that some of the psychologists who are dealing with these people, among other things. Thore Langfeldt Foundation, Institute for Clinical Sexology and Therapy, is struggling. There are some obstacles in the way that they should be able to do a good job. The incest centers are struggling. Some kindergartens, too, are struggling financially. I think that is also a problem in this area that we should care about, despite the fact that much of it does not fall within the area of the Justice Committee. We are glad that we are now given these organisations the opportunity to demand a limited police record, but we stress that it is only a very small tool that in itself will not reveal more than a few cases, and probably almost none.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e2067	I am concerned about the safety of children and young people and I agree that we need to do what we can to prevent people who have been punished in the past for moral crimes from getting tasks that bring them into contact with children in such a way that new abuses can take place. It is important that we have full confidence in people working with children and young people, and not least this applies to situations where the adult spends time alone with the child, without control from others. The requirement for a police record of employment in kindergarten, primary school, child protection and admission to studies where the student comes into contact with kindergarten children, etc., is a step in the right direction. In this context, I would like to mention that the Ministry of Justice has recently introduced a change in the criminal record regulation that allows municipalities to require police clearance when adding persons who are to provide services to minors under social services law. This includes, inter alia: relievers and support contacts for disabled and chronically ill children and children with mental health problems. The regulation, drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, enters into force on 1 June, provided that it is subsequently replaced by a separate law of the Social Services Act. I would also like to mention that the Ministry of Justice has been in contact with the Ministry of Health regarding access to a police record when employed in the health service. A police record for this purpose is not likely to be limited only to sexual abuse of children, but should also include drug law offences and profit crime. This will be further assessed in the further work. However, I would like to stress again that the presentation of a ‘clean’ police certificate is not in itself a guarantee that he is fit to carry out tasks related to work with children and young people. Police records will only indicate whether a person has been previously punished for specified circumstances or whether he is under investigation for such circumstances, if any. For this reason, it should be clarified that the requirement for a police record should only be a supplement to other information relating to him, for example: information from himself or his references. With regard to the majority’s proposal for an authorisation to allow voluntary organisations to require limited police clearance of their employees, I will continue to work on this and contact the departments concerned and the voluntary organisations. I have noticed that the organisations themselves want such access, and that they will cooperate to develop a self-declaration that will be suitable for everyone with organisational work aimed at children and young people. In my opinion, such a self-declaration will be an important addition to a police record, and the organisations show on this initiative that they have a responsible and serious attitude to the issue. It will be necessary to provide some clarifications as to which organisations and activities are required to require a police record and as to what position is required for a certificate to be required. Nor should we forget that the issue of a police record disseminates person-sensitive information, and we must ensure that the information is processed, stored and mashed in a proper manner. Since there is likely to be a significant number of applications per year, the administrative and economic impact needs to be fully investigated. It would be appropriate to set up a working group representing the departments concerned, the Police Directorate and the organisations in order to prepare a draft authorisation to require police certification in these cases. I found basically to link these brief comments to the proposal, so that the Storting can also get information about how to work on it in a practical way. However, let me say that many of the views expressed by the representative Storberget, I agree with. In general, we have to consider in our society when we believe that it is by law and regulation that we are doing something, or when it is in a more profound existential discussion, which – as far as the representative Thorkildsen was concerned – actually affects relationships that go so close to the blade as what we bring up here. In general, I believe that legal rules are important for setting standards. But if the norm debate fails in all other ways, and the possibility of acting otherwise is gone, then the norms through rules become only a mere formality, and at worst bureaucracy. But I perceive the purpose of this matter, as it has been promoted by the committee, as something else, and as something more. That's why I think the invitations given here through previous posts should be arrested. We should examine how to do that. It may well be possible for representatives with creativity to promote interpellations. It's a suitable form in Stortinget to reflect. It has become clear that proposals are no longer being pressed, so it is actually possible in the form of a debate to reflect on issues that are not easily dealt with, if there is either Document No. 8 proposals or are linked to a budgetary context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e2093	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e2096	I fully agree with all the purposes behind this and all the noble thoughts that have been behind it. But I think it was right to keep an article from volunteering, and not just from justice policy. I don't think there's any danger that there will be fewer volunteers, but I also think it's important to have a discussion about what kind of volunteer you're going to have. The crown example of this has usually been the older gentleman who signed up for volunteer work and was told that there was an old lady who needed help to cut the lawn. And he met up, but was told that he had to sign the taushets statement before he started cutting. It's a red tape of volunteering, but there's also a lack of confidence in volunteering that eventually undermines volunteering, if we don't get it done. Voluntary work is to set up for each other. Being able to stand up for each other is about motivation. And if you're going to be motivated, you can't be distrusted. There's a big ideological distinction between how to recruit employees and how to recruit volunteers. That's why I think you should also think about who is most often working on a voluntary basis with children. 80-90 pst. Of those who work on a voluntary basis with children, children’s parents. It's the mother of Stian and the father of Pål who makes up and does something extra. If we're going to get to grips with the things that we all agree we're going to do, it's primarily by teaching organizations what to look for, what to find, and how to deal with different situations. It's about raising the awareness of those who have trust in organizations. It's about working more in groups and not working individually. It's also about giving children more power in volunteering. To give children the right to vote in their own organisations, to give children the opportunity to vote out the adults who are a little obscene, I think maybe an equally important step is to get this fight speeded up as there can be a police certificate. It's the complex grips that make it possible for us to take this at the root and ensure the legal certainty of the kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e2108	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 645]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e2116	We're going to vote in case no. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e2123	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Eva M. Nielsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, the proposals No. 2-9, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party: ‘The Government asks for proposals to amend the existing private school law which includes: school environment, equivalent provisions contained in the Training Act, rooms adapted to disabled pupils, students’ rights to adapted training, the right to special training for pupils from linguistic minorities, the right of pupils to counselling, the obligation of education to provide child protection and the social action.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a common training law for all pupils, covering both home, primary and secondary education.’ Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case on the organisation and competence of the NOCUT. The size assumes that the tasks of NOKUT shall also include the approval and supervision of all primary and secondary schools.’;» Proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case with measures to ensure better Norwegian knowledge of children from linguistic minorities/children with immigrant background.’ Proposal No. 6, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the transfer of the total financial responsibility for the school shower for primary school students to the municipalities. The majority assumes that the case also clears the financing of skyscrapers for students with disabilities or temporary injury/disease, cf. § 7-3 of the Training Act, even when municipal borders or county boundaries are crossed.» Proposal No. 7, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring forward a law ensuring that independent executives are established at all primary and secondary schools in public ownership and that representatives elected by parents/supervisors constitute a majority of such boards.’ Proposal No. 8, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, says: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals for a new funding system for primary and secondary schools based on the government’s paying school money for the student directly to the school that the student chooses to attend. The size requires such a funding system to include the organisation and financing of school pillows.’» Proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case amending Sections 2-12, 2-13, 14-1 and 14-2 of the Training Act which are adapted to the content of the Law on Freestanding Schools as regards recognition and supervision.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e2204	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2. from the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 1-1, second paragraph, point (f) is replaced by the following:Otherwise, the Training Act § 1-2 shall be based on the necessary adaptation for schools based on a religious/pedagogical alternative.§ 1-2, second sentence, the second paragraph, is replaced by the following:Law also applies to education in the home.§ 2-1 is replaced by: Freestanding schools and home education which meet the requirements of the law, are entitled to approval and public approval. Each school must provide training in Norwegian or Sami. Parents or residents of children of educational age who will either be self-employed or who will be employed for non-school education must report this in writing to the municipality of housing.The right of recognition also applies to Norwegian independent schools abroad and international independent schools in Norway.Assessment and recognition of independent schools under this law and of private schools under this law. [[home education]] § 2-12 of the training law shall be made by NOKUT. Home schooling does not require prior approval, but the municipality is required to supervise the defence of the training.§ 2-2 is deleted.§ 2-3 first and second paragraphs are replaced by the following:The school shall operate according to curricula approved by NOKUT. Freestanding schools shall either follow the curriculum applicable to public schools or curricula which otherwise provide students with at least equal training. However, stand-alone schools created for religious and/or ethical reasons or created as a professional educational option may make exceptions to the public plans where this is justified for the purpose of the school.§ 3-1, fourth paragraph, is replaced by the following:A report on the admission of elephants shall be sent to the home municipality of the elephants in primary schools and to the home state of the elephants in secondary schools.§ 3-3, first paragraph shall read:A student who is admitted to a school under this law shall have the right to complete the education at school as far as the school is recognised. However, when the other students are concerned, a school can, in exceptional cases, complete the training for the student. The municipality of residence or the student's own county council has an obligation to provide training. The third paragraph is deleted.§ 3-3, fourth paragraph is replaced by the third paragraph and the second sentence is replaced by the following:The State takes decisions.§ 3-10, second and third paragraphs are replaced by the following:When a student in secondary school has shown a behaviour that seriously exceeds the order and working order of the school, or when a student seriously neglects his/her duties, the school may decide that the student should be expelled from the rest of the course on which the student is enrolled. In the context of a decision to reject the rest of the length of the course, the county council may also decide that the student should lose the right to further training under the training law § 3-1.Making payment of school money, as well as the counterworking of pedagogy or the religious and/or ethical basis on which the school is based, may also lead to expulsion.§ 5-1 shall read: Each school shall have a board chosen by the owner as determined by the number of members and alternates of the board. With the agreement of the Ministry, two or more schools may have joint boards. Parents/containers shall have at least 2 representatives selected by them; students shall have at least 2 representatives selected by and among them and shall have at least 2 representatives selected by and among them. When dealing with matters in which there is a legal or regulatory obligation, the Governing Board shall ensure that directors under the age limit must leave the meeting.§ 5-4, first paragraph, the first sentence is replaced by the following: At each school, there shall be parental council, where all parents who have children in the school are members. Instead of 85 pst, point (2) 100 pst. Instead of 75 pst, point (3) 100 pst. Instead of 85 pst, point (4) 100 pst. Instead of 85 pst. and point (5) 100 pst. instead of 85 pst.§ 6-2, the second paragraph is replaced by the following:The school which accepts public contributions that do not cover all operating costs may charge school money. School money must not be higher than that required to cover either the operating costs corresponding to the level of expenditure at the corresponding public school with which it is natural to compare or the operating costs inherent in the school’s purpose and/or pedagogy. If the Board of Directors established school money based on an expenditure framework of more than 1/8 in excess of the expenditure level of public schools with which it is natural to compare, approval of the Department is required.§ 7-2 shall be replaced by:NOKUT shall supervise schools approved by this Act and private schools approved by the Training Act § 2-12, and shall have access to schools and documentation in that context. If circumstances are found contrary to these laws or regulations, the Ministry may order the correction of the situation. SOMETHINGS the Department announces that any corrections will be made if the corrections are not followed up or that approval will be withdrawn with the corresponding loss of public approval. The parental board shall have the authority to supervise the school with elected representatives. The report of parental supervision shall be dealt with by the school’s board of directors. The Board of Parents may also send a report from its own oversight to the public oversight body.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e2814	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e2842	Only the Progress Party has announced that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e2875	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e2887	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e2901	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e2921	B, C and D shall be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e2928	In the course of the debate, eleven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1, 2 and 10, by Carsten Dybevig on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, by Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 4-7, by Mr Kijkestad, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals No. 8 and 9, by Mr Noma Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 11, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Center Party Proposals Nos. 1–9 is included in the vote, while proposals Nos 1–9 are included. 10 and 11 are distributed in the hall. Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit an evaluation of the law with any proposals for necessary amendments, after two years’ operation of the law.’ Proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government is asked to prohibit, as soon as possible, wolf hybrids, American Stapfordshire terriers and mixtures in which these breeds are included.’ Proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party, it says: ‘The ruling requires the Government to provide that a derogation from the prohibition on the keeping of specified breeds of dogs is conditional on the sterilisation of the animal and that it has proof of identity linking the dog to a certificate of registration stating the name and address of the owner and showing that the dog has been bred, introduced or kept before the entry into force of the law. If the conditions are violated or the dogs attack people, the dogs shall be killed by decision of the police." These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The President will propose that the vote be taken first on proposal No. 11, from the Central Party, on repatriation to the Government. The proposal reads as follows: «Ot.prp. No 48 sent back to the Government for more detailed examination and re-submission of the Storting.» [[2002-2003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e3072	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «§5 Prohibition of going from tied dogThe dog keeper shall not leave a tied dog) immediately at the entrance to a building open to the public,b) at playgrounds, orc) in another place where the public must naturally pass close by the dog.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e3131	The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they are moving towards the third paragraph of the last sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e3240	The party of progress here has announced that they are against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e3314	There is an aberrant proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 14 shall be replaced by the following:§ 14 On-the-spot procedures against dogs hunting or attacking, etc. The dog keeper shall ensure that the dog is restrained or recalled and do what he can to avert unauthorised danger when a dog hunts or attacks humans or animals.An otherwise unlawful action against a dog is lawful when someone does so in order to prevent the dog from hunting or attacking humans or animals, if the procedure does not go beyond what is necessary to avert injury, and in addition does not go beyond what is clearly justified in view of the danger of the attack and the interest of the affected. As far as the following specific provisions are concerned, they shall apply before the general rule of the second subparagraph:(a) In the event of an ongoing or imminent attack on a person, any person may intervene against the dog which appears necessary to avert injury. This does not exempt the person who has caused an attack in whole or in part, from criminal liability or liability.b) When a dog hunts or attacks domestic animals, or when the dog attacks another dog, the owner, the keeper or the person accompanying the animal may intervene against the dog which appears necessary to prevent injury. However, any other act of unlawful interference against the dog cannot be taken if the exposed animal has unlawfully entered the property which the dog keeper disposes of.c) In the case of banding, any person may kill a dog in the event of a direct attack on deer game, but not a dog in active use as a hunting dog after sick or injured game.d) On site, anyone may kill a dog which has occurred in the immediate context of causing material injury to a person, if the dog still presents a risk which cannot be contained in any other way. The same shall apply if the dog has suffered material damage to domestic animals, domestic animals, dogs or cervids, if the injured animal has not been adversely affected by the property disposed of by the dog keeper. The paragraph here does not apply to police dogs that are legally used. Nor does it apply to the paragraph where the emergency and emergency provisions make a dangerous use of the dog legitimate.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e3426	Paragraph 18, second paragraph, contains an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 18 shall be replaced by the following:Where it is considered practicable and reasonable, the police may decide to reposition a dog instead of killing it.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e3481	There are two different proposals, proposal No. 3 by the Labour Party, and proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The President will propose that a vote be taken first on the proposal from the Progress Party, then on the vote, and finally on the proposal from the Labour Party. No objections have been raised, and that is what will be done. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 5 and 6, from the Party of Advancement, to Sections 19 and 20. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘§ 19 is replaced by the following:§ 19 Prohibition of dangerous dogsIt is prohibited to keep, breed or introduce dangerous dogs. The following are considered as dangerous dogs:(a) Dogs that have been illegally trained in, or to attack, or defend themselves or the dog keeper against humans.(b) Dogs that have been trained in, or to attack, other dogs.(c) Single dogs that appear to be particularly aggressive, combative or with other highly unwanted properties or appearances, so that they may be dangerous to humans or animals.If there is doubt about a dog being a dangerous dog, the police may take the dog into custody and require the dog keeper to pay and assist in a skillful examination of the dog's behaviour in order to determine whether the dog is well balanced or has a low threshold for aggression or other dangerous properties, etc. The police determine who is going to investigate the dog. If the dog keeper does not follow up within a reasonable period set by the police, the dog is considered to be a dangerous dog.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: «§ 20 shall be replaced by the following:§ 20 Exemption from the prohibition on dangerous dogsExempted from the rules of Section 19 by the following: (a) Dogs covered by point (a) or (b) of the second paragraph of Section 19 are not considered to be dangerous dogs if they have been trained by the police, in special cases by others authorised by the police or brought into the country under the law of the police, or trained by the dog organisation approved by the Department. (b) Dogs covered by point (a) or (b) of the second paragraph of Section 19 may be retained if the training has previously been legally provided for by a dog club but has been stopped by the entry into force of the Act. These dogs cannot be sold or relocated without police approval. If the conditions are violated or the dog attacks people, it shall be killed by decision of the police, unless emergency or emergency law is properly attacked.c) A dog covered by points (a) and (b) of the second paragraph of Section 19 may be kept or introduced if the police grant a specific authorisation. Authorisation may only be granted in exceptional cases, such as the introduction of a specific specially trained dog for utility purposes, such as a police dog, use in the defence or rescue dog. Entry authorisation may also be granted for a period of up to four weeks if reasonably possible. Police can lay down detailed conditions for the introduction and the team of the dog. If the conditions are imposed, violated, the dog may be killed or imposed by the State by decision of the police.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e3539	It is then voted on the Committee's position on Section 19. Right and Christian People's Party is behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e3553	There is then a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 19 is replaced by the following:§ 19 Dangerous dogsThe King may prescribe a prohibition on keeping, breeding or introducing dangerous dogs, or the introduction of semen or embryos of dangerous dogs. The regulation may lay down requirements for the documentation of the breed or type of dog. Dangerous dogs are dogs or dog types that are particularly aggressive, combative and persistent and because of these characteristics are dangerous to humans and animals. The first subparagraph shall also apply to dog types that can easily be confused with dangerous dogs.It is prohibited to keep or introduce dogs whicha) have been trained in or to attack or defend themselves or the dog holder against humans; b) have been given training in or to attack other dogs; or c) individual dogs which appear to be particularly aggressive, combative or with other highly undesirable properties or appearances, so that they may be dangerous to humans or animals. If there is doubt as to whether a dog enters under point (c) of the third subparagraph, the police may take the dog into custody and require the dog keeper to pay and participate in a skillful examination of the dog’s behaviour to determine whether it is well balanced or has a low threshold for aggression or other dangerous properties, etc. The police determine who is going to investigate the dog. If the dog keeper does not follow up within a reasonable period set by the police, the dog shall be considered to enter under point (c) of the third subparagraph. Dogs who are bred, introduced or kept in breach of the rules contained in or in accordance with this paragraph may be killed or imposed by the State by decision of the police.’;» The President has understood that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Left now support this proposal subsidiaryly, while the Progress Party opposes it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e3726	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 25 shall be replaced by the following:§ 25 Procedure, review and enforcement of decisions under Section 24For the police handling of cases under Section 24 the Administrative Act applies.The decision of the police under Section 24 may be appealed to the Police Directorate or brought before the courts under the rules of the third subparagraph. The decisions of the Police Directorate in appeal proceedings may be brought before the courts in the same manner. Decisions referred to in the second subparagraph may be brought before the Court of First Instance. The rules of the Administrative Act §§ 29-32, the second and fourth paragraphs of 33 and the first paragraph of 34 shall apply mutatis mutandis. The General Court may try all aspects of the case. The first, second and fourth parts of the dispute law shall apply to the proceedings in so far as the rules are applicable. The General Court shall convene an oral procedure only if one of the parties so requests or if the court deems it necessary. The General Court shall order the case to be heard. On application by the prosecution authority, the decision may instead be dealt with in criminal proceedings against the dog keeper concerning substantially the same facts as those to which the decision relates. In any case, rules of civil law shall apply to the assessment of the existence of the conditions for repositioning, sale or killing. If deferred implementation applies to Section 42 of the Administrative Act, also to the District Court. The police may always require the complainant to pay the costs of custody on a continuous and timely basis, cf. Section 26, if implementation is to be effected. If the complainant fails to comply, the decision may be implemented immediately.If a dog is to be killed, the police will ensure that the killing takes place. It shall be carried out in accordance with the rules laid down in the Animal Protection Act.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e3812	The President will vote on proposal No. 7, from the Progress Party, to Section 28a. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§28a shall be replaced by the following:§28a DogfightingWhoever has allowed a dog to participate in a dogfight, organised dogfight, or otherwise involved in dogfights, shall be sentenced to imprisonment for up to three years. A dogfight is considered to be when two or more dogs, or dogs and other animals are brought together for the purpose and purpose of fighting them."
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e3944	For the first subparagraph, an alternative proposal is available, No. 10, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 32 of the Dog Team Act shall be replaced by the following: 48 on the prohibition of the importation, keeping and breeding of dangerous dogs shall apply until they are removed by the King." The Party of Advancement has notified that they are opposed to both the proposal and the suspension. It is therefore first supported by the proposal of the Right and Christian People’s Party. The President has understood that all parties, except the Advance Party, will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e3963	The proposal will then replace the appointment of the Committee to the first paragraph of Section 32. The Committee's attitude to the second paragraph of Section 32 is then contested. The party of progress is against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e3998	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e4008	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e4023	B and C will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e4030	During the debate, Mr Ellingsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the following proposal: «Decision to the Act amending Law No 11 June 1971 52 on criminal recordII Law 11 June 1971 No. 52 on criminal record is amended as follows: Paragraph 10 is replaced by the following:Any person seeking to hold a post, whether paid or unpaid shall present a police record prior to the appointment of the post, if the post involves a significant degree of trust and responsibility towards minors.However, a police record after the first paragraph shall cover only matters relating to sexual offences, violence, and criminal offences related to the handling of children. The restrictions in Section 6 do not apply to police attestations issued under this provision.The King may issue regulations on the implementation of this provision. Including the type of posts to be covered in cases of doubt.Current Section 10 becomes new Section 11 and Section 11 becomes new Section 12.IID This Act enters into force immediately.» First of all, there is a vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27-lower-2.ana.ud2275e4075	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the position of the Committee on II will be to send the Stortinget.
