ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e53	The President will propose the election of three presidents of Odelstingen’s current and next week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e58	I propose Sigvald Uppebøen Hansen, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Grethe Fossli.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e63	Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Grethe Fossli are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Grethe Fossli are considered unanimous elections as chairmen of the current and next week’s meetings in Odelstinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e82	Ot. pp. No 107 for 2002-2003 is a follow-up to the decision of 13 December 2002, where the Stortinget asked the Government to come back with legislative proposals allowing public creditors to accept proposals for voluntary debt regimes. There was a mass accumulation behind this decision, which opens up that debt regimes can become an important tool to clean up debt cases where the public is one of the creditors, a clearing-up that is best for both debtors and creditors. In the bill, the government has followed this up in a good way, and a co-conspirator's committee joins in the amendment of the law on debt that gives the public the right to participate in the voluntary debt arrangement. In the case of the reduction of fines under a voluntary debt regime, the proposition has an own assessment of this issue, an assessment that concludes that Section 4-12, third paragraph, exempts fines — a conclusion to which a co-conspirator's committee also agrees. I therefore find no reason to address this question. In the Government's proposal for a new section 4-12, there is a clarification that a decision on whether to accept proposals for a debt regime should not be taken as a single decision under the administrative law. A minority in the Committee consisting of the Progress Party, the SV and the Coastal Party propose that this should be considered as a single decision under administrative law and that this should be specified in the laws. Representatives of these parties will certainly do well for the proposal themselves, but in the vote the proposal is essentially based on the legal certainty of the private parties if the public creditor denies the voluntary indebtedness regime. When the Labour Party joins the Government's proposal at this point, it is based on the following: First of all, in such cases where the public is a creditor, it becomes a public party equal to other creditors. So the public representative is not primarily acting as an authority but as a creditor. The second is the question of whether such a means of redress by administrative law in practice will improve security. In the Debt Regulations, there is, of course, a compulsory debt regime. In the event of a refusal of voluntary debt regime, a complaint to the right of use may be made by «forcing compulsory debt regime». The Namibian will then have to assess the conditions that are the basis for the refusal. It will then be assessed whether there is a basis for mandatory debt regime. In my view, the legal certainty here would be preserved. In practice, this will probably work better, faster and less resource use than by going through a complaint procedure under administrative law. The proposal for a compulsory debt regime must appear within the period of the debt negotiation, which is three months. Usually, any refusal of voluntary debt regime will come at the end of this three-month period, for it is only when a full overview of the debtor’s debt and the possibility to draw up a proposal for a voluntary debt regime is available. If an administrative complaint was then to be filed, it would usually not be possible to finalise it before the deadline for requesting the compulsory debt regime expires. The debtor must, presumably, nevertheless submit a requirement for a compulsory debt arrangement before it becomes too late. Another non-themed relationship in Ot.prp. No 107, is the question of a minimum rate to live off for the debtor during the period of the arrangement. When there has been a theme in your configuration, this is because the Government has not followed up the comment of the vast majority in the Input. O. No 15 for 2002-2003. Here wrote a plural consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party that ‘no debtor should have less than 85 pst to live on. of the minimum pension. This should be incorporated into future indicative rates by the Ministry’. Instead of following this up, the Ministry of Children and the Family sends out a circular on 30 June with guide rates corresponding to approx. 75 pst. of the minimum pension. In St. prp. No 1 by the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and in an answer to the Committee on Finance, on the basis of a question on this matter, the Ministry argues in order to maintain such a low rate. This is where it's going to be. to say that a sobering standard of living under the debt regime is fundamentally necessary, among other things. in order for the public to accept the scheme. The last thing I agree with, but I'm going to believe that the same generality will also mean that living on 85 pst. of a minimum pension is not an excessive amount of money, but just a nudge. This issue will be addressed in the context of the discussion of the Ministry of Child and Family Affairs’ budget, and I will therefore not spend any more time doing so now. I just want to emphasize that the same large number that was behind the 85 pst rule in Innst. O. No 15 from last year, is committed to this and will follow up that position in the treatment of the Ministry of Child and Family Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e113	The rapporteur has given a good account of the various minorities and the majority of the votes cast. I just want to be allowed to take up the minority proposal of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party. I would like to stress that it is, in fact, for legal certainty that this proposal has been promoted. The minority considers that the Debt Schemes Act should not contain the proposed special provision on exemptions from the administrative provisions, but that, on the contrary, it should be clarified that the decision to accept voluntary schemes should be regarded as an individual decision under the Administrative Act. That is what we believe would provide a significantly greater degree of legal certainty for stakeholders. This is the background for the promotion of the proposal, but I note that there is a minority behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e125	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e128	Since there is unanimity in the Committee on Government's proposal for new rules, which also allows public creditors to accept proposals for a voluntary debt regime, I would just like to make a few comments on two of the other issues concerned. In the case of the indicative rates of indebtedness, its follow-up is within the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs. I just want to stress that maintaining the legitimacy of a debt extinguisher is essential to a sober standard of living, both for the public to accept the scheme and for the loss to be minimised for the borrower. Government parties have also expressed the desire for greater flexibility based on both the debtor’s personal and other local circumstances in measuring the rate of living than a standard rate could provide. The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party propose that a decision by the public to accept or not to accept voluntary indebtedness should be considered as a single decision. The majority agree with the Government that such a decision is not to be regarded as a single decision under the Administrative Act. As the rapporteur has also emphasised, it is because the private party does not have the same need for the legal certainty guarantee of the administrative law in this type of case, as the private party will be interested in the government accepting voluntary debt regime and thus reducing the requirement. And secondly, if there were to be a refusal, the debt settlement process would move towards forced debt regime, where it would be unwise to wait for an administrative appeal. You can lose a lot of time, which can be to the detriment of both the debtor and his/her creditors – the debt is running. And thirdly, as the rapporteur went on to say, it is public in this context to regard it as a party itself. Thus, in the majority’s view, there are no good reasons why the administrative law’s rules of procedure on individual decisions should apply to voluntary debt regimes. So we don't want them to do that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e141	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 30 of this Official Journal]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e157	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 31 of this Official Journal]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e173	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e180	An overall social committee has agreed that control of pregnancy in midwives in private practice should be free of charge. Introducing the reimbursement of pregnancy control carried out by midwife in private practice ensures the freedom of pregnant women to choose for themselves whether to follow up the pregnancy of a doctor or a midwife. Even though an overall committee is in favour of reimbursement from popular security, the comments show that the different arguments for making this amendment are somewhat different from those of the various parties. In addition, the Progress Party does not wish to require an operating agreement with the municipality to trigger reimbursement. I assume that the other parties justify their views, so I want to focus on the reasons of the government parties and the Right in particular. The main reason for introducing a refund for privately-practiced midwives is to ensure a real freedom for the pregnant woman in relation to who should be the primary responsibility for the follow-up during pregnancy. The right to free maternity care must apply to either the woman wants to go to a doctor or to a midwife, and must be independent of whether it is a private or a public establishment. Today, this right applies in the case of follow-up of midwife only if midwife is publicly employed or employed by a private doctor. It is unacceptable that the pregnant woman herself should pay if she chooses to go to a privately practised midwife, perhaps because of a lack of a public offer. At the same time, this is an important recognition of the surrogate role of midwife in maternity care. The role of midwives in the follow-up of pregnant women may be central, and this should be reflected in the organisation of this offer. The new provision facilitates equality between midwives employed at a health centre or by a doctor and the midwives engaged in their own activities. The right to reimbursement from popular security shall be subject to an operating agreement with the municipality. The requirement for a municipal operating agreement as a condition for reimbursement is related to the responsibility of the municipality to provide healthcare as part of maternity care. This responsibility must be followed up by municipal freedom to organise the offer. However, the Social Committee has stressed that those operating on a certain scale should be offered such agreements. Recognising the independent role of the midwife in maternity care, as this law will contribute to, could also lead to a greater demand for midwife, which in turn will lead to pressure on the municipal authorities to improve soil-killing. A unanimous committee has pointed out that midwives associated with health centres and private practitioners have the possibility within the current legislation to trigger reimbursement for more than the actual control of pregnancy. The Committee has therefore stressed that the rules must be designed in such a way as to ensure that the freedom of choice of the woman with regard to the main responsibility for maternity care becomes effective and to avoid unnecessary social security suspensions by requiring the pregnant woman to carry out additional consultations with other health professionals. It is not the task of the Social Committee or the Stortingen to draw up regulations, but a majority of the Committee has provided that reimbursement for pregnancy control also includes so-called post-control. Furthermore, a unanimous committee assumes that the midwife will continue, through a new section 5-12, to receive reimbursement for family planning as part of maternity care, as is currently permitted by § 5-11, which is proposed. In this context, the Committee also asks the Government to set a fee-rate for individual prevention guidance for midwives. However, when a unanimous committee assumes that family planning will continue as today, I must stress that the government has not proposed any tightening of the current system, which involves reimbursement for family planning as part of maternity care. The proposal also mentions the level of the home birth rate where a midwife does not have an operating contract or a municipal position. A majority of the Committee supports the Government’s assessment of increasing this rate so that the midwife responsible for home birth can also carry out the pregnancy checks. It was just to be lacking if pregnant people who want to give birth at home were not to have the security it is that the same midwife who is responsible for the birth is also responsible for the pregnancy control, even if the midwife does not have an agreement with the municipality. The right is very satisfied that this law is in place. This has been a process that began with the treatment of the so-called emergency message, where the Workers' Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party were behind a proposal in which a request was made by the Government to propose the legalisation of the social security suspension that we are dealing with today. This odelstingsproposition invites Stortinget to adopt a law that facilitates greater freedom of choice and diversity in maternity care. A woman shall be entitled to free maternity care regardless of whether she is going to a doctor or a midwife and regardless of whether it is a public or private activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e210	When Odelstinget today treats Ot.prp. No 89 for 2002-2003, which deals with reimbursement of maternity control by midwives in private practice, it will mean a major legislative change for pregnant women. We are also aware that the midwives have been very concerned about the possibility of reimbursement. When the focus on reimbursement has been so central in this matter, it is important for the Workers' Party to state that we have not in any way wanted the midwife's central role in the municipal pregnancy control to come into the background. Nor do we believe that this has never been the opinion of either the midwife organizations or the Storting. In the suspension of the emergency notice, the majority, of whom the Workers' Party was part, supported proposals on the social security suspension for the control of pregnancy by midwives in private and public activities. That is what we are now getting, depending on whether there are shades in the Committee's view, as the rapporteur said, and as the Committee's comments show. But it will help secure the place of midwives in the primary health service, and that is what is most important to us. In the election campaign we received an enquiry from a pregnant woman at Rena. There was no midwife there, because of illness, and the municipality was unable to get temporary workers. The emerging mother, who wanted to continue her pregnancy follow-up with the midwife, contacted the municipal health services in the neighbouring municipality, which was Elverum. It was full, too. But a privately practicing midwife had the opportunity to follow-up throughout her pregnancy. It cost $6,000. This is an example, but unfortunately it is not unique. For most people, there's a lot of money, and that's not how it can continue to be. It is unreasonable that those who opt for a private solution, often in the absence of a public offer, have to pay for this. That is why it is so important that we now get these reimbursement rules that ensure that all pregnant women have a similar offer. It is reassuring that the private midwives must have an agreement with the municipality, not least in view of the geographical distribution of midwives. We know that small municipalities are vulnerable and can become completely without a midwife for periods of time. The Workers' Party hopes that this reimbursement for midwives with a private operating contract will improve the possibilities for small municipalities to cooperate on both absences and vacations. We want to live towns and cities with many children. Therefore, it is so important that we now ensure free and good follow-up of pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e223	It is essentially a unanimous committee that endorses the proposal itself for the legalisation of social security contributions for the control of pregnancy by midwives in private practice. In this regard, I would just like to support what the rapporteur had to say in her speech, in which she made an excellent presentation of what is really the whole Committee's view. The Progress Party has a divergent view on this matter. It is based on the limitation imposed by a requirement for a midwife to have an agreement on operating grants with the municipality. This is a restriction which, in the opinion of the Progress Party, is so significant that we will vote against this proposal. We believe that it is the competence that the midwife initially holds, which should be decisive for reimbursement, and not whether he has to have an operating agreement with the municipality. Therefore, the Progress Party will vote against Section 5-12, first paragraph, second sentence, which goes on the limitation bit itself, and vote in favour of the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e230	SV is concerned that we should have good maternity care with an equivalent service offer across the country, regardless of where you might live. What will be absolutely central to such an offer is that the midwife plays a key role. We believe that a maternity care based only on contact with a doctor is a lack of maternity care, and that the midwife has so much value to add that active measures are important as part of recruiting midwives to all the municipalities of the country, possibly in cooperation between different municipalities, in order to ensure this. SV has been sceptical about what was raised in the context of the treatment of emergency messages in Stortingen, an approach that should be based on a general right of reimbursement for midwives without being bound up with obligations. The reason why we were skeptical about it was that it could work against its purpose, namely to recruit many midwives when it was granted the right to reimbursement, to those parts of the country that already had the best plot of land, and in that way one could risk that precisely districts like the bad part of recruiting midwives did not get midwives. Therefore, we are pleased with the approach chosen by the Government, because this is linked to a municipal operating grant. This means that in that case the municipality would see itself profited from having an operating grant alternative to a fixed salary agreement and thus make an assessment of what is most appropriate. It also means that the municipality will have the opportunity to provide guidance in relation to the practice of the midwife, including participation in a health centre, where appropriate in cooperation with a health care centre doctor or one of the permanent doctors. In this way you can get an overall maternity care. SV thus has no difficulty in supporting the proposal, as is now available from the Government, because that kind of leadership has been put in place. The Committee will later discuss the law on biotechnology, and I would like to say that securing the place of the midwife, ensuring basic maternity care is also important in that perspective. What you often forget is that it's the closest things to care about, not the very technological everyday life, perhaps in the hands of highly specialised gynecologists, where the basic services are not properly cared for. Therefore, it will be very important for SV to develop these services, so as to recruit as many midwives as possible and ensure that the midwife retains, does not lose, her place in future maternity care. It should not be forgotten that maternity care is primarily about the normal, not about conditions that are abnormal, or that are supposed to give rise to fear, but about completely basic, normal functions that most women experience in a lifetime, which are to be cared for in a safe and basic way. In that perspective, too, we will be concerned with developing services in cooperation, with models of cooperation where both midwife and supervisor are to play a key role, and where the specialised services are to have a place where it is needed, based on studies that document such a need, so as to avoid unnecessary consumption of resources at too high levels, often in conflict with what will be useful for the pregnant woman and her relative.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e243	Few have as exciting a profession as the midwives – as close to life and death. The midwives have always played a central role every time a child comes into the world. Their competence is usually absolutely essential for a happy outcome in the birth process. The efforts of midwives are one of the reasons why we in Norway have such a good birth statistics for live-born children. One important reason for good results is that mothers are followed up with early pregnancy control. The stable and continuous contact with the same midwife and doctor helps to communicate safety to women in vulnerable situations. These controls were previously only applied to health centres, but have also been carried out since 1995 by a midwife who has been assigned to a private practitioner. A few midwives have run maternity care in private practice with full self-payment. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal for changes to the Social Security Act § 5-12, which leads to the opening of the law so that midwives can in private practice require social security for pregnancy control. Until now, women who have used privately practicing midwives have paid for all of this themselves. The proposal ensures the freedom of choice of the woman as all women, regardless of their financial status, may avail themselves of the midwife they wish, provided that the midwife has a municipal operating agreement. If it is professionally sound and it facilitates home birth, the woman shall continue to have this choice. These are the same principles used for social security benefits for private-sector midwives as for example. physiotherapists. The Christian People's Party sees it as a quality assurance for the pregnant women that both of these groups now have an operating agreement. Many physiotherapists run pregnancy courses. Operational agreements ensure that midwives are integrated into the community health service. It should be made clear in the agreement how cooperation with, for example: The medical care and health centre shall be organised in order to enable them to conduct together prevention and preparatory birth training courses. I take it for granted that reimbursement for pregnancy control also includes so-called post-control. The Christian People's Party does not want to go as far as the Advance Party, which wants all midwives to receive social security contributions, even without municipal operating agreements at the bottom. To date, many district councils have struggled with the recruitment of midwives. Experience has shown that omitting the requirement for municipal operating grants can lead to over-establishment in central districts, thus weakening recruitment in districts. The Christian People's Party supports the majority and is pleased with the possibility of social security disbursement which is now to be given to private-practicing midwives. However, the most important consideration is for mother and child, who are still at the root of all maternity and maternity care.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e262	There is a great deal of consensus on the legalisation of social security for midwives in private practice. The centre party wants good pregnancy control with an equivalent offer across the country, and a better coverage than what we have today. It turns out that approx. 13 pst. of the midwife's positions today are not occupied in the municipalities, that more than 60 municipalities do not have their own offer, and that 20 municipalities do not have any offer at all. The municipalities that do not have their own offer will solve this in cooperation with the midwife service either in the neighbouring municipality or even in some cases in the neighbouring country, as I know. When Stortinget treated St.meld. No 43 for 1999-2000, the so-called emergency message, the Centre Party reserved itself to introduce, together with the SV, a general reimbursement scheme for privately operating midwives. It was justified that it could help to make it even more difficult for municipalities with recruitment difficulties to obtain midwives, because a general reimbursement scheme would make it particularly profitable to establish itself in the populous areas, where one initially does not have special recruitment difficulties. So in our view, a general system of reimbursement, as the Progress Party wants, will not serve the purpose of a better geographical distribution of midwives, but will, in the worst case, help to strengthen the geographical bias that we already have today. However, we are very pleased that the department links the reimbursement scheme to the municipal operating agreement. Thus, the best way to organise the service will be assessed by each municipality. These members believe that the best way to ensure this recruitment of midwives is to introduce a reimbursement scheme linked to an overall municipal offer. We therefore support the legislative proposal. It must be such that the needs of the municipality are crucial, and not to the same extent, the amount of private activity that has been in the municipality in advance. We have noticed that the matter presented by the Government today does not include the right to reimbursement for family planning guidance, and we would like to point out that many health centres are currently working on family planning in the health centre, in many cases targeting the youth. We believe that such an offer is important and correct, and that this work, related to the work of a midwife in the municipality, should also be refundable when an offer is made under the direction of the health centre. Furthermore, we believe that there has to be close cooperation between the municipality's doctors, whether they are a permanent or a municipal doctor, and these private-practicing midwives, so that you get an overall offer that goes on pregnancy control and the things that are inside, plus this with family planning and follow-up after birth.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e273	Today’s Odelstinget bill deals with a follow-up to Stortinget’s treatment of St.meld. No 43 for 1999-2000, the so-called emergency message. The government then asked for proposals for the legalisation of social security contributions for the control of pregnancy by midwives in private as well as in public enterprises. In private practice, pregnancy checks have long been covered by popular suspicion. In order to stimulate municipalities to organise maternity care in a health centre, a separate reimbursement scheme for maternity care in a health centre was introduced from 1 January 1991. One prerequisite for reimbursement was inter alia: cooperation between a doctor and a midwife at the health centre. The municipal midwife service was made compulsory on 1 January 1995. In order to provide a basis for midwives to be able to carry out maternity care in cooperation with a private practitioner, a rate of maternity checks by a midwife employed by a doctor was introduced in May 1995 to amend the standard medical tariff. Social security also provides support for midwifery in the case of births outside the institution, follow-up service and reverse/blind alarms for both private and municipal midwifery. It has long been a political objective to strengthen the role of the midwife in the community health service. From a user’s point of view, it is essential to be able to choose the type of pregnancy control or care you want. For example, some people would prefer medical checks, perhaps preferably by a doctor they know well. Several women want foster care with midwives. Others may wish for a more holistic care in a health centre. With the establishment of the new reimbursement scheme, pregnant women will also be able to receive free maternity care from private-practicing midwives. The proposal implies that the midwife service will be equated with the permanent medical and physiotherapy services in terms of organisational model and funding. Municipalities have a statutory responsibility under the Local Health Act to provide adequate services and choose even the most appropriate organisation based on local circumstances. Municipalities may choose between the establishment of permanent posts for the staff or the conclusion of operating agreements with private practitioners. Either the professional has contractual practices or is employed in the municipality, the social security pays reimbursement for the work, in the latter case to the municipality as an employer. The condition of an operating agreement in order to be able to recover reimbursement in private land use practices is important in order to counteract both the recruitment failure of midwife activities in municipalities and the geographical distribution of the offer, which some speakers have been involved in today's debate. Municipalities will also be able to ensure cooperation with medical services through the operational agreement, which is important. With this scheme, the need for the specific reimbursement scheme for maternity care in health centres, which has therefore been proposed, disappears. Municipalities are initially fully responsible for the financing of prevention measures such as school health services and health stations. The partial social security funding of the maternity care services in the health centre has been and will remain a limited derogation from this general rule. Family planning guidance is a natural part of maternity care. The recommended scheme for controls in relation to pregnancy also includes a check a few weeks after birth. In this context, family planning guidance is often provided, and this has been and will continue to be covered by the social security financial responsibility, whether the supervision and guidance are carried out by a doctor, a midwife or a health centre. In this respect, I find it natural, as requested by the majority of the Committee, that the Ministry also provides for a fee for individual prevention guidance in midwives. In addition to serving as a basis for social security settlement in the context of family planning guidance, the tariff will regulate the payment for young people and others who wish to provide for the prevention guidance of midwives regardless of maternity care. This is going to be parallel to that of a doctor. For the sake of order, I would like to make it clear that all offers at municipal health centres are free of charge for users. This also applies to the provision of prevention guidance in a health centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e294	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 31 of this Official Journal]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e310	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other party groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted. The first speaker is Mr Gunnar Ballo, who has the floor on behalf of the rapporteur on the matter, who is a member of the Lamentations Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e321	An overall committee indicates that the proposal proposes to transfer the responsibility for the financing of sick transport, including the costs of residence and the costs of the necessary escorts for patients travelling to the specialist and community health services, from public health to regional health establishments. Furthermore, it is proposed that responsibility for the transport of health professionals be transferred to regional health companies and municipalities, so that regional health businesses are given responsibility for the transport of health professionals in the specialist health service, while municipalities are given responsibility for the transport of health professionals in the municipal health service. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, point out that the Stortinget, when considering the 2003 State budget, adopted the following: ‘The decision asks the Government to prepare the transfer of the funding of sick transport from the Rikstrygdeverket to the regional health companies in the follow-up to the Hagen Committee.’ [[the financing system of the specialist health service]] The majority is satisfied that the Government through the submission of Ot.prp. No 66 for 2002-2003 follow up that decision. The majority are concerned with stimulating treatment near the patient’s place of residence when it is both beneficial for the patient and can represent reduced costs of sick transport. The majority believe that by transferring financial responsibilities to regional health establishments, it will be possible to mitigate this increase in costs. In this context, the majority refer to previously carried out responsibility transfer trials through a pilot project carried out early in the 1990s. In this project, seven counties assumed responsibility for sick transport on a voluntary basis, and the result showed that there was a consistently lower level of expenditure for sick transport in the trial counties than in the rest of the country. The majority also suggests that the majority of the Hagen Committee, which in December 2002 presented its Nou 2003:1 position on the future financing system of the specialist health service, also suggests that responsibility for sick transport be transferred to regional health businesses, while a minority in the Hagen Committee is committed to maintaining public health responsibility for sick transport. The majority indicates that the Department of Proposition assumes that the transfer of responsibility is a prerequisite for the continuation of the current rights to sick transport by incorporating this right into the Patient Rights Act. The majority would strongly emphasise that the proposed transfer of responsibility does not require any impairment of patients’ rights in the case of necessary medical transport and assumes that patients will in the future enjoy as clear rights in the case of sick transport by the Patient Rights Act as they currently enjoy by the Foletrück Act. The majority point out that some municipalities cooperate with other authorities in order to obtain coordinated transport solutions. As an example, the municipality of Flora is mentioned in Sogn and Fjordane, which is carrying out a cooperation project with Health Leader on boat transport, where they include both ambulances, sick transport and the transport of health professionals in the existing boating system in the region. It is also intended to include other transport needs, such as: transport to work and school. The majority will encourage such coordinated solutions where local conditions facilitate it and will stress that the transfer of funding for the transport of health professionals to health enterprises and municipalities should not hinder such cooperation solutions. The majority will stress that regional health enterprises need to cooperate with the municipalities in planning to ensure the need for clouding by community health personnel. The majority assumes that regional health establishments are contracting and are responsible for the financial settlement of boat owners, and in this way a primary responsibility is attached to the establishment and operation of ambulance boats which also carry out other transport services.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e350	This case is two-part. The Ministry has proposed that the responsibility for the financing of sick transport, subsistence expenses and the costs of accompanying patients be transferred from public funds to regional health establishments. The Ministry has also proposed that responsibility for the transport of health professionals be transferred to regional health businesses for, among others. in the case of specialist health services, and the corresponding transfer of responsibility to the municipalities for the transport of health professionals in the municipal health service. The Workers' Party supports the Government's proposals in both areas. The Labour Party has long considered that it would be right for the specialist health service to have both organisational responsibility and financial responsibility for its transport services. The assumption was that the specialist health service is provided with amounts corresponding to the expenses of the public health service. Such schemes may stimulate patients to receive treatment as close as possible to their place of residence when this is professionally sound. In addition, the patient may avoid being sent unnecessarily many times to and from the treatment site as the treatment institution also has to bear the transport costs. It is also an important point to limit costs, as evidenced by the results of the pilot cell states. I refer here to the rapporteur's remarks on this. If health-care providers benefit from and rational transport arrangements, they may also benefit financially from this new scheme. Of course, with regard to the free choice of hospitals by patients, this new scheme should not have any significance. The rights of patients are already statutory and the payment arrangements for such travel are in place. The corresponding scheme is also implemented for the municipalities. Recordings to the Committee and individual representatives have expressed concern that new expenditures are being incurred by municipalities without simultaneously transferring the corresponding funds. Of course it shouldn't be like that. The Workers' Party assumes that municipalities will be paid their costs for the transport of health professionals as before. This must be the responsibility of the departments responsible. It may not be that a new financial instrument should lead to poorer provision of services for the inhabitants or to increased costs for municipalities. A letter to the Stortinget from six municipalities in More and Romesdal, which have an ambulance and a medical boat service, just points out the need for full funding of these services. I'm assuming this. I also agree with the rapporteur's view in this area. Both I and other representatives have received such concerns from other parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e367	Ot. pp. No 66 for 2002-2003 follow up the decision of the Stortinget to transfer the financing of sick transport from the Rikstrygdeverket to the regional health establishments. The transfer of responsibility is not primarily to save society for expenditure, but to release some of the funds currently being used for sick transport for increased efforts to treat patients more closely where the patient lives. Expenditure on sick transport, which is currently covered by the Rikstrygdeverket, has grown significantly in recent years. In 2002, expenditure amounted to over SEK 1.5 billion, which is growth of 13 p.m. from the previous year. We increasingly experience that the media focus on some health businesses preventing cost-effective and rational treatment solutions by sending patients around the country and beach to perform relatively simple interventions, where transport costs often exceed the cost of the intervention itself. We also experience that chronically ill people have to make frequent, long and tiring trips with overnight stays in order to receive the necessary treatment. The funding model for sick transport is currently functioning in such a way that the body that triggers the transport costs – in this case the specialist health service – does not have the financial responsibility. The right and the government consider it important to stimulate a decentralised treatment provision for patients in the specialist healthcare system. A system in which healthcare undertakings are given the financial responsibility for sick transport facilitates the need for healthcare undertakings to take into account the total costs of patient treatment, including the costs related to transport. I believe that the conversion will help to collect the future benefit not only for some patient groups that get treatment closer to home. The transfer of responsibility could lead to a greater incentive for regional health firms to establish treatment provision closer to the patient’s home, for example: for dialysis and cell toxicity treatment. It could also bring benefits to health businesses, while avoiding long trips to hospitals, accommodation and the resulting disadvantages. It is established in the proposal that the proposed transfer of responsibility will not undermine patients’ rights in relation to the necessary medical transport. It is also stated that in the future patients will have as clear rights in the field of sick transport by means of the Patient Rights Act as they currently enjoy by virtue of the People's Rights Act. The right and the government are aware that in several counties and regions a lot of good work has been done in order to coordinate the different needs of transport and cloud transport, and are in favour of ensuring the competence of drivers’ offices and transport consultants. Let it be clear that the right to free hospital choice should not be restricted for economic reasons in relation to sick transport. The majority of the Committee assumes that regional health establishments are loyal to it, while at the same time committing themselves to providing patients with guidance on their rights. Reference to the Government of Ot.prp. No 63 for 2002-2003 proposed to extend patients’ right to choose hospitals to private hospitals with which regional health establishments have agreements. Furthermore, freedom of choice has been proposed to extend to children’s and young people’s psychiatry. As I have been in the past, it is also clear from the Government's proposal that patients' rights in relation to the coverage of transport costs are continued unchanged. Some of the hearing bodies are concerned that through the scheme, local authorities will be charged costs that they have not previously incurred, without providing the necessary funds to pay these costs. In the wording of the proposal, the majority of the Committee strongly emphasises that the funds used for the transport of health professionals in the municipalities through the social security system are to be transferred from the social security system to the municipalities in order to ensure that the municipalities have the financial basis necessary to undertake the task. It is established that regional health establishments are responsible for contracting and are responsible for the financial settlement with boat owners of the establishment and operation of ambulance boats which also carry out other transport services. At the same time, in the same way as today, municipalities are to be granted the right to use the boats for the purpose of being shot by their health professionals, in return for paying health businesses for their use of the boats. The new proposal brings together financial and expenditure responsibilities in one place. It will contribute to more rational solutions and more cost-effective transport services. The legislative proposal lays down framework conditions for regional health enterprises that can contribute to decentralised health services, hopefully with a ‘win-win’ situation for all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e399	The government's proposal in this case to transfer the financial responsibility for health transport and travel expenses for health professionals from public health to regional health companies, with the exception of the part to be transferred to the municipalities, is well with respect to notifying the outcome of an agreement with the Socialist Left Party, and is hardly a proposal based on the free choice of hospitals. In any case, it is not a satisfactory way for us to allow further use of private healthcare providers, who should be able to compete for patients, where they are actually competitive. By adopting the changes now proposed by the Government, a hidden restriction of the free hospital choice in Norway is clearly introduced. It's interesting to notice that in connection with the Budget indent. S. No 11 for 2002-2003 by the Social Committee, only the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre addressed the proposals for amendments currently under consideration. It was claimed by the government parties that the rights of patients to free hospital choice under the Patient Rights Act are sufficient to ensure the free choice of patients. This is a statement that only time will show if it's correct. But I would nevertheless argue that with the economic situation we are now looking at the different regional health care companies, and the fact that not everyone is equally happy with the free hospital choice, and preferably against the private actors, there is reason to fear that the free hospital choice scheme will not work optimally after this change. There is no reason to hide the fact that today there is considerable uncertainty about the functioning of the hospital choice scheme itself. In addition, when one can note that the Government envisages a saving both in terms of the country's share of the expenditure and also in terms of the enterprise's share of the proposed conversion, there is reason to wonder what is really behind the proposal for changes. One can read that it is expected that regional health enterprises will purchase this service from the social security system, as the competence will remain here and the position of employees remains unchanged. There is every reason to fear that the LHL, the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease, will be entitled in its considerations and fears that a transfer of the financial responsibility for sick transport to the regional health establishments could result in a system where minimum standards are being maintained. The Progress Party will vote against the proposals for changes in the funding of sick transport and travel expenses for health professionals made in the Proposition, as we fear that this will in the long run be aimed at reducing free hospital choice and could also lead to a lower supply for patients due to economic saving measures. The representative Røbeck Nørve said in his post that it was not primarily to save money that this was introduced. Then it's actually interesting to read in the proposition what it says about who's going to do the service itself -- I guess there won't be any manna coming from heaven or any other thing that makes you suddenly do these things cheaper than the social security system has been able to do to date. It will be with respect to report that it is insinuating that the social security bill has not done a good enough job. It's actually in the proposition: ‘The insurance sector has competence in the field of health transport. The Ministry considers that it would be appropriate to make use of these competences so that the social security system continues to provide these services in 2004. It is therefore envisaged that regional health enterprises can purchase treatment and payment services from the social security system. It will also be an advantage for patients who will still be able to submit the bills to their local social security office.’ With respect to reporting, this is a matter which has been raised by agreement with the Socialist Left Party, for the Right has always been against transferring the financial responsibility for the sick transport to the enterprises. It is interesting to see that this agreement also brings about changes to the Right Party, which is not very surprising.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e421	In Ot.prp. No 66 for 2003-2003 The Government proposes that regional health care providers be given responsibility for the transport of sick persons and for the financing of the transport of health professionals to the specialist services, while the municipalities are given responsibility for the transport of health professionals to the municipal health service. Patients' right to cover sick transport costs remains unchanged. The Christian People's Party is pleased that such a conversion primarily stimulates the patient to be treated as close to his own housing as possible when this benefits the patient himself, while the conversion will lead to a more cost-effective transport offer. It is also important for one in this context to stress the principle that the person who triggers a cost should also remain in charge of financial responsibility. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the patient be preserved by avoiding long journeys in order to receive the necessary treatment. This is very important for chronically ill people who need frequent treatment. The patient is spared the burden of long and frequent travels, while health care professionals can release funds for direct patient treatment over time. For the Christian People's Party, decentralised health services are particularly important. The new funding responsibility for sick transport is an incentive for decentralised health services, as the total costs of patient treatment are now considered in the context. The change that we are debating today will therefore help to ensure the decentralised treatment provision that we have today, and that the Christian People's Party is busy preserving, while stimulating the creation of more decentralised health services. There is a great difference between geography, distance, communication and construction patterns between municipalities in this long-range country. This results in large differences in the costs of transporting health professionals between municipalities, although the population is essentially similar. For the Christian People's Party, it is decisive that the district councils are taken into account, and that the difference in the communication structure is taken into account when making the transfers to the municipalities. It is therefore important that the economic basis is ensured by the transfer of the expenditure currently spent on transport from the population to the municipalities. Some coastal municipalities have some places boating kisses as the only means of transporting health professionals. The majority of the Committee is in favour of contracting regional health professionals who are responsible for the economic performance of boat owners and thus assume the primary responsibility for the creation and operation of ambulance boats which also carry out other transport services. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the municipalities, in the same way as today, are given the right to use these boats for skiing by their health professionals, and that the individual municipality pays the health agency for the use of the boats. As a result, the entrepreneurs are given responsibility for the creation and operation of such boats and their local authorities' right to use them. Thus, patients will not suffer harm even if they stay on edge strokes. On the contrary, the Christian People’s Party believes that the provision in the districts will be strengthened by this conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e440	There is first reason to recall, in relation to the intervention by the representative Nesvik, that it was a majority decision last year that asked the Government, in the context of the follow-up to the Hagen Committee, to investigate the transfer of the funding of the sick transport from the National Agency to the regional health companies. We are concerned that there should be an equivalent and equal offer in terms of a case as serious as the transport of sick people around the country. But at the same time, we clearly see that it's important from an overall perspective to get to the best total solutions. We have discussed several times in this room, among others. school closures, and that in relation to who is responsible for the operation of the school and who is responsible for the transport of school children. In the health sector too, there have been different sources of funding and different responsibilities for hospital operations and health transport. Now, a majority here on Stortinget wanted to see this in context in order to find good solutions. And there is reason to remember that we have had experimental arrangements in seven county municipalities, where it turned out that county municipalities that took over this sick transport on a voluntary basis had a good result in terms of lower expenditure growth and good experience with such a scheme. The Hagen Committee, which presented a public inquiry last December, also concluded — at least by a majority there — that the transport of sick people should be transferred to regional health businesses. In the consultation round in the context of this investigation, a majority also wanted to transfer the financial responsibility to regional health establishments. These are signals to which we should be adjusted. One should stimulate and facilitate a decentralised treatment provision in specialist health services. A system in which healthcare undertakings are given the financial responsibility for the transport of sick persons facilitates the need for healthcare undertakings to take into account the total costs of patient treatment, including the costs related to transport. In many cases, it may be economically beneficial to maintain existing decentralised treatment services. Such a system is today, some patients, especially chronically ill, have to make frequent and long trips, tiring trips, in order to receive the necessary treatment. If you can decentralize the provision of this group of patients, it will be positive for these. In general, it must also be emphasised that a close hospital offer, i.e. a decentralised hospital offer, is important in relation to the acute situations and needs. The majority do not justify its proposal that this transfer of financial responsibility should save society money, but that it should perhaps free some of the transport costs in such a way that they can be used for increased patient care efforts. In addition, this has the advantage that the patient should not be transported over long distances if it is appropriate to do the opposite. We've summed up a few premises for this amendment to happen. Medical transport must be a similar offer throughout the country. The patient must be offered the best treatment and travel options, regardless of cost. The health and needs of the patient shall be essential for the means of transport and the accompanying service to be provided. Health enterprises and municipalities need to be fed to the economy so that transport provision can be maintained and developed, not least qualitatively, in all parts of the country. Differences in geography and residence shall not affect the patient and his/her dependants. Therefore, the country’s grant schemes must be clearly compensated for different distance and residence conditions. We would also stress that established mechanisms that are flexible and that work well locally – cooperation solutions locally between different actors and levels of government – should be maintained and further developed. This could be done, for example, by: concerns cooperation with boat companies and taxi operators, the ability of a person to make them function further and to develop. We also state that all transport related to specialist health services is financed by health businesses. There has been some uncertainty about this, both in relation to ambulance services and in relation to the establishment of district medical centres. It must be a clear premise that the specialist health service is to finance this transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e468	The Odelstinget's current proposal suggests that regional health businesses assume the responsibility of the social security fund for the coverage of travel expenses, including subsistence expenses and expenses for the necessary accompanying staff, for patients who go to specialist health care and community health services. It is also proposed that responsibility for the transport of health professionals be transferred from the social security system to the regional health establishments and municipalities. Regional health undertakings are responsible for the transport of specialist health personnel, while municipalities are responsible for the transport of municipal health personnel. The rights of patients as well as health professionals are to continue as they do today. In 2002, health transport expenditure amounted to DKK 1,543 billion, while housing expenditure amounted to SEK 47.7 million. kr. Expenditure growth in the social welfare sector has been significant in recent years. The cost of transporting health professionals was nearly 330 million. in 2002. These costs have shown only moderate growth. An important economic principle is that the cost liability of a service should lie with the one that triggers the cost. In cases where there is a high distance between the trigger of a cost and the payer of the cost, there is a risk of undesirable effects. And there is a risk that the decisions that are taken are not the most rational for social reasons. Regional health establishments are currently responsible for providing specialist health services in their region, but they are not responsible for the costs of transporting patients or health professionals. Similarly, municipalities do not have any cost liability for the transport of patients or personnel for which they are taking the initiative. The objectives of the proposed reform can be summarised in two main areas. The most important thing is to help patients receive treatment almost at home. Today, there are two main trends in medical development. One requires increasing specialisation — and therefore centralisation of some services — in order to maintain quality. The second trend in medicine makes it possible to make different types of treatment increasingly lower in the medical treatment chain, in other words, more decentralised. There are enough forces in health care and in the systems that are moving towards centralisation. The cancers of medicine that act as a decentralizing agent encounter some resistance in the systems. Part of that resistance is linked to the sick transport system. For this reason, this is an important reform to ensure that treatment services such as medical and organisational facilities make sense to specify where people live, such as: dialysis and cell toxicity treatment — in fact, it also makes economic sense to focus on where people live. Therefore, the Government has in connection with St.meld. No 5 for 2003-2004, the Specialised Health Service Income System, and the 2004 State Budget proposed that hospital funding be mobilised in decentralised services for the two diagnostics I mentioned, as part of the overall policy to make it easier to provide services that are otherwise reasonable to provide near where people live. In addition, the health transport sector has for several years had a large expenditure growth and an increase beyond growth elsewhere in the specialist health service. In my view, a transfer of responsibility to regional health businesses can in the long run lead to a reduction in demand for sick transport services because it is better organised. Also, a transfer of responsibility for the transport of health professionals to those who trigger the expenditure, which is therefore the closest to influencing them, is assumed to be more rational than continued funding through popular protection. Finally, let me make it clear that this transfer of responsibility is based on the clear assumption that patients' rights continue as they are today. Of course, this also applies to the right to free hospital choice. This is ensured, inter alia, by: by proposing provisions of the Patient Rights Act that give patients and accompany them with the right to cover the necessary expenses, as described in the People’s Rights Act today. At the same time, the Regional Health Undertakings are required by the Special Health Service Act to provide for the transport of patients and to cover the costs involved. The rights of health professionals will also be maintained as today. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee subscribes to the proposal. There have been many discussions about this in this room that have not resulted in anything. Finally, it becomes a change, and I am convinced that it will be a change for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e498	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e502	There have been many debates in this Chamber on the proposed change. One of the reasons why it has not been implemented is that, among other things: The party of progress, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have opposed this arrangement. That's why it hasn't been implemented before. My question to the Minister of Health is on the social security system and the 200 annual works per year. today is the link up to the scheme itself. Now the Minister of Health – and the Government says in the bill – says that it is necessary to purchase these services in 2004. Then you've put into the budget a saving of 50 million. SEK – 25 million. kr for the country’s share and 25 million. kr for the undertakings. We also see what the economy of businesses looks like in these days. My question to the Minister of Health is: How many of these 200 employees, as it says here, will the Minister of Health have to be cancelled if the health companies are now starting to stand for – I kept saying – their own services and not buying them from the social security fund, or are they going to be forced to buy them from the social security fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e511	When, in fact, one of the reasons for this proposal is that there is a desire to improve the efficiency of resource use, it would be strange if the government did not take the consequences of it in the draft budget and actually showed that it is serious. With regard to the exercise of these services which are intended to expedite recipients or patients in relation to a free card, etc., there are services already provided by the social security system on different types of self-employed persons than those on travel. It would be totally unreal if we were to build a whole new apparatus across the country because we transferred responsibility for the budget and money flows to the regional health companies, when we already have an appliance that works. It wouldn't be user-friendly. That is why we have chosen to continue this as a responsibility for health businesses, but so that it is practically carried out by the social security system. And that's what we're going to use ownership to ensure in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e518	For SV, it has been important for many years to argue for a change, such as the one that is now taking place, because we believe that resources could be used much more focused on treatment than on travel when health businesses have that right of access under the Health Business Act. But I still have a question for the Minister of Health. It is a matter of accounting for years and assuming significant savings that are not released for treatment, but that go on direct savings of State additional expenditure, much of the inspiration will go away, because for each krone you save, maybe a penny disappears. For SV, it will be important to be ready and maintain that the funds released as part of saving travel costs provide health care companies with increased opportunities to treat more patients and that it is not considered to be purely savings.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e525	I agree with the representative, Mr Ballo, in the sense that those responsible for providing health services to the population can actually now also face a real problem when assessing where the service is to be provided. And if they choose to place services decentralised, travel expenses are actually saved, and then patients are also saved for unnecessary travel – when they get a decentralised offer. As far as the representative Ballo's questions about future efficiency requirements are concerned, it is clear that neither he nor I can stand here to advance future budgets. However, one of the intentions of the proposal is that those responsible for localisation decisions, etc., should actually face a gain by rationally and efficiently setting up the transport system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e532	I am also concerned that there is a sufficient economy in this, so that both healthcare companies and municipalities have the resources to provide the best possible transport for the sick. I would like to ask the Minister of Health if he can guarantee that the economy, this first year in particular, when there are transitional arrangements and some uncertainty in the system, is ensured, for example, by ensuring that. may submit some form of estimated funding, in such a way that health-care establishments are not deprived of money for this sick transport. And this also applies to clarification of the responsibility of health companies for all transport where specialist health services are involved. There has been uncertainty about this. I have previously raised the question with the Minister of Health regarding e.g.: the ambulance service in the municipality of Lebesby. There's discussion in Uppland County, I know, about forms of cooperation and sharing of expenditure in the establishment of district medical centers. Is it the case that the specialist health service of health care establishments has all transport costs in relation to the provision of specialist health services?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e541	To the last question, the answer is yes. The proposal is based on the fact that those responsible for specialist health care are also responsible for transport related to the specialist health service. Then, in a letter in response to questions from the rapporteur, I have explained how I think cooperation solutions should be found for community boats, etc., where means of transport are used for both health care and other social purposes. I believe that I have described this in a clear way in a letter of 31 October 2003 to the rapporteur-in-chief. With regard to the issue of risk of cost development, etc., I refer to the scheme described in the proposal and followed up in the 2004 draft government budget, which provides for a fifty-fifty risk sharing between the country and the enterprises in the case of any budgetary excesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e550	The cord shift is therefore over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e555	When I asked for the floor, it was based on the post of the representative Harald Tom Nesvik. It is true that SV has argued for many years for a change in the travel expenses scheme in line with what the majority now supports. We are, of course, pleased that it will be a majority. We have also called for a reduction in the input-based proportion of hospitals, because we believe that there are distortive effects here, which are cost-effective and not targeted at patient treatment. The fact that, in the case of specialist health services, it is possible to assess the outcome of the scheme and see whether it makes sense to change them must be good. One of the things that surprises me most about the Advancement Party is that you seem to hold on to models that you have an ideological relationship to, even when it turns out clearly that the models are unreasonable. What you can achieve with this is what the Progress Party says in many ways, that they're burning for, that every patient can get a better offer. And it's clear that in our long-term country, it's often sensible to stimulate a treatment closer to where the patient lives. In the past, we have been involved in treatment services such as dialysis. Only over three months for individual patients who have to travel a long time to receive such treatment may be in the same range as a dialysis device costs. So it's perfectly obvious that it makes sense to stimulate greater proximity to such treatment as well. We've seen how cell-to-cell therapy, based on the fact that the hospitals decide the premises for it, can take place at the home, so that patients who get sick of that treatment could be there until the nausea has passed and then go home to the family, instead of perhaps having a journey that is of an hour's duration, and who might be an argument for some to end a treatment that could be life-saving at best. We see how the telematics service has been able to create closeness, but there is often a need to get the specialists to the municipalities to further develop the service and to provide guidance for health professionals. We also see how local hospitals are now struggling with poor finances. Nevertheless, they may be able to benefit from this type of proposal. Instead of the fact that the Progress Party is almost frenetically occupied by the snow that fell last year, they should have looked to the future and asked themselves: How can we create better services for the population in a way that takes care of their tarts and further develops the health service provision on the basis of equivalence? It must also be advisable to ask the Advance Party to do the financing of the specialist health service, because what we now see of impacts around the various health establishments gives cause for concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e570	That Olav Gunnar Ballo and I disagree both on this matter and not least on effort-driven financing, I don't think anyone is surprised. After all, the Left Party has been opposed to effort-driven funding all along. The Socialist Left Party is today getting a hit for one of the things they believe in, for which they have worked. I respect that. But the line of reasoning of the representative Ballo actually supports what I was in my post, that in order to get to these savings, you actually have to reduce the patient's free choice to choose hospitals other than what is in the nearby region. The representative, Mr Ballo, highlighted, inter alia: in the case of decentralised services, that a dialysis device could be saved in three months, but it will actually be possible to do so already within the current system by making reasonable use of the resources. I just refer to the remark that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party stood alone in the suspension of the 2003 state budget, which was about to make the change in sick transport that we now have to deal with. The very note that builds up around all of this was not actually the government parties, but they later signed an agreement with the Socialist Left Party. It also bears the hallmark of the fact that here one is trying to find a line of reasoning for the conclusion of an agreement with the Socialist Left Party. I have full respect for that. Today we can read on text-tv, in the media, that a health company has to apply to raise loans to pay wages: 50 million. kr. to pay the salary. In that kind of situation, I ask myself, what should the company then choose, when they do not have the money to pay today? Should they then try to reduce the free choice of hospitals in order to save money? What kind of law are they going to break? In fact, there is a reason to ask about this in this case. I think this will go beyond the free hospital choice. I really hope I'm wrong, for Norwegian patients, but unfortunately I think I'm right. And as I said in my post, it'll just show the future. In conclusion, the representative, Mr Ballo, asked the Minister for Health if any savings would go to increased patient treatment. As far as I understood the Minister for Health's answer, he confirmed it. That's weird, because that's not the right thing to do. As a result of this saving, health businesses will be saving 25 million from next year. kr. I think the Minister of Health should confirm that this is the case, because from that point on, what was said to the representative, Ballo, has already been broken.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e585	I think the Party's representative, in a familiar style, now strikes in several directions, and actually it becomes a little inconsistent and paradoxical, what he mentions. In the setting, the Progress Party has a comment called: ‘These members are aware that it is argued that it is important to stimulate treatment near the patient’s place of residence when this is both for the benefit of the patient and public expenditure on sick transport can be reduced. This is a goal that no one disagrees with.’ Then comes this as the Progress Party takes up, that there is a danger that you can't travel anywhere, and that the free choice of hospitals can be restricted. That is to the extent that the Party of Presidents must be allowed to take a stand. We believe that it is important to interact here, between health companies and transport, so that we get a close hospital offer for everyone, both in relation to the chroniclers and in relation to the acute situations. We also believe that this must be possible with free hospital choice and long journeys, and the Minister of Health has confirmed this to some extent. It is said that with the poor economy that health businesses have, there is a danger that there will be nothing for the long journeys and the free choice of hospitals. Then I have to remind the Progress Party that if someone is responsible for today's hospital economy, it is the Progress Party. The Progress Party has concluded agreements with the government parties for two consecutive years and budgetary settlements where the economy is nailed also to health companies, specialist health services and our hospitals. So it's not possible to jump in all directions and argue like that, and so when it suits you. At least you have to take responsibility for what you've been up to, and say something about how to solve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e599	It is obvious that the representative Harald T. Nesvik is surprised that, among other things, The right-hand side has a different position on this matter than what we have had in the past. The background to our previous position was that at the time, hospitals owned their waiting lists in many ways. One treated this almost as an order reserve. That was the starting point for the Right, along with the majority here, to think that it was important that the transport system was anchored in the public interest, so that you could use departments elsewhere. One should get a better patient transfer. Now one is in a situation where both have free hospital choice across the country, one is getting national waiting lists that work, and one has completely different patient rights. Then there must be reason to see what the negative results of our anchoring travel expenses in a completely different funding system are. A good example of this is from Health Nord, where a patient was sent from Tromsø to a smaller hospital and was examined through telemedicine by a specialist who was put in Tromsø. For Health Nord, it was completely uninteresting whether that patient was being examined in Tromsø or at this hospital, because the travel expenses are completely irrelevant to them. So a patient can be sent away from where the specialist sits, be examined through telemedicine and use 24 hours. Now the negative outcomes of this funding mechanism start to weigh more heavily than the things we were concerned about earlier, precisely because we have provided other mechanisms to ensure the free choice of hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e611	Harald T. Nesvik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e614	Only a quick comment first to the representative of Luttvold: the Progress Party has in fact proposed several times to increase hospital appropriations, through several types of propositions, without having had any impact on it in the Storting, at the latest in the revised national budget. That the representative of Luttvold questions this, I think it's all right, because Luttvold has been against the system of input-driven financing all along. So to the representative Bent Höie, who shows, among other things, to the case in Health North. Well, it's with respect to notifying the Health Minister that is actually a business meeting for all businesses. If there's this kind of business going on, we have ways to stop this, through the Minister of Health, who's the corporate meeting of the company. If it is the type of mismanagement suggested by the representative, Höie, he should contact his Minister of Health so that it can be addressed to that undertaking.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e621	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 31]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e637	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replacement of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e648	In connection with the treatment of Rusreform I by Odelstingen, the Government agreed that the parts of the treatment offered to drug users for whom the county is responsible under the Special Health Services Act should be transferred to the State by the regional health establishments. At the same time, the majority also agreed that it would be the State and the municipalities that would be responsible for the offer to this group. It is no longer natural for the county to have this responsibility. This matter that we are dealing with today is about who is responsible for the institutions for which the county is responsible under the Social Services Act. The main objective of the overall drug reform must be to clarify the responsibility for action for this group and to improve and clarify their rights and status. Drug users are a heterogeneous group, often with different and complex needs that vary over time. Experiences with previous organisation and rights include gambling situations between administrative levels, disclaimer, fragmentation and grey areas. Therefore, it is important that this group of users now receive an offer similar to that of the other patients. Although the transition between drug use as a social problem and a health problem is slipping, the consequences of long-term drug abuse will be a disease situation. This group has suffered because of professional disagreement and lack of status in the treatment system. But this does not mean that there are simple medical solutions to their situation. For example, many-year-old drug abuse has led to a lack of youth, education, work experience and education, while at the same time being part of an environment with different rules, standards and requirements of existence. Thus, the transition from drug abuse to community participation becomes not only a struggle for drug freedom but also a long-term development process. In today's situation, a treatment offer will be based on a reference from the municipality's social service, an investigation under the county council's control, a decision on municipal ownership in the municipality and the fact that the county municipality has free capacity on one of the institutions with which they have an agreement. This means that in the absence of a treatment offer, the municipality may be responsible for the fact that the county has too little capacity in its contracts, and the county may be responsible for the municipality not paying its own share. When all this is going to clap, while this patient group must be motivated to accept treatment, everyone understands that there is too much that can and will go wrong early in the process. In addition, there is the process of outsourcing and setting up post-protection measures. It is necessary to see the debate on drug reform in this light — the relationship between medicine and social rehabilitation. One of the key success criteria for reform work will be whether we succeed in creating a coherent offer adapted to the individual. In this light, there are three aspects that are absolutely essential. It's: responsibilities clearance, so that we can get rid of the unworthy establishment of rights to individual levels, so that there is a link in the strengthening of the rights of this patient group to healthcare The government's proposals answered all three of these goals. The proposition stipulated that the municipalities should assume the remaining responsibilities of the county council. It had given the municipalities greater responsibility than today and given them overall responsibility for action under the Social Services Act. This is the main position of the government party, but unfortunately it was not possible to have a majority in the Storting. The main issues of government parties and the Councils involved in this situation were: What alternative model is it possible to obtain a majority, which at the same time takes account of the main objectives of the reform? It is our opinion that a model that brings together the present responsibilities of the county council with the state of regional health enterprises is the best option. Models providing different solutions and different status for users depending on their place of residence would once again have established an untransparent offer that could easily have led to new gaming situations. That is why we could not support a model with the exception of Oslo. A key prerequisite for anchoring these institutions in the Special Health Services Act is to ensure that social services can continue to refer to treatment and rehabilitation. The debilitated drug addicts are a group of patients who have traditionally not dealt with their regularity. Visiting a waiting room at the agreed time, with money to a fair share, is not the easiest thing for someone who has been a drug addict for a long time. This is a group that basically has an established relationship with the social service of the municipality. On the other hand, there is a group of more hidden drug users: the home drug addict or the drug addict who continues to participate more or less in the ordinary social life. They often have a clear relationship with their permanent staff, while visiting social services in the municipality is perceived as a barrier. Through today’s proposal, we provide this patient group with two access doors for treatment. My hope is that this will lead to more people being caught at an earlier point in time. Early intervention should also become a concept vis-à-vis this patient group. Another consequence is that they are covered by the Patient Rights Act and that treatment capacities are easier to use across county and regional borders. The government's proposal for the right to individual level goes through unchanged. We have all received telephones from the desperate relatives who describe a situation where their son or daughter is written out by a treatment institution, and where the municipality of residence offers room for shelter or an apartment, without any other follow-up. They know that it means a short way back to the old life pattern. This user group needs the services to be linked, that psychiatry, activities, housing and treatment are part of a holistic approach. A hand must not let go of the roof until a new one has taken over. When a drug addict has become free of drugs, the tough fight begins: to learn to be part of what we perceive as the ordinary society. The right to individual level shall contribute to active user involvement, greater security and predictability of users, clarification of responsibilities and ensuring coordination and cooperation. In relation to user involvement, this is almost an untapped area within this field. There is therefore a need to continue working on different models in order to ensure effective user involvement in the field of drug protection. So there's a reason to ask, is all the problems solved now? My answer to that is no. In my view, we have established a division of responsibilities, a law and a right that is a prerequisite for improving this part of our welfare society through the proposal that lies here today and together with Rusreform I. But we are still facing major challenges. The institutions currently enshrined in the Social Services Act and now moving to the Special Health Service Act need to strengthen their health professional competence. At the same time, we must ensure that the social part of the treatment does not disappear. In healthcare companies that are now in charge, responsibility in this area will be a challenge. The quality of treatment must also be evaluated. Health care providers need to review critically the institutions with which they now have contracts in place to ensure that the treatment provided also produces results. It will also be a challenge to ensure that municipalities take part in the responsibility under the Social Services Act. Prior to the previous reform in this area, the county had all the responsibility for the institutions, with no municipal ownership. We then experienced that some municipalities operated as travel agencies, where they were sending drug users around the country to institutions for which others paid. This is a development we have to follow closely. Hopefully, you'll find that, among other things. the individual level requirement could counteract such a development. In conclusion, first of all, I would like to thank the People's Party for reaching the end of the government parties with the model we wanted to support subsidiaryly, so that it quickly became a solution. I also want to commend the Minister of Social Affairs for the fact that instead of attaching prestige to her own preferred model, she was most concerned that there was a solution that met the main objective of creating a better and more transparent treatment provision for this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e690	Inpatient care and drug treatment require improvement. Public aid for people with drug problems must be based on the needs of individuals, which means too many treatment, long-term follow-up and rehabilitation. It is therefore important that responsibility for the measures becomes clear, and at the same time the right of the drug user to treatment should become clearer than current practice shows. This may require both action and a change of attitude by authorities and health professionals. The consequences of long-term abuse put the drug user in a disease situation. This means that such groups of abusers need to be offered in line with other patient groups, as well as the need for social follow-up such as housing, work training, training, etc. The Labour Party gave in connection with the treatment of Rusreform I, Ot.prp. No 3 for 2002–03. We thought it was important to see the entire treatment system in the context. The majority did not agree. That is why we have received such a two-part treatment. In the debate on Rusreform I, the Labour Party said clearly about the cause of our concern for a two-part russo. Through Rusreform I it became clear that parts of the care was to be made public. Some of the drug institutions would become state-owned. They were to go under state health businesses and not deal with tight municipal economic frameworks. Moreover, there was an obvious danger that municipalities would not be able to operate institutions. Drug abusers who were to be treated at state institutions were to become patients, patients’ rights, and municipal ownership. We feared in the context of the Rusreform process that the Government in connection with Rusreform II would propose that the rest become a municipal responsibility. We got that right. In particular, the Rusreform II Government proposes that the institutions which did not become state-owned as a result of Rusreform I become municipal responsibility. This would just give us the two we feared. The institutions would have a wide range of economies to deal with, state or municipal. Worst of all, it was that we could get a class distinction among drug users: Are you dependent on heroin and can/should be treated with e.g. methadone, yes, then you become a state patient with rights and secure finances. If you are a polydrug user, you become a client in the social office with few rights and depending on different local economies. This has an overall opposition all the time since Rusreform II was presented, clearly stating that one would not accept it. One consequence of Rusreform I is that even the other institutions, i.e. under Rusreform II, become state-owned once someone has become. It is this consequence that the government did not take responsibility for, and that there was also a rather lengthy process in the committee to get in place. This has led to a process in Stortinget where a total accumulation now agrees that a two-fold of the drug care is not relevant. That's a good result of the treatment, no matter what majority or minority you might belong to. That means that we get a full government of the care of the drug. The Workers' Party considered that the Government's proposals would create unfortunate distortive effects, with a background of different funding for institutions and treatment. Treatment in state institutions under health enterprises would provide free treatment for patients and municipalities, while specialised treatment in non-governmental institutions, i.e. the municipality, would have to be paid in full by the municipality of residence of the drug addict. This meant that one could often be at risk of having a situation where the question of who would pay would be decisive for the type of specialised treatment chosen. In the worst case, one could witness the loss of treatment due to a lack of funding, and the loser would be the treatment-intensive drug user. With regard to the organisation of drug treatment services in Oslo, the Labour Party believes that an exception should be made primarily because both as a municipality and as a county municipality, Oslo has had an overall care for drug users who have been doing well in all material respects. In our opinion, it is unfortunate to break with a complete offer to replace this with another system. We also see that there may be some difficulties in having a separate system in Oslo and another system in other parts of the country. Others will talk more about the conditions in Oslo. But let me now make it clear that when the views of the Workers' Party do not get a majority, it will next time be unproblematic for us to support the proposal of the majority of the full-state acquisitions of the business in Oslo. Then I would just like to underline briefly, as the case-rapporteur also made clear, the right that one now gets to an individual plan for his treatment. This plan is governed by the Social Services Act. Individual plans will ensure better user involvement, safety and predictability for users, while clarifying the responsibilities. I take this up with me the proposals to which the Workers' Party has been or is co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e718	The representative of Asmund Kristoffersen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e721	Let me start by saying that I am glad that the government parties turned for almost twelve hours, and that the health profession in the Government got through. I'm glad. It's also quite in line with what the professionals out there thought in their care. It's now in place. The current situation is the end of a significant reform: responsibility for the treatment and rehabilitation of our drug users is transferred from social legislation to health businesses and health legislation from 1 January next year. The drug addicts will now be allowed to become patients in line with me and you from 1 January next year, and get rid of this stigmatizing client stamp that has been irreparably damaging to them throughout all years. This is an important situation for those drug addicts. It is also a joyous day for the Progress Party, who in his time travelled the case and has worked towards this goal over several years. Unfortunately, it was not possible to do this in connection with the fact that the hospitals were taken over by the state during the corporate reform, but the time when the then health minister Tore Tønne promised to come back to the matter. We are now in goal, which we should all be satisfied with. I am also pleased that this part of the hospital reform has been well followed up by our current health minister. The Patient Rights Act, which is being treated in these days, with a significant improvement in the legal right to healthcare, will now also include those drug addicts who, until today, have met with unwillingness, insensibility and direct harassment in the public utility. As I see it, the shifting of the treatment of those drug addicts from social legislation to health legislation will give this care a far higher performance in professional environments. It should also be expected that drug addicts will be more empathised with treatment than has been the case so far. Personally, I will be able to promise that I will follow closely how enterprises from 2004 give priority to the care of the needs of the economic situation in which enterprises are now located. The Progress Party will not at all accept that drug treatment in state form should also be a priority, as it has so far been under social law. In the social committee, there has been a discussion about whether Oslo, with the main emphasis of rehabilitation institutions in the field of drug care, should be excluded from the amendment of the law and continue to operate under social legislation. In a letter to the Minister of Health dated 13 June 2003, the Minister of Health asked for an assessment of how the Minister of Health saw one or more municipalities being excluded from the amendment. In response to the Committee of 16 June, the Minister for Health shall state the following: ‘If a person makes a derogation for Oslo and retains the regulation of the social services law for these services, users of Rusreform II services on a national basis will have different rights depending on their geographical affiliation. Users in the rest of the country applying for Rusreform II services will be subject to health law and, inter alia, to the Patient Rights Act. The users of the Oslo Municipality will not be patients in the sense of the Patient Rights Act, as these services in Oslo will be social services and not health services. This implies an unfortunate discrimination between users with equal needs, but where criteria related to geographicality are crucial. The users of Oslo will not be guaranteed the rights of other users in the country.’» For its part, the Progress Party has been clear on this issue all along, namely that the whole care system had to be transferred to health legislation, without exception for any municipality. In this context, however, I would like to commend Oslo for the fact that they have gradually been able to build up a good low-threshold offer for their drug addicts. But it does not require that they remain responsible after this amendment. On the part of the Progress Party, there has been concern for users, i.e. the addicts in Oslo, who have been decisive, and we do not find that the addicts in Oslo will profit from being outside of health legislation, rather the opposite. As I see it, we would have an A and B team in terms of treatment, and in particular I stress that the addicts are now covered by the Patient Rights Act. The minority in the Social Committee, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have clearly become pressurised by their party groups in Oslo, a pressure to which we have all been subjected, but which some of us have the power to oppose according to the gravity of the matter. Actually, I believe that all the party groups in the Social Committee are well pleased with what is now happening, namely that we get a majority to transfer the entire treatment chain to a unified state responsibility of the enterprises. It will now be a responsibility for the Social Committee to follow up on the development of the reform and ensure that this concern is not neglected in enterprises. Then, of course, I am glad that the minority will also vote subsidiaryly for the vote. It is not a big surprise, but there is much to be taken into account in politics that is not very affordable.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e751	When Stortinget dealt with Rusreform I, SV made it clear that we felt that both drug reforms should be seen together. Thus, a distinction had been made by the Government in the treatment of specialised health services and their transfer to the State, i.e. Rusreform I, and Rusreform II, which referred to the specialised social services. I would say that the experience with the treatment just in the case of Rusreform II shows that it would have been far better to deal with both issues together. What we in SV have felt very secure about is what should be in both terms, and what should possibly represent the difference between institutions. We don't think we've ever got a good overview of it. There can often be a hairy limit drawn between a specialised health institution and a specialised institution linked to social services in terms of actual content. For SV's part, I would like to say that we also look at the kind of border crossings that are artificial. It is the case that a drug addict must be given exactly the same rights as any other resident in Norway. We also need to ensure that in the services — whether the provision of treatment is to be done locally under the responsibility of primary health services and local social services, or as specialised services — there must be an overall treatment chain that works for drug users as for others. In the past, we have been concerned that the law on mental health protection should be used as an instrument for the treatment of drug users with mental disorders. We know that many of the dominant symptoms we see in drug users can be mental symptoms. Sometimes they can be the cause of the development of drug abuse; sometimes they get into the extension of the substance misuse itself. The abuse causes such symptoms. Unfortunately, a number of drug users — particularly those who have a problem with drug abuse, but also those who use alcohol — have been able to experience rejection by specialised institutions. This applies particularly to hospital services, both in psychiatric hospitals and in somatic settings, because they perceive that this is not their personal responsibility. For SV, it is important to clarify the level of data protection on an ongoing basis not only in the different laws, such as: in the law on mental health protection, but also in relation to the law we are now dealing with. It will be important for us to remove the artificial distinctions that I have described here, between the social services law and the law on specialist health services. Unfortunately, the discussion of this matter in the social committee has not given us the overview that I think should have been given in relation to what kind of services that cannot really be considered as specialist health services, but more as a rehabilitation service in charge of different municipalities, and which may not naturally belong at the specialist level. You should have had such an overview. This would have meant that with much greater clarity you could have gone in and said what should naturally be in the municipalities, and what should be at the specialist level. I record that the head of the committee is almost reluctant that some parties choose to take into account recordings that have come from Oslo. But Oslo is in a special position in the treatment of drug users. There can be no doubt that over many years many who have an abuse problem have chosen to travel from their places to Oslo, and Oslo has in particular been given a responsibility that has not necessarily had an economic backbone to bear, but according to its assumptions good services have been developed. Those experiences are important to take into account further. And when the signal has been so clearly across political divides of the City Council in Oslo, that you want to be responsible for the services and develop them further, it has been important for us to meet such a desire. At the same time, there has been a desire on our part to have a review of the law, and we have asked for a review by the ministry, with legal assistance in order to make a law adapted to such a situation. Unfortunately, it has proved not to be possible within the deadlines we set. And when we recognize that a majority believes otherwise, it is therefore not natural for us to make any proposal with an alternative legal text. But our primary position is that while services are generally transferred to the state level of health enterprises, including in the case of Rusreform II, Oslo will retain its responsibility for that type of service, and then related to Rusreform II. Because it is likely that today the majority will adopt a different solution than what we want, we have as a consequence a proposal to be dealt with in the Stortinget, which is that the Stortinget asks the Government in connection with the state of health companies taking over the former county municipal responsibility within the drug field – Rusreform II – to make an exception for the Municipality of Oslo, so that Oslo continues to have overall responsibility for the drug field. I understand that the proposal is actually promoted by Asmund Kristoffersen, but I repeat for safety here that we are co-sponsors and want to promote it. The process that has been around this matter has not been successful. I agree with those who have said that it is still good that the Stortinget is able to take a decision that will allow action to be taken from 1 January onwards in the field of drugs. However, it is clear that while there is a clearer, more tidy legal framework in this field, there is a significant way to recognise that drug users are being treated too poorly and that they are being managed in a poor way. There are too many examples of some and each of us seeing people who have significant problems not least in dealing with drugs, not recognizing the problems and finding the means necessary to help them. I think it must be right to say that for many years the Stortinget has been involved in a search for instruments that they have not yet found. When the law enters into force, it will therefore be very important for SV to consider how economic instruments can also be used to care for drug users in a much better way than what you are doing today. Part of what we've seen, including in Oslo, for example. The problem about Plata, about people who feel rejected, and who reappear along Akerselva, who don't have a place to be, and who feel that they are just pushed through police power from one place to another, is the situation with which we politicians cannot accept to live. We need to have a completely different kind of dialogue with the different environments that have knowledge of the drug field than we have now. A month ago, I was in a meeting arranged by the Norwegian Narcotics Association, which was very thoughtful for me. Many of the measures proposed by drug users themselves could have been implemented, not in the context of liberalising Norwegian drug policy or in the treatment of drugs in general, but to a greater extent in agreement with those who are struggling with the problems, in such a way that results could be better achieved. Therefore, as politicians, we should go into those environments to a much greater extent, seek to gain understanding of the knowledge that both drug addicts themselves and those who have worked in the field are involved, so that we can move on in this field in a more dignified way than we have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e774	For the Christian People's Party, it is an important objective that drug policy leads to a significant reduction in the social and health damage caused by drug use. It is tragic that many over 1,000 people die each year in Norway as a result of alcohol and drug abuse. It is therefore in the broadest sense to save lives. The Christian People's Party sees it as very important that one facilitates a long-term follow-up and rehabilitation of those who need help to become drug free. It is important to take into account the needs of individuals. Many people will need space in an institution for periods. The county authorities have made a good offer, but as a result of the transfer of the specialist health service to the state, it was decided that several institutions for drug users should also be transferred from the county to the state. The change was called Rusreform I. Today, Rusreform II is being treated, which basically wants care for drug users to be transferred to the municipalities. The aim of the reform is to improve the provision of services to drug users by providing them with an integrated response chain with the user in the centre. Municipalities would be fully responsible for this user group. In addition, there are proposals for the right to individual levels of social services. The proposal would ensure that persons with long-standing and complex needs for services would have a fully coordinated and customised offer. The Christian People's Party primarily supports this. The work of the Committee has led the majority to want institutions to be part of the healthcare system and to the need for drug addicts to have the same status as patients and thus to be covered by the Patient Rights Act. This means that county drug institutions are to be transferred to state health establishments as part of the specialist health service, like Rusreform I. As the rapporteur has already mentioned, there was a desire from several parties for a state acquisition, but with an exception scheme for individual municipalities – and Oslo in particular. This is very problematic. The legal status of users would be enshrined in different legislation, depending on the geographical affiliation. The scheme would give the Municipality of Oslo operational responsibility for parts of the specialist health service. The Christian People's Party cannot support a solution that is so complicated, both legitimate, managerial and administrative. We believe that such a fragmentation will weaken the offer to the users. On this basis, the Christian People's Party will vote for the transfer of municipal drug institutions to the state of regional health enterprises. It is positive that both the administrator and the municipal social service should be entitled to refer those with drug problems to institutions providing specialised treatment. This strengthens treatment opportunities for users and gives hope for better care.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e795	The central party believes that it was unfortunate for the government to present the future organisation of care for drug users in two rounds, namely through Rusreform I, which was treated in Ot.prp. No 3 for 2002–03 and now by addressing Rusreform II in Ot. pp. No 54 for 2002-2003. This approach by the Government has been unforeseeable and unbridled, and has made it difficult to give a comprehensive and comprehensive assessment of the organisation, form of association and funding to benefit drug users. I also find reason to recall that the Center Party was the only party that was not linked to a future organisational model when dealing with Rusreform I. However, we must note that the Government was given a majority in its proposal to transfer important tasks in the field of drugs to the specialist health services and the state of health establishments. We believe that the drug addicts group is a complex group of different needs that needs to be taken into account in treatment and rehabilitation. The need for health care for both somatic and psychiatry will in many cases also be present in the context of more social care and rehabilitation. In the opinion of a majority, it calls for multidisciplinary treatment and a rehabilitation scheme where it is very unfortunate that a distinction is made between the health and social professions in two different areas of responsibility, as the Government primarily proposed and laid down in the odelstningsproposition. We point out that, in the context of county responsibility, this was combined, but through Rusreform I and through the hospital reform, a majority of people have changed these assumptions, so that county municipal operations and county ownership are no longer relevant as a collective and unified treatment and rehabilitation body. Then we would in the case get three levels, and that's very unfortunate. I'll come back a little bit to Oslo, because there's a special relationship there. We think that the proposition has many weaknesses in it. This applies, inter alia, to: registration of existing institutions and their professional and treatment levels and qualities. We believe that the proposition also has shortcomings in pointing out how transfer procedures should be and how future ownership/management responsibilities should be dealt with in relation to the economy in the event of acquisition, including for those who dispose. With regard to operational responsibilities, economics and accessibility to premises and treatment, the state is now taking full responsibility. But I still put big question marks in the margin of this setting and in the proposition that the Government put forward. The lack of clarity in the way of operations affects those in need of this treatment, namely drug users. It is the greatest weakness of the reform. As the Government put it up primarily, we share the view that many hearing bodies had when they thought that this arrangement from the Government would create A and B institutions and A and B drug users. When it comes to taking responsibility for health businesses and countries, we will draw particular attention to the established centres of expertise on drug issues around health regions. We believe that there is competence and practical insight that healthcare businesses now need to use, and that a good interaction pattern needs to be established between these centres of expertise and healthcare companies, so that you can get a professionally good treatment and a professionally good offer right away. The centre party supports what is proposed in terms of the right to an individual plan and that this is now included in the Social Services Act. We believe that cooperation between social services, municipal health services and specialist health services is so important that we want to ensure this cooperation through, among other things. that you get a team that can look at accommodation and permanent applications in municipalities. The decision of the drug addict and, where appropriate, the social curator should join this permanent application team, and we hope that we can have a majority for that today. Furthermore, we believe that Oslo is in such a special position that they should have the overall responsibility for the drugs field as they are and have been municipalities and municipalities. So they're in a special position, and I hope the government will consider this in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e814	The function of a reform must be to seek other solutions in order to offer a better offer than is the case. I perceive that in the issue of providing drug users with a better treatment system with a greater degree of dignity, there has also been a need to listen, listen to those who have more experience, who are closer to the problem and who can identify what to do. I say this as an introduction, because I was so surprised to hear the head of the committee Alvheim's understanding that the representatives of the minority in the committee who will make an exception for Oslo, obviously do not represent a good proposal, but are the result of considerable pressure! Allow me then to believe that the representative Alvheim must believe that everyone who has a different opinion from what he himself should have. It is in a way to value serious suggestions in a way that makes this – which is an important and complicated theme – into a matter that one wants to profit on himself, by telling him that both before, under and after he has had a solidly anchored position that always, at any time, is the right position. It's not important to make Oslo more special than what Oslo is. But when Oslo represents such a large part of the problem, it is important to address the question of whether other approaches can be used to find the best possible solutions, because these are the best possible solutions to be found. I think the whole committee's been busy. The City Council sees itself as a serious consultative body, and has presented this problem to the City Council for treatment. I think all the party groups that have really taken it seriously, and will solve this as best they can, give the best possible answer. From that point of view, various proposals from the various parties were put forward, and it all ended up with a unanimous decision in Oslo City Council. It's great -- it's the city council that represents the geographical area that has the biggest problems, no matter how you count on it. The problem is so big that if we don't solve this in Oslo, we don't find a national solution. Then you have to listen – listen with great weight – to what they say, and why they say it. So Oslo isn't asking for anything more special than what Oslo is, but Oslo says that you've now developed a continuous treatment system that you think is worth taking care of. That's what Oslo says across the party lines and is now first asking Odelstinget and later the Stortinget to take a stand across the party dividers, because you can't make policies of what's the everyday lives of drug addicts. You just have to go together and ask the question, how can we solve this problem in a better way than what we've done up to now? Oslo is no more special than having managed to develop a coherent treatment system. That's all you're really saying. A weakening of this coherent treatment provision is the drug user who has to bear the consequences, not the policy makers. At the same time, when a request is made for a derogation for Oslo, it is requested to ensure a future treatment offer with the drug user at the centre and which may still be based on the fact that even a drug user is entitled to dignity. A drug addict shall not become a piece of a political game. I hope that during the process you can find that what is the minority's proposal for a special scheme for Oslo can become the perception of a total increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e832	Strengthening treatment provision for drug users has been central to the work of the Government. There's several ways to do this. One of them has been reorganising and cleaning up the provision of institutions for drug users, i.e. The Russian reforms. The introduction of the right to individual levels under the Social Services Act is different. The government's objectives have been: improving the services of drug users, creating a whole chain of responses to the need to organise measures to capture the individual needs of drug addicts in order to ensure that the diversity and breadth of supply are clear, and to cooperate between and within the responsible levels of administration; The aim of the organisation and responsibilities is to prevent grey areas and discharges that make drug addicts and their relatives into wasteballs in the system. I am concerned that the apparatus is able to identify, capture and offer help to people who are developing an abuse career. We faced three alternatives in the organisation of the county's residual responsibility: continue as before, which virtually no one wants to add responsibility to the State to add responsibility to the municipalities The government proposed the last – and this is well justified in the proposition – but notes that there is no majority in favour of this. The choice of organisation is a question of where to draw the line between the responsibilities of the municipal social service and regional health enterprises. To put it another way: what is specialist health service, and what is part of the municipality's natural responsibilities? However, in order to ensure the overall level of service provision, the challenge is to ensure good cooperation tools, as well as finding a good link between the responsibilities of the two services. In the setting, the boundary between the responsibilities of the municipal social service and the responsibilities of regional health enterprises has been drawn elsewhere, i.e.: that the State of regional health establishments should also be responsible for Rusreform II services and that these services should be designated as specialised health services. That doesn't mean that the social dimension is no longer important. Regional health enterprises take over the entire existing county responsibility, including the responsibility for including the social pedagogical approach in their work. This is also reflected in the legislative wording. Regional health enterprises are responsible for ‘cross-disciplinary specialised drug abuse treatment’. The reforms do not alter the overall responsibility of the municipal social service for drug users. This responsibility continues. The position is a good compromise between the government parties and the Progress Party. The main idea behind the Government’s proposal — a sharing of responsibility for drug users’ actions between two actors, which ensure good tools for coordination and cooperation between themselves — is clear. We wanted to clear and simplify. The solution selected does not change that. The reform ensures that both social services and doctors have access to referrals, which means that the drug user can be referred to treatment in the institution of the instance with which he or she first comes into contact. I am pleased that it is now legal for the specialist health service institution to provide social services before printing when printing will require follow-up of social services. This will reduce the ‘loops’ that often exist between measures. Moreover, the reform implies that individuals under the social services law, as under health law, should have the right to individual levels when long-term and coordinated services are needed. Many drug users have such needs. This is important in order to ensure comprehensive and coordinated services for addicts. Not least the follow-up is carried out before, during and after institutionalisation. This right will apply to all persons who need long-term and coordinated services under the Social Services Act. I think it contributes to active user involvement, greater security and predictability for users, clarification of responsibilities and ensuring coordination and cooperation between different parts of the service provider. It is very gratifying that a collective social committee is behind the Government's proposal on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e886	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e889	Let me first thank the Minister of Social Affairs for the good cooperation that has been at the brink of dealing with this matter. I respect that very much and I appreciate it. The question I have for the Minister of Social Affairs is going on in the future of MARIO. I have received signals that MARIO as it is today is going to be divided into two different units, one of which is going to be transferred to the enterprise and the other unit is going to remain in Oslo as a municipal affair. Can the Minister of Social Affairs confirm that this is right, and can the Minister of Social Affairs elaborate on this so that it is possible to understand what is going on here?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e898	I understand that the representative Alvheim addresses the issue of the time after 1 January 2004 and also about the important offer that is in relation to MARIO. Now it is such that this matter concerns two state councils. I will refrain from answering that question, but I will leave it to the Minister of Health in the next round, because it affects the time after 1 January 2004 and the organisation that will be then. The issue is central and important for both those involved and for governance and organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e905	The Minister for Social Affairs was concerned about preventing grey areas, and we agree with that. In most drug users, they need treatment for the environment and for both social education and psychosocial interventions. These are help and measures that the drug user needs to have at the specialist level. Is it not, then, that the proposal that the State should take over is more appropriate and perhaps better designed to avoid grey areas than whether the municipalities should have this responsibility and depend on very much assistance from specialist level? Finally, despite drug reform, prevention is one of the most important, including rapid intervention when the abuse is a reality. Will the Minister of Social Affairs make sure that the municipalities have a better economy for this important work?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e914	The representative of Lutvold addresses an important issue, and I start with the last question, which concerns prevention. What is happening in and in relation to the municipalities? It is important to establish that primary responsibility remains in the municipalities in terms of overall responsibility for drug users, including prevention. It is the case that today municipalities have significant parts of the welfare system — municipal health services, social services, child protection, housing offices, schools. Everything that moves in relation to the individual is there. With regard to the possibility of early detection of the risks of abuse, and with regard to prevention, work shall be carried out there. In many municipalities, there are also many and important key partners of cooperation, such as: Aetat, the social security offices, the police and the Church. We see many good examples of the fact that municipalities are using all these agencies, making it possible to get a good prevention job.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e923	This coordination at the specialist level of social services and health services also brings together two very different treatment cultures. It is often seen that referral from social services places the emphasis on key factors such as housing, different social security schemes that need to be put in place, there may be occupational rehabilitation, while often it has been seen that when the health service refers to it, it is pointed out that there is a need for somatic treatment or treatment of mental disorders. It is precisely the sum of these approaches that can contribute to providing a comprehensive range of services. This means that it is important to look at referral procedures, and that the issues raised when the specialist healthcare service is going to deal with this matter are fading to the extent that it becomes a comprehensive long-term plan. How does the Minister for Social Affairs view this whole issue in terms of referral procedures?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e930	What is new is that we get a cooperation tool where there are two applications from municipalities, both from social services, which are responsible for this today, and which have a long tradition of doing so, and from their permanent staff. This is going to be two possibilities, and not just the one that drug users have had today. By opening up referrals from doctors as well, it will be evident that the doctor needs to be much more closely involved in the health situation of the individual drug addict. This is new, it's new crime. It is important for the Government to evaluate this – we have said after two years – precisely to look at how this interaction can happen, and that we also have a dialogue between the social services and the medical services in the municipalities exactly in relation to this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e935	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e938	The Minister for Social Affairs has outlined the background to the drug reforms. With effect from 1 January 2004, the State, by the regional health establishments, will take over the whole administrative apparatus of the county for the provision of drugs to drug users. As a result, the services are defined as multi-disciplinary specialised services provided by the Special Health Service Act, and drug users will receive patient rights. As a recipient responsible, I will follow up on Stortinget's treatment of Rusreform I and II. I have asked regional health companies to prepare their new responsibilities, and the preparations for the acquisition are well under way. But the time is very short until the turn of the year, and the job is very challenging. As far as I am concerned, it seems that the acquisition of businesses and employees and the entry into agreements are as planned. In the governance dialogue with regional health companies, I would like to emphasise that it is a priority task to develop further the provision of treatment to drug users, the provision of health services and the quality of treatment. In the state takeover of specialist health services, regional health businesses were also given responsibility for some measures for drug users. Regional health establishments are now given the opportunity to see the overall treatment provision in the context, also in relation to treatment provision in somatic and psychiatric settings, in order to provide the most appropriate and comprehensive treatment for the individual drug user. A substantial part of the transferred treatment offer is made up of private institutions. Of the 74 activities covered, 42 private institutions currently either have operating agreements or sub-contracts with county councils. Regional health enterprises enter into the contractual relationship of the county. The government assumes that private activities will continue to be key actors to contribute to the provision of services to drug users also in the specialist health service. Regional health businesses therefore need to further develop their ability to order and develop good agreements with private actors for the benefit of drug users in need of treatment. While clarifying the responsibilities of the specialist health service and taking over responsibility from regional health businesses, we must also follow up the Sem Declaration and the Government Action Plan on Drugs, which underlines the need for a comprehensive aid and treatment provision. Municipalities will continue to have co-ordinated and overall responsibility for drug users, and long-term follow-up responsibilities are central to the success of patients after their stay in treatment. Now, local health services and decision-makers will also have greater responsibilities, including: by referring to multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug problems. This will mean that the medical aspects are more focused on referrals. At the same time, social services are also guaranteed access to referrals in line with community health services. This is important because much of the local authority’s competence in the field of drug users is in the social service. In response to the Ministry of Health recently, the Medical Association pointed out this dimension, that doctors see the need for social services to continue to play a central role in the follow-up of drug users. A major success criterion for drug reform is the interaction of services. Many drug users have extensive needs for help, and it is necessary that both doctors and social services contribute to cooperation around the individual. The Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, will develop a regulation that will regulate referral practices, and we will evaluate how this works. The reform also establishes an important interaction tool to ensure better coordination of different services. The right to an individual level is provided for in the Social Services Act and, if the patient so wishes, the Special Health Service Act receives a social service alert obligation. In this context, I would also like to point out that, through the participation of doctors in medically assisted rehabilitation, better cooperation will be developed. The government will also follow up the needs for coordination in the service provision of drug users in the sample currently set up, which will look at the interaction between different levels of healthcare, and in the sample assessing harmonisation of municipal health and social legislation. I will also follow up on the Committee's request to evaluate cooperation between social services and healthcare. I have noticed that a majority of the social committee refers to Oslo being in a special position. I want to ensure through appropriate governance channels that Health East cooperates with the Municipality of Oslo in the context of the takeover of responsibility. I can tell you that there is a very good dialogue going on between the Ministry of Health and the Municipality of Oslo, and Health East is involved in the preparatory work. I regard the present reform as a very important and decisive step in developing better services for drug users overall, and not least raising those at the bottom of the health care table to be patients with rights like others. It is a pleasure to be part of such a reform, and I will do my best to make it successful.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e962	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e966	I was in my speech saying that in all health regions, one or more state-funded centres of expertise on drug issues have been established, and that these should now be involved in relation to the responsibilities of health businesses. I want to ask, is the Minister of Health of the same mind? How has the Minister for Health in the event that health businesses are to interact with these centres of competence? What action will be taken to ensure that this competence becomes a service, and can the services be provided as well as now, when health businesses are at state level?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e973	In this field, it is important that all good forces cooperate with a view to developing both the content and the structure of services, so that they are better represented by those whom they meet. Regional centres of excellence are already in good operation both with municipal health and social services and with hospitals. I assume that cooperation will only be easier and better when we receive a transfer of county responsibility to state enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e980	I agree with the Minister for Health that the time is short until 1 January. When that happened, I think we can divide the blame for it roughly equally between the social committee and the departments. I am very happy to hear that the Minister of Health is already preparing, and that the signals and the message are now in the companies, so that we spend the time well until 1 January to make this work. I think it will be a positive side effect of the amendment we are making today, in relation to the statutory tasks on the care side for drug addicts. The municipalities will feel more or less persecuted by what is happening on the other hand, in the treatment system and in the rehabilitation system, and cannot easily avoid the tasks they are assigned to when the law enters into force. So finally, I would like to point out the question I asked the Minister for Social Affairs: would the Minister for Health please elaborate a little bit about MARIO?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e989	I'm going to answer the question related to the MARIO Center. There is currently a co-financed measure with a State contribution of 81 million. SEK, of which 21 million. NOK for operation and SEK 6 million. for medicinal products. In addition to the operating grant from the State, Oslo Municipality provides a municipal operating grant of between 17 and 18 million. kr. The municipality of Oslo has chosen to add some urban health services and social welfare follow-up to the MARIO Centre. As a result of this co-financing between the State and the Municipality of Oslo, MARIO appears to be a unit that covers tasks at two levels of government. In order to ensure the best possible consideration for LAR clients in Oslo, the Municipality of Oslo has chosen to contribute to its efforts towards its LAR clients by coordinating municipal efforts with the state action that MARIO is. As a result, the municipality has contributed 17 million. kr for the operation of MARIO in 2003, and it appears to have been a good model. What I am concerned about in this connection is that these activities should be seen as an overall service for users even after 1 January, but the background and the various responsibilities that have been put into the service mean that we need to clear up the responsibilities. The point is that we have a dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo to ensure that there is an overall offer for users in the future, even if it has to be cleared up in the back.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e998	The Health Minister gets more to do, and he seems well pleased with it! I'm going to address some of the same issue as the Social Minister – not because I was dissatisfied with the answer, but simply because I see it as important. In dealing with drug users, it is important that it is done in chains and that the various actors are committed in an obligatory manner. When looking at the law on mental health protection, it is seen that it is the formulation of somatic studies of the person to be admitted to an institution, who undertakes, very often at that time, to carry out such a study. There have been no such obligations in relation to social service law. So you've been able to refer to an institution without the doctor being in the picture at all. In Oslo, it has been said that very many drug users have no relationship with special doctors. They're related to their curator, but not to the game. One way to make the doctor responsible may be to enter into obligations to have a somatic examination before being admitted to an institution — without red tape, but in that way to make the doctor responsible. Does the Council of State have a sense of such an approach?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1007	It has been stated that both the councillor and the municipal social service should be able to refer. The background is that today’s pattern is that social services have competence and a central role. Many drug users have little or no contact with their regulars, and many doctors have little knowledge of the field. What we want to do by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health is to draw up a regulation together with stakeholders that will regulate referral practices and ensure coordination of referrals from doctors and social services and that health care providers assess these references equally. Then we will take with us the idea that the representative Ballo mentioned. In its opinion, the Government also asks for an evaluation of cooperation between social services and health services in relation to drug care within two years, with special emphasis on the referral system, and we will try to follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1016	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1021	The most important thing about Rusreform II is that each drug addict finally receives a better service provision. Through the statutory right to individual levels in the Social Services Act, drug users with long-standing and complex needs for services will finally be seen and heard. And each user will have an integrated, coordinated and customised service provision. This means that regardless of the boundaries of responsibility between administrative levels, drug users and their dependants should no longer be wasteballs in the system. A common individual plan shall cover services under the Local Health Services Act, the Special Health Service Act, the Mental Health Act and the Social Services Act. Patients treated in institutions for drug problems will now have the same rights as other patients. It's very positive. In Norway, we have been better at punishing than treating drug users for far too long, and the social fraction of the Right has been impatient to achieve a rapid, comprehensive and reinforced treatment provision for all those who need it. The right is pleased that it is now finally cleared up in the responsibilities of the drug administration, and that the government has shown an offensive line from the first day. It is very critical that drug users and their relatives have not been taken seriously in the past. The situation of relatives is also difficult. It is therefore positive that, as part of the prevention work, the Government has established a guidance telephone for its relatives. Drug use is no longer a typical urban problem, but a serious, growing problem also in small municipalities. Finally, through the reform, drug users will receive better treatment in a comprehensive service system, where the rights of users are the same irrespective of their place of residence. The government has already launched several measures to help the most worn-out abusers, and the Minister of Justice has clearly informed the police that they should give priority to taking the backers rather than sending the police on worn-out abusers. Treatment provision must enter the prisons of those who are zones. It is therefore positive that the Minister of Justice is working on a proposal to extend the treatment regime rather than punishment for those with drug problems. Drugs are an increasing problem across the Nordic region, and we are experiencing increased liberalisation in several countries in Europe. International cooperation is essential to succeed in reducing the extent and damage of drug use. I am therefore pleased that Norway in the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Baltic States has recently signed a cooperation declaration, under the name of the Lund Declaration. Cooperation is based on a common basic vision, with both prevention, good treatment and effective criminal policy focusing on backers and criminal networks. This shows that the government has an overall strategy in relation to the drug problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1042	If several of the Storting's apartments for the representatives had been on the east side of Akerselva instead of the Green Street and on the rest of the west side, I am absolutely convinced that this matter would have another outcome. I believe that Oslo and the other big cities would be fully responsible for the follow-up of drug users. For if the representatives had greeted several drug addicts at Plata and down at the Central Station instead of greeting the King at the Castle on the way up to Greennegate, I am sure that they had heard both the drug addicts and the Outreach saying that what is necessary, what is needed, is an overall offer. It's housing, it's detoxification, it's follow-up. So I have no faith in such an offer that the specialist health service can be able to provide. That is the main reason why we were skeptical – that I am skeptical – of what the Government and the Advance Party are now joining together. For full state takeover, then, there is a contradiction with what the Government says it stands for, namely increased local responsibility, which was also the basis of its first proposal. But we were sceptical about that, because we didn't have any faith that small municipalities like Røst could have as good a bearing on what a drug addict needed, for example. a big city like Bergen or Oslo. Our main view, which we also referred to in connection with the municipal proposition, i.e. Innst. S. No 259 for 2002–03 is that large cities such as Bergen, Stavanger, cities that wanted to do so, which had applied for this and felt that they had competence, would have the opportunity to solve the drug problem and be given overall responsibility. These are right-towns. In addition, you have Tromsø and Trondheim, who also asked for this. We find it strange that the Right – when they usually say in their party speeches that it should no longer be such that all municipalities should be responsible for all tasks – does not see that it must then be possible to give some tasks, such as: the task of drug addicts to the largest municipalities. But we have now ended up proposing that Oslo, which is in a very special situation, and which has previously been responsible for these services, Oslo, which already has a derogation from the Child Protection Act, Oslo, which is a city with 50 pst. drug users will be given the opportunity to continue to provide a comprehensive range of services. It is much better to be in a grey zone and could get an overall offer than that the situation is black and white and you get a worse offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1049	I think that a bit of the main problem as experienced today for a drug addict is not that they are in a grey zone, but in a dirt hole where no one takes responsibility for them. I think the posts both from the representative Bjørgov Froyn and the representative Heikki Holmås were good lines for their own parties' main figures. I just want to remind them that Oslo City Council supported the Government's proposal in its hearing opinion. It would have been possible for both the Workers' Party and SV to create a majority of the Government's proposals, which had been entirely in line with the wishes of the City Council of Oslo. It was not possible to succeed. With regard to the description of this so-called exemption model for Oslo, which both representatives came up with, one gets the impression that the exception that their own parties are in favour of would have been a continuation of the current situation for Oslo. So it's not. It would have been, in relation to the comments that are made, a change in relation to the law, namely, under the Special Health Act, a change in funding, and it would have been a change in relation to rights. In reality, the exemption proposed by the Workers' Party and SV would be a non-content rail exemption. What is the main problem with the contributions of the representative Heikki Holmås is that his own party did not take root in Oslo’s situation, but in Røst’s situation, when they chose the main model. I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1056	I have probably recorded that some representatives in this house go to the pulpit just to be registered for having been there and to come in the local view afterwards. For the arrangements which the representative Heikki Holmås held here, one should look for a long time. In his opinion, the Social Committee does not at all have any idea of what it is doing. It's quite dry, and I hope he will take it back from this pulpit. So he said something strange. He said that SV is against, but then he got into it and said that «I am skeptical», «I» have no faith in this reform. Is it the case that the representative Heikki Holmås does not believe in it, or is it the Socialist Left Party who does not believe in this reform, as they have suggested that they will vote in favour of it? What do right-communists now have to do with this case? I have lived for a while, and I know what problems it has been in Oslo, in Bergen and in Trondheim for many years, with different political governance. It's so sought after – I would almost say, if I'm allowed to say it – that it's simply too stupid to argue that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1066	However, the President doubts whether the word ‘stupid’ is particularly clever to use in this Chamber, and asks the representative Alvheim to take note of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1069	I see Alvheim thinks what I'm saying is too stupid. That's stupid. Our starting point is just to take into account what the big cities have said, especially Oslo, which has been in a very special position, that these are issues that we can solve. We've been trying to get a solution for Oslo, just for that reason. But I record that the representative Alvheim continues his crusade so that the state will decide everything, and that people will decide nothing, and call it easy when we listen to the people who speak in this context. He believes that we are weak who bend off for pressure, for example. from Oslo. I record that the representative Alvheim's own party trap, Svenn Kristiansen, and the others in Oslo believe that Oslo should still retain responsibility for the care of Russo. So it's true, as the representative Bent Höie says, that with the proposal that SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre have presented here today, we will have a switch to patients' rights, to drug addicts. There will be a change in the funding system. But we also noticed that when we ask for an explanation of how this can be done in practice, and how this can be solved, the government chooses not to come up with a really complete scheme that allows us to vote for an alternative legal formula here. I believe that when we are able to find solutions for the Oslo Municipality in other contexts, this cannot be so complicated that we should not be able to solve the problem if there is a political will. But it is clear that when there is another political majority, consisting of, among other things, The government parties – and I think it’s actually a point that the Right does not listen to its own overthrown big cities in this case – who do not want to find a solution for Oslo, it says something about creating a political majority for a reform here rather than finding the best solution in the situation we’re facing. Now that's my clear opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1078	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 33]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1086	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1093	During the debate, Siv Jensen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1122	There is an alternative proposal from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the Act amending Law 17 July 1992 No 99 on voluntary and compulsory indebtedness schemes for individuals II Act 17 July 1992 No 99 on the voluntary and compulsory system of indebtedness for individuals is amended as follows: The third paragraph of Section 4-12 is replaced by the following: For claims other than fines, a proposal for a debt regime may be accepted without prejudice to the provisions of other laws, regulations or individual decisions. [[Debt Orders Act]] [[Debt Orders Act]] The decision to accept the proposal shall be taken as a single decision under the Administrative Act.The present third paragraph shall become a new fourth paragraph.The amendments shall enter into force immediately.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1156	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1166	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1201	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1211	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1260	The Progress Party has announced that they are moving towards the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 5-12.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1275	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1285	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1457	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1470	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1482	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1490	During the debate, Mr Kristoffersen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, put forward the proposals. 1 to 5. Proposals Nos. 2–5 is included in the setting on page 26, while proposal No. 1 is distributed in the hall in a rich form. Proposal No. 1 sounds in enriched form: ‘The decision asks the Government to assume the former county responsibility within the drug field in the state of health establishments [[Rusreform II]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Rusreform I and Rusreform II are evaluated after 2 years. The evaluation shall be submitted to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that user rights are a central part of the simplification and harmonisation of municipal health and social legislation.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess whether it would be appropriate to legislate its own permanent application teams in the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with an assessment of the law on the continuity of treatment for drug users.’ Asmund Kristoffersen – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1521	It may be in place with a explanation of vote, and then I speak on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. So we're going to travel our primary position through the five proposals that are now, by all probability, going to be transmitted to the Stortinget. Once these are transmitted, we will vote in favour of the vote as it exists from the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1526	John Alvheim – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1529	It is a recommendation to the representatives of the Progress Party to vote against proposal No. 1, which is on the representatives' desks.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e1534	Corrected proposal No. 1 and Proposals Nos. 2–5 will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with Section 30(4) of the Rules of Procedure. There you have the opportunity to vote in favour or against, as suggested in the explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e2050	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11-lower.ana.ud2162e2060	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
