ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03.ana.ud733e32	The representatives of Dagrun Eriksen, Eli Sollied Üveraas and Morten Lund, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of André Kåkkestad on leave from 3 March to 5 March to attend a conference at Wilton Park in the United Kingdom from the representative of Haakon Blankenborg on leave on 4 and 5 March to attend meetings of the Council of Europe Political Committee in Paris On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Uppland County: Reidun Gravdahl For Akershus County: Harald Espelund
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03.ana.ud733e73	Harald Espelund is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03.ana.ud733e87	I shall briefly explain the majority position of the Committee in relation to Document No. The 8th proposal from the Progress Party on a referendum at this point in time to separate state and church. The majority, consisting of all parties with the exception of the Advance Party, emphasises that the Government is now to appoint a public commission with a broad representation to assess all aspects of its future relations with the Norwegian Church, including: recorded by the Church's own selection, the Bakkevig Committee, in 2002. The Commission shall prepare the examination of the case by the Government and subsequently by the Grand Duchy. Any decision on the distinction between state and church requires thorough investigations, both to secure the Church financially and to secure an open, inclusive and democratic people's church in the future. The majority will stress the importance of a thorough explanation of all aspects of the case before considering the separation or continuation of the current state church system. It is necessary to have all the consequences clarified by one or the other point of view and to have ensured broad and inclusive participation in the debate. The majority therefore want a public commission to present its investigations and conclusions before considering whether any referendum should be conducted. Only in this way will both the people and the decision-makers have a sufficiently good basis for making such an important decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03.ana.ud733e96	As one of the two proposers behind Document No. 8:54. I would like to point out that the matter contains three aspects. Firstly, there is the use of referendums. An important pillar of the policy of the Progress Party is a clear desire for the use of referendums to improve democratic electoral influence in important matters. The Progress Party considers that referendums are too little used in Norway and would like to increase their use, both in national cases and in local cases. Secondly, the Progress Party believes that the very question of a distinction between state and church is such an important national matter as it is natural to ask the entire population about through a referendum. The background for this is, above all, the obvious fact that the Church itself has concluded through four years of investigation that the time is ripe for a division. It is true that the Church's top formal body, the Council of Churches, wants more investigation, but, in the view of the Party of Advancement, this is a matter that concerns the whole nation, so that voting gives right of opinion. The system of state churches or a church that is clearly separate from the state is an important social issue which, in the opinion of the Progressive Party, clearly concerns far, far more than those which are selected for participation in the Council of Churches in various ways and can vote. It's also that time has obviously worked for a change. I would like to quote the setting of the Bakkevig Committee, which says that 'the society has changed, and the thinking about the state's tasks and responsibilities has become a different one.' Studies also show that many have a clear opinion, and it was also the last harvest of a clear majority in favour of such a distinction. Thirdly, the question of when to conduct such a referendum. The Progress Party considers that the issue of separation is a clear question. The voters actually understand what this is all about. The Progress Party also considers that the issue of the specific scheme, which will contain a number of important elements, will also be well suited to the referendum later on. The main question, the principle itself, is to let the citizens decide on the progress made in this matter. The answer should guide further work on the major and important issue, namely the separation of state and church. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03.ana.ud733e109	Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03.ana.ud733e112	The left has the same position as the People's Party. We think it's too little used, and that it should have been absolutely used in many contexts, especially locally. Some have said that the point of democracy is not that the majority has power, but that the minority has something to say. For the Left as a liberal party, it's important that you actually distinguish between what you can add to the referendum and what you can't add to the referendum. We believe that clear things related to human rights, for example. cannot be added to the referendum. After all, the Progress Party has called for a referendum on whether to accept asylum seekers at all. The Asylum Institute is an institute that is enshrined in human rights, and there is nothing you put to a referendum. For the Left, the question of a distinction between Church and State is strictly in principle. It's about whether the majority can impose a state church on the minority. So I think it's such a fundamental question that it's not a plurality that can determine whether to force a minority into a state church. In fact, it is a fundamental question that politicians have to decide whether or not to force the majority to do so. That is why, in principle, we believe that this is a clear question of human rights. And a clear human rights question is not something you put to a referendum. This isn't about beer pole or not beer pole, or junior in primary school or not junior in primary school. It's here about a very important principleal attitude that the state should have toward religion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03.ana.ud733e121	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03.ana.ud733e137	There is a comprehensive committee in favour of this EU Directive, which aims to provide impact assessments for plans and programmes within sectors such as agriculture, forestry, fisheries, energy, industry, transport, waste management, water resource management, telecommunications, tourism and spatial planning. This is, in the Committee's view, a constructive proposal which will help improve the decision-making base of policy-makers. The case-speaker also finds reason to remind that in Kiev in May a protocol should be signed which includes environmental and health assessments of plans and programmes. Let me take advantage of this in connection with this matter to say something about the EEA issue in general, because we have a yes to the EU majority here on the Stortinget that complains that one does not have the right to vote in Brussels. Now one can say that Norway with 1 pst. the population of any EU will have a limited impact. But what annoys SV is that yes-page here in the house says yes to absolutely everything that comes from Brussels. So they're not using the right of voice they have through the EEA Agreement. The last time was the Environment Minister who pressed through – with nine votes against eight voices in Regeringa – the Life Patents Directive. So there could be another hold of Mr. Børge Burnde, and the government could be able to resist this directive. But once again, yes-page says yes. We have seen the same thing when it comes to make-up, baby food and equality in relation to the fact that we want a more offensive equality policy, which we are not allowed to do, and it is also accepted by the majority of the population. It is also accepted that we cannot operate with the employer's tax policy that we want. There are two ways to do this. The one way is, of course, what the yes-page wants, easy to get into the EU and hopefully believe that someone has any impact there. The second is to get rid of a housekeeper contract that introduces more market management and poorer policies in very many areas of this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03.ana.ud733e152	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2173]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03.ana.ud733e160	The size is ready to vote on the issues on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-03.ana.ud733e167	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to organise a referendum on whether to continue the Church of the State Scheme or whether to prepare and implement a distinction between State and Church.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
