ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e68	The representatives of Kjell Engebretsen, Ingmar Liones, Synnøve Konglevoll and Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: From the delegation of the European Parliament to the EFTA Parliamentary Committee and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee, there is an application for leave, signed by the Head of the delegation, Mr Morten Höglund. The application concerns leave of 15 and 16 December of the representatives of Vidar Bjørnstad, Morten Højlund, Heidi Sørensen and Finn Martin Vallersnes to attend meetings of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee and with the EFTA Ministers in Geneva.From the representative André Kåkkestad on leave from 16 December until 18 December to take part in the pre-election mandate of the Council of Europe to the presidential elections in Georgia. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Sverre Myrli, Harald Espelund and Ib Thomsen. For Oslo: Akhtar Chaudhry For the Rogaland County: Inger Lise Aarrestad
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e134	Sverre Myrli, Harald Espelund, Akhtar Chaudhry and Inger Lise Aarrestad are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e139	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e144	I'd like to suggest Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e149	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Kjell Engebretsen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Kjell Engebretsen are considered unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget’s meetings this week. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that this morning's meeting be interrupted for the Grand Stortinges Christmas Day at 0 p.m. 13.45 – otherwise referred to as the country's saddest [[muttering in the hall]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e167	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Advance Party 25 minutes, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 20 minutes each, Center Party 10 minutes and Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted. As everyone understands, this will be a demanding day, with a demanding agenda. If we're going to be done in such a way that everyone gets to participate in the events that are going to happen during the day, everyone, when they ask for the word, has to think about the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e180	It is evident from the setting of the Municipal Committee that this is an alternative to the Government. The Centre Party, the Labour Party and the SV all want a stronger public commitment to get more people to work, for a more offensive district and housing policy and for a stronger and more solidarity municipal economy. I wonder if the Christian People's Party would also mean the same thing inside. The different parties are going to do their best for their respective setups. Let me just begin by pointing out comments and suggestions such as the Centre Party, the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Swedish Multiplicity for: Four proposals for decisions at the end of the vote relate to appointments to secure more job-restraints. Four relate to better organisation and processes of asylum recipients and the setting-up of refugees, between them a central party initiative that the Government submits a separate case on the asylum reception situation, including better contact between reception and community. Otherwise, the government will be charged with a series of feedback in the 2005 municipal bill on the sequence of inclusion of ear-marked appeals. In point 2.6 of the setting, this is the way things are done for the clay balls, the music and culture spheres and the eleven institutions where basic training is given. In 2.6, the government is also given a clear message to follow closely the resource-requiring system and to go a new round with coastal communities to correct the unfortunate effects of changing responsibility for shooting by health professionals. On behalf of the majority behind 2.6.14, I can stress that the majority of the municipalities that have reported errors about their mental retardation have corrected their numbers and should have the same 100 pst. coverage as others. The centre party has given priority to three areas in the 2004 budget: a targeted, decentralised industrial policy-local welfare, schooling and care fair tax and distribution profile; We have spent a lot of time and effort helping to keep up with ESA's demands when it applies in the future to the main regional policy tool Norway has, the differentiated employer fee. We are very pleased with the constructive cooperation that was first established between the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, then with the Progress Party and also after every government party. This work led to the government having to go a new round to get a better system, including the local government. exceptions for most possible industries in both public and private activities. The electricity tax bill was revealed, and it is added 145 million. kr more for compensation. There is a broad consensus on the permanent compensation and overview of this in the annual budgets and on the regional development role of the county councils in this context. The Committee’s comments are a clear mission for the Government to intensify its efforts. The central party is satisfied with the direction of the budgetary agreement between the Government Party and the Labour Party. An unsocial proposal with a clear right hand stamp has been somewhat better. However, the management of several specialised budgets has fully shown that the Labour Party has been very careful in its requirements. They are now also taking responsibility in the municipal committee's budget for dramatic cuts that will make a difficult everyday life even heavier both for many local populace and for many who have believed that the Labour Party would secure a fine masked social security network for those who need it. The central party believes there is a need for a holistic and offensive effort in the districts to stop the centralization of knowledge, power, capital and construction. People must experience real freedom of choice when it comes to the place of residence and the place of work. Norway is in a special situation with many communities with low population and large distances. Many of the most important resources are in these areas. It is necessary to pursue a policy that helps us to make use of the rich resources we have both on land and in the sea. An offensive district policy provides more work. This requires a positive development for the whole country. Increased resources in areas such as transport, business development, municipal welfare, broadband and measures targeting young people and women are vital. New technologies can provide completely different opportunities than before for more varied jobs in many districts. Experience suggests that it is also about renouncing the citizens of the largest cities to dampen the pressure they now know with strong centralization. We are deeply dissenting at the level of the Government's proposal for the promises. The government relies on the custom of transferring heavy tool areas and tasks without following up adequately with funds. Municipal feeding funds and water supply programmes are examples in the area where responsibility has now been transferred to the county councils. Then they must also have real possibility to follow up. The same is true of obligations towards the 14-municipal group. The centre part will take up 375 million. kr more to regional development than the Government. We believe that it is very important and well used investment. It's in the municipalities people cage. There is a need for good prevention in order to ensure a safe breeding environment. Kindergarten, school, cultural school and a wide range of volunteer work – everything depends on municipalities having the means to carry out their crucial part of the work for safe and inclusive neighbourhoods. It is now necessary in the municipalities to work for a care where people are met with dignity and respect. The central party also wants municipalities to play an important role as co-players in securing a diverse business environment. We want the county councils to have resources for a decentralised secondary school, for culture and transport, including a secure TT system. We want a real strengthening of the task as a regional development actor. It's embarrassing that the government doesn't organize itself with a fairer state after taking over the hospitals, and that the majority now have to oblige her to go a new round when it's due after the government assumes child and family protection, the drug field and the technical colleges. We believe that the Stortinget should consistently reject new tasks for the local government sector without any money. The Municipal Committee has recently been handed over from 138 spokesmen, where the main message is: Enough! Time for action! It is an emergency call that even more municipalities would have agreed if the deadline had not been so short. There is a call for help that needs to be taken seriously and that the Government should also pay attention to the preparation of the Communal Proposition. The central part thinks it's going to be a biased image when one, like the government, only looks at the growth of income in the municipal sector and not at the growth of expenditure, rather takes into account a dramaticly weak tax input. New tasks have been done in the last few years without money being followed. For example, several municipalities have both practical and financial problems related to an increasingly raw hospital printing practice. There is a disclaimer from the Government and the majority of the population when municipalities and municipalities are now blamed for not getting the services they are entitled to. The centre party's alternative budget includes a municipal package of approximately SEK 4.9 billion. It's a follow-up to our 2004 municipal bill, and it's worth 4 billion more in free income. Our starting point is that all municipalities, whether we talk about city, growth or relocation municipalities, need more money for their tasks. We want a stepping-up plan to correct the financial imbalances, reorganization of debt and a more mandatory consultation system between the Government and the KS. We are deeply dissenting in the giant transfer of the government now leading from the smaller to the larger municipalities. VAT neutrality, new cost key for social services, changes in power taxes and the phasing-out of the Rattsø selection seem to be part of the same strategy, a weakening of smaller, but mainly well-functioning municipalities with satisfied users and good supply. We are also deeply dissenting in the municipal minister's production of an unimpeded growth in the number of local authorities added. She should stick to the number of annual works. Then the image becomes different as well as correct. The centre party wants an active housing policy to take place. We firmly believe that the House Bank is the best housing policy tool. We disagree with the Government when it comes to turning the Husbank into a prime home bank. We suggest that the framework for the House Bank be set at 15.5 billion kroner – 2 billion kroner in addition to the government's proposal. We want to increase the housing cost and the added cost of building quality by a total of 330 million. kr. In the interests of individual households, we would like the Ministry to provide good examples from municipalities of charges after consumption. We are calling for the housing message that the government promised before Christmas. It's in a hurry. In a later article, I get back to action to get more people working and to how important it is to strengthen integration. But let me finally say: the proposal No. 4–20 and the Romantic proposals XIV –XIX are strongly recommended. Here, the searchlight has been looked at measures for single minor asylum seekers, removing the low ceiling on costs of re-routing and reintroducing thecommitment of re-routing clients. There are also proposals for the most necessary distribution of the effects of the new VAT reform and a number of other proposals for the benefit of Kommune-Noreg. And then I'm going to deal with the minority proposals that the Central Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e232	The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e237	I know the Center Party and the representative Meltveit Kleppa as relatively pragmatic and busy with good results. There is no inconvenience between the Center Party and the Labour Party. We were now able in the fall to make a budget deal that in many areas made the country better to live next year. Among other things, we increase the free income of the municipalities, we almost double them. We reduced many social cuts, not least when it comes to property. We are increasing the number of action sites by about 6,000 new ones, removing the proposal for a temporary addition and removing the non-social proposal attached to the AFP, to mention something. The Labour Party and the Centre Party agree on many comments and suggestions in this setting. My question to the representative, Mr Kleppa, is whether she is satisfied with the budgetary agreement that has now been negotiated, not only the device, but also the result.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e246	It's right as the Uppebø Hansen says. The central party and the Labour Party are in many important areas for the development of our country now, whether we are talking about the foundations of municipalities, district policy, housing policy or subsampling. But we actually think that the Labour Party has been careful when it comes to the demands they made in the budget agreement. As I said in my post: We are satisfied with the device, but there is a lot at stake for those who have the most difficult things in Norway. The Labour Party has been involved in tightening up, among others. the admission ticket to the sick pay, the rules of leave, the tightening of the reintroduction and the high characteristics, and they have not been able to turn for example. tax on dividends on shares, which would make it possible to do more for those who have the worst.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e251	The centre party is a party full of contradictions. I understand the keynote address that the Center Party is pleased with the Government. Over 6 billion kroner in increased transfers to the local government sector are formidable. When it is also known that in the period from 1995 to today there were only two years of negative real growth for the municipal sector – that was in the years 1998-1999 – and that over the two years we had a municipal minister from the Central Party, I understand that Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa wants it forgotten. Now, unfortunately, all the Center Party is concerned about, the opposition billions they're sending out for all good purposes. When the central party municipalities receive billions more, it does so at the same time as the party does not want to be more efficient or competitive. Why is it so important for the representative of Meltveit Kleppa that there is no requirement for a sector with over DKK 200 billion on the market? Is it because it's not in the mind of the Center Party, or is it because there's no winnings that can be re-used for better services?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e258	It's sad that the Right is so concerned about looking back instead of looking forward to the big challenges that lie there. I'm sorry for Peter Skovholt Gitmark, because he's new at Stortinget, but I don't apologize to other Right-Representatives who make the Central Party's municipal arrangements in 1998 and 1999 as wrong as the Skovholt Gitmark does. In fact, we have to consider the relationship between the income in the local government sector and the expenditure we had then, and the gap that is now. He can study his technical calculation numbers, and he'll see better. What are we in the Center Party occupied with? We're actually concerned that people with disabilities are going to get a school offer, that many other weak groups in the municipalities are not going to get cut in supply. We listen to experiences that are now being expressed, among other things. from the OECD, that privatisation is out, that it means inefficiency, red tape and expensive cost solutions in many of the cases where competitive exposure has been implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e267	I understand very well that Meltveit Kleppa comes a little on the defensive when she is challenged by previous adjustments of municipal economy, etc. But there is respect for the Center Party. They insist that the more money you deposit into the municipal sector, the better it gets. They're stuck on it, no matter how much money you put in. As the representative of Skovholt Gitmark was in the room, there is over NOK 6 billion of nominal increase for the municipal sector next year. Still, that's not enough. In addition, the Centre Party and SV shall promote the following proposals: ‘The government asks the Government to promote a municipality scheme for 2005 based on a net operating surplus of 3 pst.’ My questions are: What are the sums involved? The criteria and parameters to which the Central Party relates, the local government sector of which shall have an operating result of 3 pst.? Is this true of all the municipalities, including those that are far above that result today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e277	I must strongly distance myself from the expression 'putting in'. It's not about making money into the local government sector. This is what the Centre Party is talking about, is that there should be consistency between the tasks that the municipalities have and the resources that they have at their disposal. The spokesmen of the Central Party have gone all over the country to the point of improving efficiency as far as it can. 80 pst of the spokesmen in the municipalities, regardless of the colour of the lot, reports that there is no more effective. What we're going to be left with is a good school, a good childcare facility, a worthy care and opportunity for cultural action, something that the Progress Party just doesn't want, and my dilemma is, why in all the world we wouldn't be able to have an operating result of 3 pst. No, when we could in times when Norway was much poorer than it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e282	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e286	Many of the issues that have been at the forefront of the year’s budgetary procedure are within the remit of the Municipal Committee. For the Workers' Party, it was imperative that the government parties withdraw the proposal for increased use of temporary employment. This proposal forms part of a series of proposals from the Government which are gradually taking care to change the Norwegian labour market. In many countries, the discussion is ongoing where the right-hand side – in Norway, represented by the Right and the Progressive Party – will see the labour market function more like other markets, with the freer purchase and sale of services, while the parties at the centre and on the left-hand side believe that authorities and trade unions must have instruments to safeguard workers’ rights. The difference is clearer when we compare the labour market and the social system in Norway and the other Nordic countries with the system in the United States. Both Norway and the United States have low unemployment and high employment, and both countries have high average wage levels and high average productivity. We find the difference behind the averages, in the distribution of the level of income between different groups. We react reasonably when the top managers of the largest companies in Norway make ten times as much as the average income. But the top executives of the largest corporations in the United States earn 200 times as much as the average income. On the other hand, the lowest wage in the United States only earns about half of the level of the lowest wage in Norway, with a statutory minimum wage of approximately DKK 90 000. The pay of the lowest wages in the United States is not big enough to prevent poverty. You can have a full job and still be poor. The poverty problem in the United States is therefore four–five times greater than that in Norway. And poverty commits crime. There are about 15 times more in US prisons than in Norwegian when we correct for different peoples. Why am I pointing this out? Indeed, because the difference in employee rights is a crucial explanation of the difference in the two systems. Our protection against dismissal means that employees cannot be treated arbitrarily and unfairly by employers. Our overtime legislation has set limits to preventing unfair pressure from employers. But this government has made it easier for employers to push employees to work overtime. So this government is going to weaken the protection against dismissal. This would gradually lead to an Americanisation — or brutalisation — of Norwegian working life. Opening up temporary employment, enterprises can reduce the number of permanent employees to a minimum and meet the needs of temporary employees. In Norway, about 90 pst. by permanent staff. This does not mean that they cannot be cancelled, but employers must have a factual reason to cancel them. So what is the situation of a temporary employee? Yes, if you are afraid of not being able to extend your employment, you are, of course, weaker than the employer. It'll be easier to take advantage of. You've got to put a cap in your hand. You will be offered training to regular employees to a lesser extent. It's more difficult to earn a basis for sick pay, maternity leave and daily allowances, and of course you have less financial security. You don't know what you earn when your employment ends. You don't get a loan, because you don't have a safe income, and you have a harder time buying a dwelling and otherwise establishing yourself. The Labour Party does not want Norway to develop in this way. That's why we said no. That is why the budgetary conciliation was important. We will be watching over the Nordic welfare model. Another important feature of the Norwegian and Nordic models is an active public policy to ensure work for all. Here, too, we see clear political differences. Over 17 000 jobs were closed in Norwegian industry in one year. Unemployment has increased by almost 50 pst. since the government change. While business is screaming for a more offensive business policy, the Minister of Industry says that his toolbox is empty. Why in the world are you in a government if you don't think you can or will not do anything? The Labour Party wants offensive policies to create new jobs. We will strengthen research and development efforts. We want a long-term commitment to develop key industries that have great opportunities, but are now struggling. We therefore proposed spending more than DKK 2 billion more than the Government of an active policy to create and secure jobs. But we also want offensive policies to get those who are unemployed into permanent employment. Last time Norway had a high unemployment rate, the Labour Party introduced measures to provide almost every other unemployed person with active labour market measures. Now only one out of ten unemployed people get such an offer. This is why the Workers' Party has proposed the creation of 12,000 more action sites. Work for all is the main objective of the Workers' Party's economic policy. That is why we said no to the Government's inaction, no to the low appropriations for food measures, no to the low level of labour market measures, and we said no to the Government's proposal to tighten up the possibilities of laying off workers in the absence of a job. That is why budgetary conciliation was also important. Several thousands more will now be able to secure work or action space. A third important feature of the Nordic model is that we use the public sector to ensure an equivalent offer of basic welfare services to all. Therefore, the public sector is more than a budget figure and a percentage. It's about social and political values. Therefore, the Nordic countries have a large public sector, the United States a small one. Here, too, we see clear differences between the right-hand side and the left-hand side of Norwegian policy. The majority of public welfare services are provided through municipalities. However, the condition for municipalities to be able to fulfil this task is that they have financial capacity to do so. It is therefore very serious when the total deficit in the municipalities last year amounted to almost 13 billion kroner. 107 municipalities are placed under public supervision. Of course, all parts of the public sector must constantly ask how best to use the money, how to get the most well-being out of the resources deployed. Those of us who are most concerned with the importance of the public sector as a tool for fair distribution in society must therefore also be those who are most concerned with an ever-renewal to meet new challenges and opportunities. The renewal of Community solutions and the further development of the welfare state are two sides of the same coin. However, the situation in the municipal sector cannot be called conversion. In large parts of Kommune-Norway it must be called a crisis. Or as the Right-Rapporteur, Arve Toning in Ålesund, said to the Minister for Municipalities: ‘You use us in party speeches as a shining example of how to do it, and we have used your recipe, Erna. Nevertheless, it is due west.’» Therefore, the Labour Party believes that it is absolutely necessary to strengthen the economy of the local government sector. But as Christian People's Party rapporteur Karl Edvard Aksnes in Gjesdal said when the budget was presented: "After what Mr. Bondevik and Mr. Valgerd said in the election campaign, I had hoped for a strong lift. This is not exactly something to clapp to." Or as the Christian People's Party County Rapporteur in Hordaland said: ‘The budget is a disaster for the county.’ The Labour Party believes that there is a need to strengthen the local government economy by DKK 3 billion in addition to the government's proposals. And we believe there is a need for a dialogue between the state and the municipalities on a plan to correct the imbalances in the local economy. That is why budgetary conciliation was also important. I note that Mr Højres, rapporteur at Svelvik, says: ‘For us, the increased transfer means SFO and kindergartens are being rescued. It's very joyful." And that's how we hear from many municipalities, including from the government party's own local politicians. And perhaps the rapporteur meets Roy Waage in Skjervøy the nail on his head when he says, ‘The proposal of the Labour Party follows up what the grassroots in the Christian People’s Party has asked for.’ The Labour Party does not believe that NOK 2 billion more for municipalities is enough to solve the challenges. That's why we proposed NOK 3 billion and a stepping-up plan. The working party does not believe that 6,000 more action places are enough. That's why we proposed 12,000 places. The Labour Party does not believe that the increase in efforts to create more jobs is enough. That is why we proposed far more offensive measures than what we were given a majority in the budget agreement. But we have moved the budget in a clearly better direction. We make everyday life easier and better for many, and we have stopped the worst right hand turn that was in the budget. Then everyone, and not least in the Christian People's Party, will have to ask what you want in the future, whether you want an Americanization of work and a weakened public sector according to the right model, or whether you want an inclusive working life and an active public sector according to the working party model. It's really a question of values. I address the suggestions in the setting promoted by the Workers' Party alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e352	The representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt- Pedersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e357	The Workers' Party, in its general remarks, states that there is a great need for change and development work in municipalities and county municipalities, and further states that the aim of the renewal work must be to use less resources in administration and more in services and welfare in order to give citizens a safer and simpler everyday life. The party also states that competitive outsourcing in some areas must be halted until the consequences have been evaluated. First, what are you going to evaluate when you're not even willing to try on a principle basis? And secondly, we have a number of very successful private entries in municipal service production here in the country that clearly show that this is a very good and stimulating supplement to pure municipal production. In addition, user satisfaction is very high. What's wrong with trying? Employees of private companies are also residents of a municipality, and they pay even taxes. The job they do cannot be worth anything less than the job a municipal employee does.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e364	On the right, there is a tendency to set similarities between renewal and privatisation. Of course, that's not right. The Workers' Party, together with the SV and the Centre Party, at the latest, proposed to strengthen the incentive for conversion and renewal work in the municipalities according to the pattern as, among other things, have been carried out in municipalities such as Steinkjer, Porsgrund and Sørum. I find that the Right voted against facilitating such conversion work in collaboration with the employees of the municipality, a conversion work that would give very positive results both for the users, for the municipality as such and for the employees. On the other hand, I have to say that certain experiments have been carried out to provide care services in response to tenders which have shown that these measures have not been well prepared and that they have had some very serious consequences. Therefore, the Workers' Party has stated clearly that we want to stop this type of experiment until the effects have been evaluated both against the users and against the employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e375	There is no subsidiary reality, has gradually become the views of the Labour Party on budgetary settlements. This time, the Workers' Party itself has entered into a historic budgetary settlement with the Archival Right and is thus voting subsidiaryly. This budgetary agreement provides for a VAT compensation scheme which is primarily designed to facilitate the improvement of the competitive distribution of municipal service production. In the past, the Workers' Party has been strongly opposed to competition, but now they will vote in favour of the VAT compensation system, albeit in a subsidiary way. However, since, according to the Labour Party, there is no subsidiary reality, this can be interpreted as meaning that the Workers' Party is now more positive in putting municipal activities into competition – since they are now voting in favour of the VAT compensation scheme. Then we can expect the Workers' Party to now slow down a little as regards countering the competitive outsourcing of municipal tasks, since they are therefore voting for the subsidiary reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e384	The views of the Labour Party on the various issues in the budget are reflected in the Alternative Budget of the Workers' Party. Then we have found that, unfortunately, the alternative budget does not get a majority in the Storting. And then we're facing the question of whether we're able to move the government parties' proposals so much that we find it proper to vote subsidiaryly for it, or whether we don't. I am happy to, among other things, The chairperson of the Committee stressed that it was possible to move the proposals of the government parties in a positive direction. It means a lot to the municipalities, it means a lot to the unemployed, and that means a lot, among other things. for hospitals. That is why we have found it appropriate to vote subsidiaryly for the changed arrangements of the government parties, after our own arrangement has not been given a majority. This does not mean that we agree with the VAT reform, but as a result of the budgetary agreement, we are voting in favour of a whole which also includes it. But we disagree with it, we believe it is too poorly prepared, and we also believe that it has very unclear distribution effects that should have been clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e396	On 3 June 2002, the Workers' Party was to demonstrate that they were still a party with housing policy. They therefore submitted a comprehensive proposal to do something to provide housing for young people and other people with difficulties in the housing market. But in the budget that we are dealing with today, there is nothing left of these promises. One thing is that the party in negotiations with the Right was unable to obtain more money for rental housing for young people and other disadvantaged people, something quite different is that the Workers' Party has not added a single extra crown to build more homes for refugees and others who need it. There's one thing I've learned about the Workers' Party during the years I've been sitting here, and that's that the Workers' Party is a party that's big in words and puzzles in action. I expect that the Workers' Party will now leave it to criticise the housing policy of the Government of the year that comes, as the Workers' Party does not have one penny more than what the Government has for this purpose. I would like to ask: where did the promises made in the Workers' Party's programme in connection with this municipal elections mean that more housing should be provided for young and disadvantaged people?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e407	I find it relatively alarming if the representative Holmås has not registered that he has been involved in handling a comprehensive document in which the Workers' Party has promoted all of the proposals in the Workers' Party's Housing Committee's suspension. This proposal has been promoted for discussion in Stortinget. Unfortunately, a majority in Stortinget has rejected it. So we didn't get in touch with that. I am pleased that the SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre have agreed on these proposals to a very large extent. We have presented here an offensive measure for a better and more forward-looking housing policy, but it has not received a majority. Then, in its alternative budget, the Labour Party has also addressed several housing policy issues, including: that the income limit for housing aid should be maintained, as it has been possible to implement it, inter alia. on the initiative of the Housing Committee of the Workers Party. And we have, among other things, proposed increased lending arrangements in the Husbank. In fact, the budgetary agreement has been implemented for the last time. This is one of the areas where we have not got through everything we would like, but I can assure the representative Holmås that we stand equally strongly on the proposals that came from the sample, and that we will equally strongly criticise the government's housing policy in the coming year. We will probably also have the opportunity to process it in a separate message.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e416	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e419	From the Right, we are very pleased that the Government is pursuing a policy that strengthens local democracy and increases municipal freedom of action. This means that citizens will experience that they are close to and have the opportunity to influence decisions taken in the community. This means that citizens should experience the provision of equivalent services of good quality and with good availability adapted to individual and local needs, irrespective of where they live. This means that the organisation of service production should ensure the best possible services at the lowest possible cost, irrespective of local boundaries and boundaries between different levels of administration. We in the Right are also pleased that the Government, within tight budget limits, has prioritised increased transfers to the municipalities. Following the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party, these transfers have been further increased. Growth is at historical DKK 6.685 billion from 2003 to 2004. This is a growth of the entire 6.1 pst. The municipality of Norway thus receives almost NOK 1500 more per person. builds up next year. I understand that many municipalities still experience the economic situation as difficult. This situation has grown over a long time, and I will repeat that this situation is caused by a number of relationships over several years. I am pleased to mention here a number of detailed and underfunded reforms, increased pension costs and expensive wage settlements. In this context, I would also like to stress that very many municipalities and county councils have taken responsibility for meeting increased expenditure needs with the necessary conversion and efficiency measures to release resources for services to their citizens. It is essential to continue to have a significant impact on the conversion and modernisation of public administration and service production. This is particularly important to emphasise in a situation where the financial framework for many municipalities and counties in 2004 may appear somewhat more liberal than initially assumed. In addition to the fact that the municipal sector receives more than SEK 6.6 billion to travel with next year, it is also positive that municipalities and county councils benefit from interest rebates over the last period of a total of 4.5 percentage points. With a net debt of between SEK 70 and 80 billion, the long-term effect of lower interest rates will be close to DKK 3.5 billion on an annual basis, although long-term interest rate fixing will make the short-term gain a little less. This illustrates very well the importance of pursuing a tight economic policy that can still help to keep interest rates at a low level. This, together with other measures, will continue to have a positive impact on the framework conditions of municipalities, so that the many tasks of the municipal sector are responsible for can have a sound scale and a safe quality. The municipal sector has the primary responsibility for the most important welfare services in this country. These services are financed through tax revenues, framework grants, earmarked grants and user payments. On the right, we are very positive that the Government considers that framework financing through tax revenue and framework grants should be the main principle for financing the local government sector. In this respect, it may be worth mentioning that the Government’s proposals for the government budget increased the share of tax revenue in total income of municipalities, in line with wishes from the local government sector itself. Greater framework funding for the municipal sector must be supported by continued efforts for less detailed State legislation and governance. Framework management provides good conditions for achieving national targets, an equivalent distribution of services across different parts of the country and national economic governance of the local government sector. The right is also pleased that the Government is following up plans for the inclusion of earmarked grants in the income system for 2004. The next really big step will be taken here in 2006, when the funds for kindergartens are included, as required by the agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party. Another important prerequisite for continued good progress in this work is that the distribution mechanisms of the income system are as reliable as possible in relation to the challenges of the local government sector. The right is satisfied that the Government has appointed a sample to carry out a professional review of the income system, both income and expenditure balancing. Furthermore, the Government has already followed up the Storting decision to promote a case of changes to the social services cost key in parallel with the 2004 State budget. In addition, the model proposed to cover the costs of resource-intensive users in municipalities will release funds in municipalities. A note from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre claimed that the Government has a one-sided focus on competitive outsourcing and privatisation as a tool for improving the efficiency of the municipal sector. I take a strong distance from such a simplification of this discussion, especially when we think of some parties having an almost dogmatic relationship with their resistance to even trying such instruments in the modernisation of municipal activities. In this context, it is important to stress the great responsibility that we all have to make the best use of public resources for the benefit of our citizens. It must then be an objective to ensure the best possible services at the lowest possible cost, irrespective of local and administrative boundaries. I have great faith in a policy that is constantly increasing the municipal space for action in order to make the priority according to local needs and desires. Therefore, the individual needs to focus on the individual. The public sector is for citizens and needs to be adapted to their needs. That's why I want to further increase the local space for action. It is local authorities themselves who, in dialogue with users, the municipality’s own inhabitants, know best how the service provision should be designed. I am very positive that municipalities assess competition exposure, including in the core areas, in order to stimulate quality, efficiency and not least innovation. Opportunity is not an end in itself, but it is one of several instruments to provide good and flexible municipal services. It also stimulates inter-municipal cooperation and contributes to the empowerment of the municipality’s own organisation to meet the expectations and demands of its citizens. It may be worth stressing that individual local authorities themselves have to decide which means the municipality can and should use, and that the user perspective has to weigh heavily on all services, regardless of how it is chosen to organise the services. With effect from 1 January 2004, the system of neutral VAT in the municipal sector will help to stimulate increased local freedom of action on these issues. I am pleased that we have a budgetary settlement between the government parties and the Labour Party which ensures a majority of the present draft state budget. For the local government sector, the reconciliation means a further increase in access to resources. As already mentioned, the increase at a historical level, where the growth from this year to next year totals more than NOK 6.6 billion. In addition, we have an agreement between the government parties and the Labour Party in the municipal committee which also ensures this commitment, while at the same time increasing the allocation of 6 million industrial incubators by a smaller re-priority. kr. It is with pleasure that I recommend that the Stortinget adopt the position of the Municipal Committee on appropriations for the 2004 State Budget in Framework Areas 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e447	And it's the President's pleasure to announce the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e451	I noticed the joyous outbreak of the former Tønsberg rapporteur, and I note that many of the Right-wing rapporteurs around the country have expressed a very strong satisfaction at the fact that the local economy is now considerably stronger than what followed the Government's arrangement. Many of these have also strongly criticised the Government for running a scheme with such a tight community economy that it has been necessary to cut down on offers that, based on local estimates, have seen it as very important to continue. My natural question then is to the representative of Hogsnes: if you want to follow the reasoning of the municipal minister, it has to be that when these municipalities, which are also right-wing, don't get the financial resources to go to, they have poor financial management. Or is it that there has actually been too tight a framework for the local government sector? In other words, is it that in the right-wing municipalities where the right-wing rapporteurs have complained about the economy, it has been due to poor governance, or has it been due to poor finances?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e458	I think it's a truth that everyone likes more money. I don't think anyone will say that they'll ever get enough money to solve all the problems they would like to solve. I know from my own municipality that politicians from most parties are pleased that to next year there is a growth of more than 64 million. kr in relation to this year. We're happy about that, and it's better for them to be able to do the problems. So there is no simple fasititude about whether this is bad control or just tight condition. There may often be a combination, but very great opportunities lie in the municipality's own management and priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e465	It might be interesting to comment on the debate between the budgetary partners, but I will refrain from it now. I registered that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen in his statement pointed out very strongly that the Workers' Party has now been involved in the conciliation, which had turned the worst of its right-wing policy in Norway. It would be interesting to hear whether the representative of Hogsnes shares that view – whether it is so that the Right in Government conducts a policy that satisfies the Labour Party or the Left in Norwegian policy, and whether what Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen pointed out in his statement is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e472	I do not believe that the budgetary agreement represents a serious deterioration in the profile of the government in the budget. For the Right, we can live with the fact that there will be a little bit more resources for the municipalities, and that there will be a little bit more resources for the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e477	Fair distribution of resources and opportunities has never been the strength of the Right. We can look at some of the residents and some of the users that the municipalities have, that Hogsnes was in. Among them, 20,000 more people with disabilities this year than last year do not have a job. The government and the Right are strongly opposed to knowing something about this by getting it mapped, so that the Storting knows it. Nor will they have clear targets for how the public sector should contribute to recruiting people with disabilities and immigrants, so that we know that they get a job. There is little money both for Aetat and in the municipalities, and it is only the agreement that has given the local economy and the investment in Aetat the skin of propriety that makes you think that there will not be even more unemployed people with disabilities until next year. I want to ask the representative Hogsnes from the Right: how many more disabled do you think Hogsnes will get a job next year with the government's initial investment?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e486	I think we could have a long discussion about what's really fair. In any case, I have a good conscience on behalf of the Right for the profile contained in this budget. I don't think it will ever be possible here in the country to get enough money for SV's many good purposes, but we have the principle at the bottom that the resources must be created before we use them. I think this budget has a good profile that will enable more disabled people to get to work next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e498	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e501	The debate on the local economy is coming over and over again. You might say that the wings are similar, although the Progress Party has realized over the last two years that when we do not get a system change in relation to the income system vis-à-vis the municipalities, we also have to innovate that in order for the municipalities to be able to carry out their tasks satisfactorily to the users, we have to add fresh funds. The Progress Party has often made proposals for major changes to the income system. I'm not going to say so much about it now, but I think that in the long run, the system of the Progress Party will force itself through, regardless of whether the political blocks today are the same as they are. If the users are going to get a satisfactory offer, I actually think it's also the users who are going to force it through, because that's not good enough as it is. It is a little surprising that the debate goes on year after year that the problem for the municipal sector is that there are too few transfers, when we know that it can be arranged through a funding system where the money is more closely followed by users. It is likely that users will be more satisfied, and there will be less reason for local politicians and municipalities to complain about their need. I know that there are several people working with alternative schemes, also in the direction of what the Progress Party has as its primary arrangement. I think it was the representative of Meltveit Kleppa who mentioned this uproar from 138 municipalities. It is clear that it could have been interesting to go through all of these municipalities' accounts and budgets. It might also have been interesting to go through the political constellations of these 138 municipalities, to see whether it has been the political constellations, or whether it has been the priorities of each municipality that have made them have a bad economy, or whether it is the state transfers that are actually the reason they are struggling with their economy. I have made myself a little unake during the fall. I have gone through a number of local newspapers that have had a look up on local economy. Then it is a bit interesting to note that it is not local the big complaint comes. It is the national press and politicians on the left who are very capable of – let me say this – black-painting the situation of Kommune-Norge. It is interesting to read – just to take a few examples – that politicians in a small municipality who have had severe economic problems and who are actually centralized, could last night cost themselves relatively high butterbread after turning municipal hunger and need for a nice surplus. After a little change, a little outsourcing, a little inter-municipal cooperation, a useful reduction in administrative costs, they've made it clear. It is also interesting to look at another municipality that is centralized, where the councillor has presented an exciting draft budget in 2004. It only states whether this municipality has one problem in relation to the economy, namely whether to build an annex to the school or whether to build an artificial lawn. It is also interesting to see that four small municipalities in Namdalen, another area that the Central Party and several of them have now spoken about, are going to have North Norway premises in relation to the municipal sector, facing huge investment plans. A total of 11,000 people live in these municipalities. That's where they're going to invest 100 million. kr. Why are they facing the investment plans? Yes, because they see the light. Everything is going so much better in the municipalities now. After they have rationalised, streamlined, relocated, entered into extensive cooperation across the municipal borders, they have done so. What I'm trying to say is that I think the political parties on the left also have a responsibility to create a positive attitude to what's happening in the municipal sector. It's not right that everything is just sad and gray in the municipal sector. I myself come from a municipality of 17,500 people, who had severe problems early in the 1990s and mid-1990s, of course, because they had fallen at an excessive level of activity compared to their incomes. Within two years, this municipality removed almost 80 years' work. So we ask ourselves the question: So the users of this municipality have any difference? Did they notice any difference in the service? No, no, no. And then it's a little wrong when the rapporteur goes out afterwards and says, look how good we have been, we've managed to rationalize 80 years ago! What this rapporteur should have said was: unfortunately, this municipality has had an excessive level of activity. In fact, we have had 80 years' work too much compared to what has been needed to meet the needs of the users. So this municipality had an accumulated deficit of 40 million. kr. It must be possible to talk about the municipal sector also in positive notes. I will also be allowed to challenge the Council of State in relation to the four municipalities that report errors in relation to the mentally retarded, that the Council of State really takes on board the fact that this is a majority comment, that it really is a wish of the Committee to do something here. I would also like to pay some attention to some of the proposals of the Progress Party. First of all, there is the question of proposal No. 22, where the Progress Party asks the Government to establish a politically independent body to assess the social losses in the absence of integration in Norway. I think it will be a good move in terms of finding the challenges we are facing now, when there is a cohesive increase that has invested great resources in strengthening the integration process. Then it might have been interesting to see where we are going to put the measures in order to get the best possible result. Other countries around us with which it is natural to compare have done so, and have also found material on which to build further on when to strengthen integration policy. It is not the case that the Progress Party here wants some immigrant accounts. Here it's simply a desire to get on the table what we've done wrong, and what we're going to do to fix it. I would also like to draw attention to proposal No. Thirty-two. This is where the progress point got 500 million in place. kr. in the House Bank. We know that there are many, many municipalities that have their own plans to establish rehabilitation sites or hospitals in the south. We're very pleased that we got it in place. However, it turns out later that it is very difficult for those who want to get part of these funds, because there are some poor guidelines with regard to the House Bank and how the funds are to be paid. Here we simply ask that the Council of State and the Government give guidance to the House Bank in clearer words on how this money should be used. Proposal No. 31: ‘The Government is asking the Government to set up a rapid selection to take the balances in the field of asylum. The selection may be recruited from the unemployed with the relevant competence.’ I think it is a little sad that the Storting cannot participate in such a proposal. I think it is sad that all parties outside the Progress Party accept that there are now more than 17 000 people in asylum receptions around the country. Children and women sit month after month, year after year, without knowing what the future will bring to them. At the same time, we know that we have unemployed people who are highly skilled in this field, who could have quickly put themselves together in a fast-working sample to reduce the number of people in reception today. We record that the government has to establish more and more receptions, because it doesn't seem to be less and less need, because we don't manage to take away the remains. The picture that's drawing now is that the situation is actually going to get worse in 2004, too, because we're not going to be able to get away. I know that the Council of State will say in its statement: ioda, now we're going to introduce 48 hours of treatment, and obviously groundless applicants will then be rejected immediately. And they don't sit in reception for six months, for one year, for two years. There are completely different types of asylum seekers who sit for a long time. That is why it is sad that the Progress Party had to stand alone on that proposal. I would like to end by saying that the Workers' Party, through its settlement, should be commended for – and I have also said on a previous occasion – that they put in place the 1.5 billion for which the Advance Party was given a majority in the context of the Municipal Proposition, which was missing from the Government's budget. But from there to say that the Workers' Party has now in a way helped to save the country's future through a subsidiary position in relation to this budget, is to go well far. I have a certain suspicion that the 1.5 billion who were missing in the government's budget presentation were actually lacking for tactical reasons in relation to the negotiations in the Stortinget. It shouldn't surprise me. But we have to accept that the government is also allowed to run its tactical game that way. What we're going to be happy about is that it's come into place. At the end of the day, I am promoting all the proposals that the Progress Party is behind and to which we are co-sponsors. I will also signal the same procedure as last year, we will vote against V.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e547	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e552	The Progress Party's alternative budget provides for a cut of DKK 1.8 billion in the framework of the municipalities. in 2004, further cuts shall be made in the North Norway bill, in the regional bill, in the beauty bill and in the transfers to the county municipalities – not unnaturally from that party. The representative Sandberg has often been high on the track and promised more money to the local government sector, even if it could not sound like that, at least not at the beginning of his article today. What do you want to believe? Is it the Progress Party's alternative budget or is it the representative of Sandberg who is credible? So a little bit about postponing competition and privatization. It was read in the Evening Post on November 24: ‘I think we should put a line over all the privatisation debate in our party. We do not have a principle that we should privatize the whole world, said Sandberg in his speech at the Fr.p. Conference of Rapporteurs yesterday.' My question is, is this a new political line from the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e569	I have tried on several occasions to draw the attention of the representative Uppøen Hansen to our system regarding the financing of the municipal sector. The representative then knows that we want a government funding system for the primary tasks based on user choice, paid by the local social security office – hence also cut transfers to the municipal sector. If Upebøen Hansen compares our alternative budget for 2004 with the budget for 2003, he will see that we actually cut SEK 1.5 billion less in 2004 than we did in 2003 – just to follow up the 1.5 billion that we had proposed and got a majority in relation to the municipal bill. When it comes to privatisation, that's right. Every time we have a debate with the Workers' Party, the Municipal Association or others about competitive outsourcing, we are accused of wanting to privatize. What our policy is based on is the element of competition, and then it is immaterial for the Progress Party whether it is an organisation, private or local authorities that are competing for the offer to be made. Therefore, privatisation is not a principle for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e578	The paradox in the policy of the Progress Party is that they will use more oil for absolutely all good purposes, with the exception of the municipal sector. Now the statistics confirm that the government's economic policy is working. The arrows no longer go down, the optimism has returned to business, and the municipalities in this budget have had a historic growth in free resources. Important service areas have been strengthened. But the Progress Party still says that this is not good enough, that our system is not good enough. The money must follow the user, says Sandberg. But that can also be done within the system we have today. Can Per Sandberg agree that user choice is possible within the generalist community system we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e587	Every time this government expresses itself for the tight economy, the paradox is that the government already spends 70 billion dollars of oil money this year. $70 billion! The government says it doesn't. But when the Progress Party in its 2004 alternative budget proposes to spend $5 billion in addition to the 70 billion spent by the Government, the disaster is complete. It's paradoxical. So that the money should follow the users. No, I actually don't think the system we have today will work if you want to have a similar service offer around the whole country. If you are to have user choices only within the generalist community scheme, you will still find that there will be a big difference in the priorities of individual municipalities as to what kind of service you will receive. We are concerned that the provision of services in health care, care for the elderly and the school should be the same, regardless of the municipality where you live in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e596	I've been in some debates lately with Per Sandberg. He has expressed himself in newspapers and radio about the EEA enlargement and foreigners coming to Norway to work, whether they come to provide services or to work. What I understand is that Per Sandberg is to shut out Poles by using transitional arrangements over the next five years, but those who come to Norway can work for significantly lower wages than is usual in Norway – down to 50 kroner an hour. It is then that serious Norwegian companies in the yard industry and the construction industry who pay their people their Norwegian salaries will lose in competition with other companies that employ people with lower wages. So my question is, is it that Norwegian workers have to pay off to keep their jobs in the progressive party society in the coming years? Or is it that the Progress Party will strengthen the regulatory framework, so that those working in Norway will have Norwegian wage and working conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e605	No, the EEA extension will actually lead to that we can't shut anyone out. That is why the Progress Party wants transitional arrangements, in order to prepare us for what might happen. We don't know what's going on. All we can be sure is that we don't know what's going on. But what we know is that Norway has a very attractive welfare system, with very attractive support schemes. And in that context, the Progress Party wants transitional arrangements to prepare us for that kind of thing. No, I don't think there will be any lower wages. But I don't think we'll get any higher pay in the future either. I think that the Norwegian labour market only needs to realise that when we get this expansion, the pressure on the individual workplace and the individual enterprise will be so strong in relation to competition that they have to bring down the cost level. This does not mean that we should cut wages, even though the Progress Party also has solutions to it, because we believe that tax relief will lead to a reduction in the requirement for higher wages.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e612	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e615	First, I would like to include the suggestions in the setting on which SV is included and which have not yet been promoted. The SV’s budget for 2004 is primarily a main effort to link more available hands with unresolved tasks. In addition, our budget line is a commitment to the things that are most important for Norway to become a safe and good country to live for years to come, i.e. what is most important for the future. SV will smooth out differences and eliminate poverty. That's why you have to set up all the policies on it, and not make it into something to repair afterwards. Poverty is unacceptable. It makes society bad to live in for everyone. It requires far more political governance and much more responsibility for the results in practice than this government takes. Poor children, worn-out schools and many people without work have nothing to do with a modern welfare state. SV has a modern vision that is about putting the most important thing first, and that it is going to be like this in practice as you have said. So when the map doesn't match the terrain, it's the map you have to adjust, not the other way around. In Norway today, we have a municipal sector that disposes of a great deal of society's resources. But it is that the private consumption to next year increases seven times more than public consumption, and it tells us that the default gap increases between what public welfare can do, and what the private wealth can give to the individual person who is so lucky to have pulled that weight in life. We see this very horrifying in many municipalities, not because everything is bad and miserable there, but because the help to those who have the most difficulty gets too bad, and because for example. One of the most important future initiatives we could have, namely, to invest in education and school, is missing. Competence and knowledge are the most important strategy for securing the Norwegian economy in the future. So that's why we want a modern school, and not a school like this that I attended in the 1960s. Then there were big classes, everyone learned everything at the same time, and no one had adapted training. There was no school for this millennium. If we cut construction and not provide training in modern computer technology, we give the students a message that school and education are not important. For SV, this is important. As it is now, the public school becomes less relevant to very many parents, because it is not good enough. And that doesn't take this government seriously. Today's newspapers report something that should be, but not, a matter of course. We are about to see a digital gap between poor students and students who can afford computer equipment at home and who can afford to take computer lessons alongside school, because there is no modern computer technology in school. Data instruction may only exist in one room and is not connected to all instruction. It has nothing to do with modern education to do that. And guess who's losing. It's actually not just the poor students, but it's Norway. Norway is losing, for there are many abilities and resources that are not being exploited. These children and young people are much more important in terms of our future security, than more oil drilling in the north – in Lofoten and in the Barents Sea. This government has now set a Norway record in terms of poor municipal economy and the number of municipalities under state administration. It doesn't much remind you of municipal freedom, which they talk a lot about. There's a lot of old sins here, but it's gotten a lot worse lately. The local economy of SV will help to get more of the available hands in place. It's an important goal in itself. With SV's municipal plans, we will complete the kindergarten reform. The community approach of the SV will make a significant contribution to eradicating poverty and to taking a particular responsibility for eradicating child poverty. There have been 30,000 more children this year than last year who have parents who are unemployed, and a lot of them get very bad advice. We need a bet to make having little money less hurt and difficult. Then it's again the school that's important. The school must be so good that it can compensate for the differences in the private economy. It is important that municipalities can afford to give citizens a good cultural offer and have a leisure opportunity that means that every time you have a wallet you don't have to give it up, or you don't have to be outside every single time something happens. It doesn't create good childhood, and it doesn't create a climate that gives all young people the same opportunities. SV's municipal structure will provide basic school with the necessary resources. The SV community facilities will also provide the capacity and quality of care and care for those who need it. There must also be good working conditions for those who work there, so that they do not wear off their health. One of today's newspapers said about working in the health and care sector that it looks like there's a sector that's designed for a single, well-trained weightlifter with enormous capacity. And if I can be allowed to add: Probably you also have to have the ability to shut out concerns for those who have not received enough help and care when you go home. So here, thousands of underpaid ladies are going to wear off their health so that old people get a minimum of care and care, because the government thinks it's more important with tax relief for those who have a lot of money. In addition to that, I hear that they are being blamed for expensive paychecks. Sorry, if we're going to recruit people to these sectors in the future, there's two things that have to be in place. It has to be a salary that's worth living on, and a pension it's worth living on when you get old, and a work life that's such that you don't get sick of working there. It is important for SV to ensure full accessibility for disabled persons and to apply the universal design principle. There is a long way to go in Norwegian municipalities and in Norwegian society in general — not least in working life. SV will also have a scheme for local economy that helps us to settle the refugees we have taken responsibility for. It is about investing in housing policy, but it is also about local economy. SV wants an offensive commitment to public transport. It's a prerequisite for a modern society. Public transport is below county budgets, but the majority of the Stortinget and Government will still not know about volume, capacity, price and availability. We're not going to know about that! It's a little difficult to see if there's enough funding to achieve the goals. SV is also committed to ensuring county municipalities as a regional development operator. In the event of the cancellation of the differentiated employer fee, it is incredibly important that the funds put in place there become large enough. Thus, when compensating for one krone that went directly to the enterprise, with indirect instruments, there is a need to invest substantially more money in the things that you are allowed to do, namely research, development, education, skills building, business refresher training, transport solutions and ICT solutions. All these things are allowed to be done by sea, on their own, but there will be indirect instruments that will take longer before businesses notice. That's why we have to do this in greater volume than what we're doing today. SV also wants a scheme in which municipalities can afford and take responsibility for environmental policy. SV wants a scheme in which municipalities can participate in a housing effort for young and disadvantaged people. More than half of those who are out of mental health protection today do not have suitable housing. Almost none of those who come out of prison have. And this is called post-protection! These are some of the biggest shortcomings we see in the Norwegian welfare state today. It's also how the whole community loses on it. It's going to be more outnumbered, people don't get healthy, and they don't get out of a criminal racetrack if they don't have a roof over their heads. At the end of the day, equity increases. That's an unsocial way of charging taxes. SV deeply disagrees with the fact that excesses will increase. In our arrangement, all the self-esteem applications have been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e649	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e654	This autumn, the Workers' Party has been able to turn the policy to the left. It's actually the first time that the Bondevik II government does it. It is due to the budgetary agreement concluded by the Workers' Party with the Government. This has produced results. Of course, we are not satisfied with everything, for example. we are not satisfied with the fact that we did not get a pass through to increase the income limit for families with children in order to receive housing support. We'll get back to that. But we're satisfied in some areas. The municipalities of Hedmark include: received 77 million. kr more as a result of the agreement. It provides a better school for the children, it provides better care for the elderly, and it provides cheaper school-time arrangements. But SV writes in his comments that this is ‘declared’. Then I have a question to the representative Andersen: What concrete results can SV refer to this autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e661	I think the Workers' Party should be quite satisfied with the way SV has described the budgetary agreement with the Government. They've kicked a little bit on a Right Budget that was very unsocial. We have commended the Workers' Party for ensuring a slightly better local economy, and also for ensuring better measures for the unemployed. There are many things in this budget that we were very surprised that the Workers' Party would be involved. Many of the structural measures concern, inter alia: competitive outsourcing and privatisation in the municipal sector and a number of other things. In the case of self-employment, it's very unsocial, over half a billion in tax increases to people who are ill. There is a total lack of commitment to housing policy, which is the most important thing for those who are the poorest. SV could never have agreed to such an arrangement that the working party has now agreed to. It is far too unsocial, too poor a distribution profile, too poor an environmental profile and too many right-wing structural measures that we could have agreed to something similar.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e666	SV spends more money for all public purposes. There are virtually no limits to how much SV will build up the public sector. In any case, increased public expenditure must be paid at higher taxes. We know that Norway already has some of the highest taxes and charges in this world. So it's going to get worse if SV gets to decide. Competition outsourcing is banned, and monopolies are sacred cows for SV. My question is: does SV have any good proposals to reduce public expenditure and to streamline municipal activity, or is there only more money for municipalities that is the only solution SV can see? Does SV have only one proposal to make reference to cost-effective municipal operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e674	I sometimes get very surprised at the debate that is taking place in Stortinget. The municipal committee is quite a lot out there and visits the municipal sector, and as individual representatives we are. There's an incredible amount of renewal work going on in the municipal sector, and it's been doing it for a lot of years. SV has been a strong supporter of many of the conversion processes in the municipal sector. We have even suggested that the strategy for which we have put together should be the one for which the municipal sector and several municipalities have taken the initiative. It's been very successful. So when the Progress Party manufactures it as if there has not been any renewal and efficiency in the municipal sector, and that SV has been against it, it is totally wrong. SV wants better well-being, less poverty, better school and better health and care than the Progress Party does. Then it is clear that we need to spend a little more money on it than the Progress Party does. The progress party thinks it's nicer with tax credits for those who are rich than SV does.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e681	I feel that SV is indignant and contaminated. They are indignant for the taxes that have been paid, even though they know that they have given a new business to a press. They are also responsible for increased private wealth, although they know that he has also come because the interest has fallen and has given cheaper rents to all those who have invested in houses and homes, something that an otherwise tends to prioritise also in SV. At the same time, they are concerned that the tax estimate needs to be adjusted down for 2003. How does SV think it would have looked like if businesses and jobs had not been strengthened by tax relief and interest rates? Does SV sometimes take inwards into all its indignation over so-called unsocial policies that Norway three years in a row is capable of the world's best country to live in, and that we can easily experience such a ranking even once? Is World Wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e688	It is not that SV is indignant about the Government. SV is deeply dismayed and quite upset that a government with the Christian People's Party is able to prioritize wealth for the richest at the expense of the poorest. So the majority of the taxes that are given are not given to most people. They are given to the richest. It's just looking at the tables. They show unsocial cuts of over DKK 6 billion to children, the poor, the sick and the unemployed, while the wealthiest have received DKK 4.9 billion as a result of the dividend tax, the housing tax, the top tax and the option tax. We're indignant about that. There are more poor children in Norway now than when this government took over. It's true what this government has promised, and we think it's wrong. We also believe that it is very wrong not to use government power and bet in school so that it becomes modern and forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e693	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e696	Never before has the increase in funds from one year to the next been greater for the municipal sector than from 2003 to 2004. Never! The increase is $6,685 billion (U.S.). It's a lot of money. The increment is also large in percent, 6.1 pst. This means increasing well-being in Kommune-Noreg. That means Norway will be an even better place to live next year. It is not unlikely that we will receive another year's ranking as the world's best country to live in. I think this debate is too negative, too seventeenth. It's actually time for a little joy, maybe a very little cheering. When else are we going to forget, if not, that $6.6 billion more is going to build the welfare where welfare is created, e.g. in Kommune-Noreg? Even if the opposition sticks to the complaint song, I actually hear some connection from the municipalities. Yes, they still have to keep the money. The problem is waiting, they say. For example, we get older. Elder care will cost more and more every year. It's asking whether it's possible at all to get out of the demographic winter, which we can hardly avoid. And the school is struggling with the elephants that need extra follow-up. Child protection has greater challenges than ever before. Everything is not even about municipal economics – the streets are unsafe, the armies are extensive, with stress and ruin in their pedigree. We may have to ask ourselves some questions about why this is the case. As a Russian, I got a Russian card saying, «Some get results – other consequences...» Do we have a society that doesn't make sure that we get the good results, but rather a society that has bad consequences too? I agree with the philosopher Alexis de Tocqueville when he says that the alternative to a value state is a police state. All communities need a set of values that citizens feel obliged to follow, he says in his great work about the state. Therefore Christian people and I believe that there are such values as that you should not steal, you should not lie, you should not kill, and then you should honor father and mother, who have created freedom for the whole of society. The alternative is, in fact, a controlling state power that strangles the freedom and hence the basis of our people's rule, and it's too expensive and too stupid. This government has as its project to curb the rapid growth of the Oslo region. That's why we have, among other things, out of government workspaces. Everyone's talking about it before, but no one's done it. I wonder when we get a little cheery from the Center Party. But for regional and regional policies, government jobs are not enough, of course not. First of all, business needs to be given conditions that give people jobs. High interest rates, a sky-high dollar rate together with a pay level that is well above the level in our neighbouring countries, could break the competitive edge of business. But now everything is going so much better: the interest rate has fallen by 4.5 pst., and the exchange rate is therefore weak. The wages are the same and so they are. But optimism is coming back, and unemployment flats out. This is the most important thing for the districts, and for people to build and live there. But we should not underestimate the fact that part of the centralization stream is a cultural choice. It is difficult for the districts to compete if opera and cafeteria become important good. And with a 1.8-year-old reproduction, the population can no longer afford to send a single youth to the city without any major consequences or immigration. Demography, or population development, is also most important for the future of the districts. The Christian People's Party will strengthen the county as a regional development actor. We believe that white and mind is well managed by the populace at regional level. And we're glad the county councils got 400 million. kr more in the budgetary agreement. They actually needed it. The big and difficult issue in this budget is the employer's fee. It's a sad fact that we're forced by the EEA and by ESA to leave the most accurate regional policy measure we had. That's what happens when the rules are going to be the same from South Italy to Lofoten. That's crazy. The government has made the best of the situation. Fortunately, we can continue as before in Finnmark and Nord-Troms, and the fisheries and agricultural industries are excluded because we have EEA membership and not EU membership. The additional costs to business will be returned in their health to the districts. De minimis aid must now be granted, which is important and of great importance not least for the enterprises with less than 20 added. Actually, they're not going to come out any worse with the new system. And fortunately in Norway we have many such small businesses. Money is also being returned as transport aid, and the Government has been given transitional arrangements. The Christian People's Party believes that the state is charging more employers' fees, must be returned in its entirety to the regions that have been hit, and one must ensure that there is no excessive distortion. In this case, the size has ordered an annual overview where the extra costs and compensations are presented. It is also important that the reduction in the electricity charge is not considered as compensation for the employer’s fee. In a collaboration between the government party and the Labour Party, the Stortinget in this budget has made changes in the employer's fee so that we believe that each krona should be returned to the districts from which they come, and that it is less likely that this conversion will be lost, which we regret. There is no doubt that it will be a challenge to reduce the influx of asylum seekers to Norway. When the whole 49 pst. of those seeking asylum coming from countries in Europe, something is ripping crazy. Even if we increase the permits in this area by more than DKK 1 billion, we need to reduce the unjustified asylum requests in order to be balanced. For the Christian People's Party, however, it is important to stress that Norway must accept those who need our protection – must accept those who are actually persecuted. And the Christian People's Party believes that we in Norway, with our resources, must give priority to women and children when it comes to quota refugees. And those who will be here will have to learn Norwegian and get a job, because this will make integration effective – for the benefit of the asylum seeker and for the benefit of Norway. I point out that my colleague will go closer to the topic of minorities, common policies and the labour market. But let me now say that the prescription for the next year sounds like: the local economy is getting better, the unemployment rate is going to go down, the interest rate is going to stay low, there's going to be a growing optimism in business, and Norway will probably once again be drawn to the world's best or, at any rate, to the world's best country to live in. Then I didn't think it was much to cry for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e742	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e745	Many central Christian People's Party politicians spoke very critically about the draft state budget when it came, about the lack of commitment to the municipalities. Among other things, the leader of the Christian People's Party and the county rapporteur, Toril Selsvold Nyborg, said the following: ‘The budget is a disaster for the county. What does the government intend us to live by?" And not so unnaturally did the Christian People's Party rapporteur in Skjervøy, Roy Waage, after the agreement with the Workers' Party, say that the Workers' Party's proposals have followed up the grassroots of the Christian People's Party. My question to the representative Anita Apelthun Seele is therefore: Does this not indicate that the Christian People's Party has been in the wrong company?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e757	There was an increase in the municipal economy. He was pretty big, he was actually bigger than ever in billions, i.e. $3 billion. Toril Selsvold Nyborg and Skjervøy spokesperson can point out, we've heard many times. There's a job there, too, to point out what kind of problem they have where they're responsible. I don't fully understand the question when the Labour Party asks if we are in the wrong company. In this context, we are simply in company with the Workers' Party, and as a result, County Spokesman Toril Selsvold Nyborg has received 400 million. kr extra for the county councils, and the coordinator in Skjervøy is probably also happy for the time being, with 2.2 billion kroner more for the municipalities. So the company should be good when both the government party and the labour party are in the same company.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e764	We must reduce the unjustified asylum applications, said Anita Apelthun Seele in his speech. I would remind you that since 1998, therefore, the asylum flow to Norway has almost exploded. In 1995, 1460 asylum seekers arrived in Norway, in 1996 1 778 and in 1997 2 271. And as soon as the Christian People's Party and the Bondevik I government took over, the number exploded in 1998 to 8,374 and to 10,160 in 1999. Since then, the number has increased dramatically — to 10,842 in 2000 and to a record 17,480 in 2002. In the light of the experience gained since 1997, does not the Christian People's Party see today that the very liberal refugee and asylum policy to which they referred from the very beginning of 1997 has been unfortunate and that they therefore need to reconsider their liberal refugee and asylum policies? Or was this something that the Christian People's Party really wanted, and therefore does not see the need for tightening up in the number of asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e771	Not only the number of asylum seekers has exploded. The problems in the world have also exploded – war in Europe, war on most continents, and people in need are looking for other places to live. At the same time, the world has been smaller. Those who live in poverty in some parts of the world see that in other areas it flows from milk and honey. This makes the move between countries bigger than they used to be. One knows that people have better places in other places, and a seeker has happiness. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that we give priority to those who are truly persecuted. That's why we can't have such a square policy that we're at risk that some of those who are really persecuted are not allowed to stay in Norway. At the same time, we don't have the power to take care of anyone who could need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e778	The representative Apelthun Seele says that this budget is little to cry for. Yeah, I totally agree with that. Most people in Norway are doing very well, and the point is, why aren't you able to deal with those who have the most difficulty, when most of us are as incredibly rich as we are? It is particularly unacceptable that children live in poverty. ‘Pregnant families of children are a priority target in the overall effort to combat poverty’, said the Government in its Action Plan against Poverty – ‘Unacceptable’. So you have an increasing poverty problem, and then you have a tax policy that has a value profile that is so that the one with a lot of money is going to get more. They're over 1 million. kr in income, such as: derives the greatest benefit from the exemption from tax on dividends from shares. Does the representative Apelthun Seele think it would have been equally ‘unacceptable’ if these people might have waited a little while to increase their prosperity further?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e786	I'm glad we're a few that there's little to cry for in Norway, most people are doing well. So this government is committed to fighting poverty at a poverty package. We found it unacceptable that some fell between two chairs. We know it's hard to get the problems that are in the rush and in the job. That's why we've made the point that it's going to have to fight the unemployment problem. More rapid than anyone has been able to do this through economic fluctuations in the past, we have actually managed to get into a situation where business is once again optimistic, and that is the most important thing to avoid poverty spreading, including for children, because children live in families where people are either in work or are unemployed. So to this with the tax policy. Most of the tax breaks have gone right to business, and it was necessary to achieve what was the main goal, that is, to get people to work. It's true that some of the richest people in Norway now have actually moved their money to the bank and away from business, because it wasn't beneficial to have them in business. That's what I thought was negative, and therefore the dividend tax was negative.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e797	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e800	With this government budget, municipalities will grow historically from this year to the next year at NOK 6.7 billion. That's what Left thinks is good. The municipal sector was a priority in the Government’s proposal to the State budget. Now he's more of a priority than that. It has cost in other areas, but the money comes well into a sector such as under-balanced labour after many years of under-financing and detailed reforms. As important as more money is greater freedom to spend money as it is best according to local circumstances. The left is happy to be in a government leading for more freedom and more responsibilities locally, where the best tasks can be solved and resolved against each other. Then the money went further. Only once in the last 15 years has a rise towards such an increase for the local government sector, and not as far as now. It was in the 1997 budget, and the increase was slightly above $5 billion. Then it was the center party in opposition that pushed the labor party government to an increase that the government found was at the limit of the defense. I don't remind you of this to draw the parallel to this political side of the case, but to see that it's a reason for not having such a growth in the local economy. The standard throughout the 1990s has been about half. That's the way it was during the central government. The central party then sat with the municipal minister, and together with the rest of us in the government he wriggled to shake a few more kroner to the municipalities within a sanctity that demanded tightening. Then there were completely different numbers than what one sees today. Therefore, it is quite provocative to listen to the Center game here today and also to read their comments in the settings. In the opposition, the money is loose, and one has to resort to juxtaposition in relation to the rule of action in order to get his raise financed. You know that in every government they had to go into, this won't be possible. Ground contact is also available when the representative Meltveit Kleppa decides to present the Government's policy against the truth. Citation: ‘This member records that this Government has as its primary objective the reduction of the public sector. The main thrust of this work seems to be a blind belief in privatisation, postponing competition and improving the efficiency of the public sector.’» Even after writing to the same representative: ‘This member indicates that the Government has a long-term strategy to change the municipality structure in Norway. In this plan, in the view of this member, there appeared to be two main elements, the closure of the county municipality and massive municipal mergers.» It would be interesting to ask 'this member' where she finds this strategy, except in her own head. In the election campaign, the government had to take the leader of the Central Party strongly into school for her imaginative, not to say directly false, presentation of the government's WTO policy. It seems like there's been a pattern for the Center Party to talk falsely about the other party. It seems to me that I am very disappointed by a party that one in the Left has had a good cooperation with both central and local. The other party has had problems with reality. In the budget setting, write among others: Socialist Left Party that the state budget has a ‘clear right mark’. In addition, SV writes: «The lack of political direction is urgent». Outside it is stated that ‘the action space is used up by tax administrations and the Government will reduce the public sector’. Most have probably learned that tax havens were not prioritised much by the Government this time, and that the public sector is still increasing monthly. It is not easy to combine propaganda with reality. For the Left, this budget is clearly moving towards a better economy and increasing local freedom of action, within the responsible budget frameworks providing reduced unemployment and reduced interest rates, and giving municipalities better room for manoeuvre. When this historic promise is not enough for some, I have to agree with the Progress Party, who in the setting notes that the black paint does not end. Some will never be content in any case. It is true that there will be a little bit of a blue moon day for both the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party if, as strange as it can be heard, they will be in government and the top of next year's budget increase with additional billions. The left is pleased with the VAT refund system, which will make it easier to implement a competitive postponement where the municipalities themselves find that it makes sense. It is not such that the Government sees competitive exposure as the solution to everything. Nor is it the case, as the Socialist Left Party writes, that poor public services are «a conscious part of the Government's privatisation strategy». It must be feared that a postponing competition should make sense, which means that one must resort to such exaggerations. The government is focusing on the spread of power and decentralization. The county councils are given great opportunities to demonstrate their usefulness through increased efforts in regional development, innovation and industrial development. The left and government want a third level of government, but it's under pressure. The county councils must be aware of their grievances, and the left hopes they will benefit from them. Of course, the left supports the proposals put forward by the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e851	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e854	The economy in the municipal sector is very difficult. While the government is tightening up economic ruin, it is also failing tax entry. In addition, about 25 pst. by the municipalities under public administration. In the representative of Vihovde's own county, Hordaland, there are ten municipalities in the blacklist. The budgetary agreements between the Government Party and the Workers' Party did something about this situation. I would like to refer a little bit to the changes that have occurred in the Vihove neighbourhood. So, for example, in the case of Quam, they got 3.8 million. kr more in the budgetary agreement. It helped reduce kindergarten prices. It helped to strengthen prevention work among children and young people. It helped to increase the cultural effort, and it helped get more computers into the backbone. I must say I am quite surprised at the statements made by the representative Vihoves here today. Don't the representative agree that the government's arrangement was initially too bad? How can the representative claim that the municipal sector was a priority in the government’s approach?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e863	I believe that if the representative Upbeøen Hansen goes back and sees in the budget proposals that have come from different governments over the last decade, he will see that the draft budget that came from this government contained the greatest leverage ever taken in relation to the municipal sector. Then I want to say that I and the Left are not dissatisfied with the budget agreement where we got more money for the local government sector, but part of the funding one did to finance these 2 billion kroner, was not the first choice of the Left. I would also like to say that the entrance ticket – to go back to the temporary addendum scheme, a scheme that would lead to more young people and more unemployed actually getting a job and getting out of work – was quite far inside the left. We actually think that in today's situation, with such a high unemployment rate, it would have been an important incentive to get more people to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e872	According to the media, the Left is now a party that has substantial power in the Government. It is therefore with interest that I note the contribution of the representative of Vihovde regarding the relationship with the Central Party. Not for that; I expect that the representative Meltveit Kleppa will defend his own positions, but it is enough of interest when the representative Vihovde points out that the government has no strategy, that competitive outsourcing is not an important element of this government's policy, nor does the government have any strategy or agenda in relation to the municipal structure. My question to the representative Vihovde will then be: Is it that the Left, with its ‘essential power’, is now turning the Government against using the principle of competition as an important element? And is it also the case that the Left, with its «substantial power» in government, will stop the strategy and agenda of the Council of State to change the municipal structure in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e879	It's a little interesting to register that the representative Sandberg and the Progress Party are actually now saying that the Left has power. Sitting in government and taking responsibility, showing willingness to compromise and working together brings real results. It is not the strategy of this government to shut down municipalities. This government has said that it must be entirely voluntary if the municipalities want to merge, or if they want to cooperate. The government also has no strategy when it comes to putting out competition. In the left we believe that it must be up to each municipality to assess whether they want to launch their services. It is a local priority, one of which must be given priority as to whether this will affect the population. If a competitive environment does not appear to exist, its inhabitants will give a clear feedback about the next option. Taking advantage of one's resources, having the freedom to decide how to use them, and where to use them, for the benefit of the municipality's citizens, is the policy of the Left. The government allows for a postponing of competition, but the choice is local.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e888	The representative from the Left is very concerned that there is a difference between propaganda and reality. One of the last areas in which the Left's leadership has highlighted itself is immigration and refugee policy. What this government has done is tighten up in some areas that are very important for the most difficult refugees, namely the quota refugees. For two consecutive years, the Government has decided that the refugees in the world who are in refugee camps, and who have the most difficulty, will take less responsibility for it. It's very difficult for SV to understand that this has any kind of connection with the image Left tries to create of itself a seam as a refugee-friendly party. In addition, this government has removed Norwegian training for asylum seekers with a known identity waiting for treatment at refugee reception. We know that very much inhibits integration. Where has the Left been in these matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e895	I admit that we have a huge challenge when it comes to the way we treat those who come to Norway. However, the very institution of asylum, the very institution of refugees, is under pressure. There are so many people in Norway who are actually here to seek a job and to get a better life, but who don't need protection, don't need asylum, aren't persecuted. Then you have to tighten up to spend the money on those who really need it the most. I had hoped that there could have been a really solid plurality in this room that had recognized that one could open up for work immigration, open up so that others could come to Norway to seek a job, get a better life. If we had managed to do that, many of those who are in the line that we are currently using a lot of money would come to Norway in another way. Then we could have spent our money on those who really need them, ensuring a good integration for those who really need an emergency port, and who come to Norway just because of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e901	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e904	The Labour Party had a larger budget investment in the municipalities, with SEK 3.2 billion in free income in addition to the Government's proposals. Twice as many would be offered labour market measures. Children’s families with very low incomes would receive housing support. Health services were to be maintained. Our scheme would provide 24,000 more people with work or training. Increased activity in the local, health and infrastructure sectors would contribute to the creation of 10,000 new jobs. It would have been a good grip to bring down the high unemployment. The budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the government parties was a good step in the right direction. The government’s “Right Budget” got a significant left turn: less to tax bills, NOK 2.2 billion more to municipalities, more to hospitals and more to the unemployed. Many are pleased, not least in the municipalities, where all political parties are cheering. I have noticed that the right-wing rapporteurs are particularly pleased. The right-hand rapporteur in Ålesund says that they have carried out painful cuts, talking about nursing homes and rehabilitation. 'Everything that can increase our budgets is gold worth,' says the Right-Rapporteur of the Women's Conference. The rapporteur in Svelvik, also from the Right, says: 'For us, the increased transfer means that SFO and the kindergartens are saved. It's very joyful." But also working party rapporteur Ole Haabeth in Fredrikstad is pleased. Fredrikstad Municipality is a town with 70,000 inhabitants struggling with deficits, even after both municipal mergers and constant conversions. Fredrikstad Municipality has low transfers from the State and will receive even less after the cost key for the Russ and Psychiatry was adopted in Stortinget last week, by the government parties using the Progress Party. But the budget agreement gave Fredrikstad 26.5 million. kr more. The money is used well, and the rapporteur gets a lot of good work party policy out of the money: They avoid increasing the rates of SFO.They avoid cutting children’s and young people’s activities. They avoid introducing self-payments on home services.They maintain sibling moderation in kindergartens. They avoid setting up two churches. They avoid introducing self-payment in youth sports halls up to 19 years of age. They're reducing the deficit by 9.6 million. kr. It's just the councillor, Solberg, and the mayor's representative, Martin Engeset, from the Right, who's not as happy that the municipalities are getting more money. The representative Engeset refutes the municipalities that have not managed to deal with the bad economy, and writes in his weekly letter: ‘It is not possible to put under a chair that the worst-case municipalities are those which have for too long failed to take the problems seriously.’ I expect him to include, among other things, aims at the municipality of Moss and the municipality of Askim, where the Right has ruled for eight years and left behind a huge deficit. Now the Workers' Party has taken over the control and started the cleaning job, but it is not done overnight. Therefore, there is a need for increased transfers to municipalities if there is not to be a dramatic cut in the provision of services. So over to something completely different, to immigration and integration policy. Here we are in an area that embraces far, from entry to reception, residence, departure, health, language, integration, labour immigration, etc. In each of these areas again, there are many challenges. These are challenges that must be solved in the near future if we are to succeed. At least here the Council of State cannot be satisfied with the situation. For never before have so many unwarranted asylum seekers come to Norway as this year. Never before have so many people been in reception as now. Never before have so many people been waiting to settle in a municipality that is now. And never before have so many people been waiting to be sent out of the country as this year. At the same time, the Council of State believes that this should be completely different to the next year. Next year, the Government expects the number of asylum seekers to drop to 10,000, against about 16 000 this year. The Labour Party believes that this is a very optimistic number, which is uncertain. That is why we expect the Government to come back to the revised national budget if it turns out to be more than intended. The Labour Party believes that what is now happening with the establishment of ever new receptions around the country is alarming. At a high pace, reception is established without involving local communities. If it continues to happen that way, we will never succeed in achieving good integration. Therefore, a majority, all outside the government parties, promotes proposals for the Government to present a separate case on the asylum reception situation, including measures to improve contact between the recipient and the community. I assume that the Council of State also believes that this is urgent, and that he will come back to Stortinget with a case of his own in the spring session. The same batches also consider that there is a need to differentiate the receptions. Today, people with a high need for psychiatric treatment live in normal reception. This creates uncertainty for residents, major problems for employees and difficulties in the local environment. Many of these persons are sent from reception to reception country round. It can't go on like that. Therefore, all parties, with the exception of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, believe that there must be some special reception that can take care of them with great mental disorders. Reception must be set up where employees have the necessary skills to deal with the problems so that everyone can feel safe. A majority, the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the SV and the Centre Party, will today decide that the Government should address the need for differentiation of the asylum recipients, where the reception of competence is part of the reception chain. There are now 2,500 people in reception waiting to settle in a municipality. Many have been sitting there for a long time. The Labour Party believes that the main reasons why municipalities cannot assume responsibility for accepting them more quickly are: The government has not introduced the supplementary social assistance scheme for older immigrants adopted by the Stortinget. Therefore, an overall committee will have an evaluation of the current system. What is it that makes the municipalities wait to receive more? We want an assessment of new models. There should still be a voluntary scheme for municipalities, and the job must be done in close cooperation with the Municipal Councils. State grants shall continue to be granted to Norwegian nationals who undertake language training, but the grant shall be phased over a period of six years. The Government tightens up the grant for language training for other immigrants, including: EEA citizens. The Labour Party indicates that there will be a bill on this to spring, and that you will come back to this matter then. I would also like to refer to a comment in the position where the Committee underlines in particular the importance of equality and women's rights organisations and asks for such organisations to be given priority in terms of project support. The Committee believes that Human Rights Service is such an organisation, working with gender equality and women’s rights, focusing on many women’s issues. The Labour Party budget increased the envelope to the House Bank by DKK 2.5 billion. This was an important grip, among other things. in order to increase employment in the construction industry and to enable more people to obtain loans. After the agreement, the increase was NOK 1 billion. As long as we know that we have a government that wants to build down the House Bank from being a bank for people most to a bank for only those who have the most difficulty in the housing market, we see that this goes beyond many who can't get loans in other banks. The Labour Party believes that this is the wrong policy. The government claims they are concerned with poverty and wants to help those who have the most difficulty. That's not true of reality. On a proposal from the Labour Party, the Stortinget decided in the spring of 2003 that the income limit for housing aid should be raised by NOK 30 000. The decision gave 12 000 families with children the right to housing support, and they were paid housing support in 2003. In the budget, the Government reverses the entire scheme, and all these families are deprived of their support. This is completely unreasonable, and for the Workers' Party such an important matter that we return to this matter again on the first occasion. Finally, a few words about the Norwegian Federation of Well-being. Who would have thought that a government trying to highlight non-governmental organisations as something important had come to the Stortinget with a budget where support for the Norwegian Well-being Association had been removed, a federation of 800,000 members who are doing a very large amount of voluntary work in the surrounding environment. I'm glad the committee has put in 1 million. to the Norwegian Federation of Well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e985	There were some things in the last article that surprised me, among other things. the starting point is to return to matters which were settled in the context of the budgetary conciliation as soon as possible. We have a budgetary settlement that relates not only to the adoption of the financial framework but also to this budget, which also has further implications for the financial year 2004. It's a little interesting to sit and listen to debates in connection with our area, because it basically covers the whole spectrum of issues in Norwegian policy. Therefore, there are sometimes some general issues that arise, even though the setting also contains many detailed questions – some might say far down in the details, to be the national parliament of the country. But it's not new, and it's not unusual. I want to say a few things about the debate itself. I think SVs Karin Andersen's contributions were relatively revealing in relation to what is the most important political question for SV. It's that the most important thing is to distribute, and that's totally okay. Then I just want to say that the difference between what the Government stands for, and what SV stands for – which seems to apply to the three parties that define themselves as a block against the Government, with a slight deviation from a budget settlement this fall – is that we think about the welfare society in the future as well. One of the most important things we do is to ensure the growth power of Norwegian society in the years to come. These are actions that need to be taken to reduce the level of costs in our society, labour costs, costs related to the community sector or costs related to family life. It is important to see that the overall policy pursued by the Government, both to reduce public expenditure and to reduce the level of costs for businesses – what is thus called tax policy – is a very significant contribution to our well-being in our society over the years to come. It is important to have answers to some important questions, including: how we can solve the shortage of labour in the future, for example: by ensuring that the threshold for those who are separated from the labour market is not so high as to return. That's an important part of it. Nor do I understand why it should be so useful to argue that we are a country that already suffers from high wage costs – which is a challenge for our working life and our value creation – and that on death and life we should also make sure that we get one of the world's highest capital costs, by taxing capital twice instead of just once. The result of this kind of policy will be that we get less well-being. We get more jobs that become unprofitable. We get fewer people who are in the workplace, and more people who need help outside. It's the most important poverty strategy, to make sure that we have a social life with a working life that actually has the ability to employ those who are not necessarily 100 pst. productive. It may not be a purpose for all those who are separated from our working society to be re-entered by some form of public subsidy in some way. Our goal must be to keep the cost profile, keep the costs in our society, lower than what we do today. Tax policy is then a significant contribution. I say this because there are many articles here that have gone on that the tax profile does not help the poor. Well, the tax profile of the Government helps the poor – not the poorest, that's why we need targeted measures for the poorest to get them back – it actually helps the poor because it makes us get more jobs in our society. Let me go to the Ministry of Local Affairs' budget. There are several major issues that are being advised within our budget this year. I think the most important thing is to stress that there are going to be relatively large conversions and changes related to immigration. Next year we will try to formulate a new policy to include and discuss the multicultural society. We need to get back to a better legal protection against racism and new citizenship laws. We are working on several major reforms, and the first part will be implemented in the municipal sector until next year, namely the introduction system. There have been priority areas in our budget options to ensure that municipalities are further developed and stimulate them to build up their skills related to this, including: through 30 million. kr, which is distributed among municipalities that start – but have not previously participated – projects related to this. Another important theme that I think will be crucial if we are actually getting what we want on the integration side is to relieve the pressure on the asylum institution. This is why the Government in this budget has proposed that the number of asylum seekers should decrease next year. We have promoted a package of mitigation measures that we believe will work against the so-called traction forces in the Norwegian community, among others. by focusing more strongly on information measures in the country of origin of asylum seekers. We reduce the cash benefits for asylum seekers in reception, both those in transit and those who have received final rejection. We introduce the 48-hour process of processing asylum applications from people from safe countries. We are working intensively on the transport of people, with the help of the police, not least by doing what is essential in order to get to the shipment, namely to have agreements with other countries that ensure that we get the identification papers quickly. So there is no lack of money for the police to follow them out, which is the situation today. What is primarily missing are instruments for re-establishing travel documents, and it actually contributes to a large part of the cost of the reception budget. We have a number of other measures that have also been launched in connection with this budget, which are important to reduce the number of asylum seekers. So that's our priority. I would like to ask for clarification of the understanding of some of the proposals that have been put forward and which appear to be majority proposals. This is primarily the proposal to address the need for differentiation of asylum recipients where the competence of recipients becomes part of the reception chain. The use of terms and concepts in the field of competence reception is somewhat inconsistent with the definition. An asylum reception for people with mental health problems and for those in need of stronger support is not called reception but reinforced reception. A reception of competence is the definition of a reception which shall have more competence, which shall have a permanent and longer-term agreement. This was developed during the previous big message. We just have to say that with as many problems as we've had and have on the reception side, we've had to downgrade the question of establishing that kind of reception. I just hope that we can get a clear explanation that we're talking here about enhanced reception, what's going on about the mentally unstable and the problems associated with it in relation to the differentiation. We started with that, and we're going to keep working on that question. I fully agree with the majority of the population that it is an important area to focus on. I think it's important that we use the right terms, so we're aware of what's in the content. The second theme is the question of attempts at a new organisation with fixed fees and enhanced training of the guards. We're dealing with the question of forgetfulness. We've already started paying the guards who are involved in an asylum interview. We use approx. 1.2 million. kr to pay the screens in that situation. When it comes to the question of continuing to pay debts with fixed fees, I have to be allowed to interpret this in line with the budgetary agreement, which therefore says that we should not be leading new expenses without all the settlement parties agreeing on it. We can come back with proposals for a new organization. But I would like to say that it will also be difficult if not that arrangement is different from today's arrangement. We will then find ourselves in a situation where we pay for lonely minor asylum seekers, but do not forget for Norwegian minors if we do not have parallels. And it's the same law that regulates both. I also hope the Stortinget sees that in that case we have to have a different type of definition of the arrangement than today's arrangement if you're going to go into this. But I intend to interpret that proposal in the light of the budgetary agreement. That is one last point on which I would like to have a clarification, because now, if this is adopted, we are going to have two conflicting decisions. This is a trifle, but I still want to take it up. The following decision was taken during the debate: ‘The Government requests the Government to present principles and procedures for the future location of asylum recipients and the settlement of refugees in the RNB 2004.’;» Now you want a separate case related to almost the same topic. For rational reasons, it would be natural for this to be seen together. I think perhaps the decision taken in the debate on the throne, which dealt with the principles and the main thrust, should be based, so that we can expect this matter to be brought back again in the context of the revised national budget. Otherwise, there are many themes you could address in this discussion, but I think the most important theme we're going to address in the foreign field next year is to improve the service and information of those who are applying for family reunification and other things. Setting up better service strategies for foreign management is an important part of getting better flow and not least getting the minority we have to feel more involved in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1016	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1019	Speakers not only from the Christian People's Party, but also from the Left and Right, have obviously today sunk in the glory that the municipalities are now getting far more money than the government provided. Similarly, we have heard from the rapporteurs of the government parties. One of the few people who have expressed their views on the improved municipal economy is the municipal minister. Does the government council of Solberg think it was good that the local economy was strengthened by $2 billion, or does she not think so? If so, why did she not even suggest strengthening the municipal economy with more than the government provided? And if no, does she believe that the Right's own complaining rapporteurs are in poor financial management?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1024	Yes, I think it is good that the local economy is strengthened by NOK 2 billion, provided that we can afford the way this is financed, and so you have got a funding at 2.5 billion more in cuts than the government itself has been able to. It has been quite essential to ensure that we have an income page that has made it possible to defend this increase. That's one side. I have nothing against the municipalities getting more money, as long as it takes place within a system where we ensure that more use of public money does not contribute to the municipalities actually getting more costs, because it helps to increase the cost problem in the Norwegian economy. Yes, there are some right-wing rapporteurs who haven't run their economy well. Heir Toning has been on the first side of the Sunnmørspost and admitted that they did not have financial management. A municipality that does not discover that they have 90 million. kr in deficit on the annual budget before February of the following year, does not have good governance. Otherwise, I can announce before a few more bring out Arve Toning quotes, that since that time he has wanted me to continue as a municipal minister, and is very pleased!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1031	First, I have to say that it was with interest that I registered that the Council of State referred to the budgetary settlement of the year as a random deviation. It will be interesting to see its follow-up in 2004 and up to 2005. The Council of State stated that until next year the Government would concentrate on increasing and strengthening the service to include minorities. Governments have been somewhat unclear as to what they mean by these signals, as to the modernisation of Islam, etc. Then the Labour Party and the Advance Party have put forward a proposal in which we are asking the Government to refrain from establishing Shariaråd e.l. I take it for granted that the Council of State has also instructed'sine' parties here on the Stortinget to vote against that proposal. But if it is true, as the remarks also show, that it is not appropriate for the Government to set up such a council, why is it impossible for these parties to vote in favour of this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1040	I answered this question in June, and I then gave a clear message that it would never be appropriate for the Government to set up any Sharia Council, because a religious council of authority within a religion must be established by the congregations that are themselves behind it. Then we have also said that it is completely inappropriate to give any authority to such advice if it is to be established. However, it is fully possible for an Islamic community or more in cooperation to establish advice on family issues among themselves, such as: can help to find good religious solutions, including: the way the London Sharia Council works, which largely manages to persuade men to admit divorces that they would actually refuse. But they don't have any legal authority. I do not intend to oppose it if any Islamic authorities choose to establish anything like this. I think it might be a good parallel into the system. I would like to remind you that a main reason why I would not vote in favour of the proposal that has been tabled – or why I believe that the government parties will not vote in favour of the proposal – is to ban a Sharia Council and so on. We already have two functioning religious courts in Norway – the Jewish Court of Justice and the Catholic Tribunal, as for example. deals with and helps with this type of issue. What you are actually proposing here is that you should: [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1049	First of all, the Swedish tax policy. This year it would mean a tax increase for individuals of approx. 335 million. kr. For business, our arrangement would mean a tax relief in relation to the government's arrangement. In addition, we had a research effort of SEK 1.2 billion, increased depreciation to business by SEK 1.5 billion, innovation and development SEK 1.1 billion and other business activities by DKK 1.1 billion. That is what creates jobs, not tax havens that are used only for private consumption. This has been taken up by the Central Statistical Office and said – one of the important things here – that this money could have gone to sensible investments in school, health, care, public transport and research, and that, according to the SSB, it would actually have got 50,000 more in work than it is today. Does the Council of State think that it is that if there had been more in work, would it have been negative for the development of the country and for the important resource as the labour force is, which would be destroyed if it went free?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1056	It is not the case that dividends from enterprises are used for homeless personal consumption. Dividends from enterprises are often used to reinvest in new business projects — they are actually used to provide the capital and venture capital needed by others to start up the enterprise. It is therefore very unclear to me how to expect Norway to be an attractive country to create business in, if we both have high wage costs and high capital costs, if we are to demand more returns and withstand a higher cost level due to a tax system, because of that kind of burden. So I actually fully agree that we could spend more on some investment measures in the public sector, and we actually do that in this budget. We have more – we still have money for school buildings. It spends almost DKK 1 billion on public construction within the country, so there are such elements already in it, and the budget agreement has more on the plant side. But we don't have 50,000 unemployed in the construction industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1063	Governments saw a strong search for labour shortages in the municipal sector. The Central Party has now asked the Ministry how the increasing number of sub-choices is divided between health, education and administration, for example. The answer is, the department doesn't know anything about it. Different trade unions have figures that tell us that there are large reserves of people who would have a full-time job if they got one. A tight community economy overlaps its options. It's a disturbing development, and it's a very bad signal to the many people who would like to have a job in this field, and who are newcomers. The SSB’s figures show that in 2000 there were 32 p.m. of those added to the local government sector in sub-sampling. In 2002, the same figure was 41 pst. Would the Council of State be doing something to get away from sight and get an overview and put a number on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1069	It is absolutely right that there is underemployment in some professions and that there are some in the local government sector. These include: This is why the focus has been on how to improve tour planning in the municipal sector, an area, for example: The Ministry of Social Affairs has been busy developing, because the type of tour planning you have makes it impossible to use the labour force in a good way. Some of the things I use as an example are the exciting tour projects with wish tours that have been done in several places, among other things. in Haukeland Hospital, where you have gone from having three-part tour to having 26 different tournaments, which allows people to choose more, and which also allows people to work more. It is an important development project. In addition, the Minister of Labour and Administration is working on the question of part-time work in cooperation with representatives of the parties and through a public body, so that he may be able to respond better to exactly the overall strategy of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1074	Nearly 25 pst. of the municipalities here in the country are blacklisted – per. On December 1st, there are actually 107 municipalities, and that's a new record. State Council Erna Solberg writes in Rana Blade under the heading «Facts and myths of imbalances in the municipal sector» that it is not true that municipalities that end up on the state blacklist get too little money – it is wrong, there is no connection there. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State really think that there is no connection between the economy and the service provision that municipalities can then provide, and that being under state control?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1081	This gave me the opportunity to clarify a misunderstanding earlier that goes on that Karin Andersen said that I had made a record in poor local economy. But as measured by the amount of money the municipalities have, I have not done so. There I have a lot of percent left before we reached a situation similar to that at the end of the 1980s under Gro Harlem Brundtland, which put the deciduous record in the greatest mismatch between the operating results in the municipal sector and otherwise. So it is not the poorest municipalities in the country that are on the ROBEK list. It is not that there is an excess of those with the least income. What often causes you to get on the ROBEK list is that you suddenly get a change in some kind of income, or suddenly a very large increase in expenditure, and there are actually municipalities with middle incomes and a little above average that are there the most. There is also a background to saying that it is not that poor municipalities are unable to get ends to meet – the poorest municipalities in Norway are actually able to maintain a better link between income and expenditure than some of the other municipalities are doing, and that also has something to do with governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1088	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1091	I want to start my post by pointing out that in 1814 Norway had limited national autonomy after 434 years of Union relations. Only 23 years later, in 1837, the newly won national autonomy was followed up by the introduction of a limited local autonomy in the country. The country was divided into 355 lords and 37 cities. This was very far-sighted, and it has become very important for today's welfare society. Over the 166 years since the establishment of the municipalities in 1837, there has been a raging development, both in the municipalities and in all important areas of society – economic, technological, political and social – in our country. Economically, over the last hundred years, Norway has gone from being Europe, perhaps the poorest, to becoming the richest country in the world. Technologically, hydropower development and large industrialisation in the last century have laid the foundation for a high degree of national value creation and almost full employment. Politically, since the Union’s dissolution in 1905, Norway has evolved into a stable, democratic rule of law. And socially, in a relatively short time Norway has evolved from being a nation of poverty and social need to appear as one of the world's most advanced and comprehensive welfare societies. So over half a century, we have developed a Norwegian welfare society where equality, redistribution and justice have been the guiding political principles and driving forces of the process. The key to today's welfare society has been largely in the efforts of municipalities. Without the central role of municipalities in welfare development, today's welfare society would not be the same. For many years, the efforts of municipalities were limited to school and poor housing. Today, there is a completely different diversity — and a completely different complexity — that characterises municipal activities. The growth in the tasks of municipalities has been enormous in the last ten years. A growing number of tasks and reforms have been imposed on municipalities, and expenditure has increased as a result of the scale of tasks. This has meant that today’s municipalities have come under a great pressure in the role of producer of publicly funded welfare services. New generations and more rights-providing citizens are increasingly demanding both the quality, scale and level of different municipal services. All of this, of course, has a significant economic side, and the welfare community has become increasingly expensive in operation. At regular intervals, we look up in the newspapers about the failure of elderly care and cut in schools. Poor municipal economy due to low government transfers is most often presented as the explanation of municipal cuts. For this reason, the level of State transfers to the local government sector has become a central political issue, not least the Stortinget. Municipalities have no tax rights of their own of importance, and the possibilities of increasing their own incomes are also minimal. In fact, the ability of municipalities to reduce expenditure is far greater than the ability to increase revenue. To reduce expenditure, the choice is often to cut or to make it more effective. There must be a requirement for municipalities to become more aware of the need to improve the efficiency of operation before cutting down on municipal services. Therefore, efficiency and cost-saving through competitive outsourcing in municipal service production must not be left untapped in any poor-economy municipalities. Too few municipalities use competition as an efficiency-enhancing tool to some extent. Many municipalities are struggling for ideological and political reasons to apply the competitive environment. To that end, I would say that municipalities that do not even want to assess the outsourcing of competition cannot be taken seriously when they complain about the poor local economy. When the Storting finally clears up the road that has been hampering the VAT system for the outsourcing of competition, this is a victory for the Progress Party, which has been proposing this for many years. I am therefore very pleased that the VAT compensation system is now being extended, so that this is no longer a barrier to competitive outsourcing. This is an important step forward. Now it is up to the municipalities to seize the possibilities that lie in this. Traditional municipal monopoly areas, such as school, health and care services, are increasingly being challenged by competition from private operators or others. Focusing on the freedom of choice of citizens, now also in the public-funded areas of well-being, is under development and on a strong drive. Traditional public welfare monopolies are breaking up bit by bit, society is changing, and the traditional view of the tasks, role and function of the municipality will gradually change in the future. The operational strategy of municipalities will be more characterised by professional market orientation and customer thinking. The traditional municipal welfare monopoly will be gone. A new time, when statutory individual rights to welfare services and a money-follower-user system will be able to completely reverse old ways of operating and thinking about municipal activities. However, this does not, of course, prevent municipalities from meeting with strict demands to make an efficiency contribution themselves. Efficiencies are an important element and a key strategy in creating a long-term and healthy balance between the tasks assigned to municipalities and their resources. I would like to mention that the main grips go along three-four main axes. Firstly, reforming the income system for municipalities. Secondly, municipalities must be given greater responsibility and influence over their own situation. Thirdly, structural measures such as local associations and the outsourcing of competition must be implemented, and the creation of the macroeconomic framework in the municipal sector must also be reconsidered. The establishment of the national financial framework for the municipal sector is a demanding and difficult balance sheet. It must be recognised that municipalities have significant underlying expenditure drivers in terms of increasing numbers of elderly people in need of care, more schoolchildren, higher quality requirements, new tasks, increasing complexity and manning standards. In particular, real wage developments among well and well over 600 000 municipal employees are a factor we need to take into account. We see, then, that the potential for conversion and efficiency of the local government sector is against some structural boundaries. Therefore, it is particularly important that we now operate the municipal sector in the most rational and cost-effective way, without reducing its quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1117	The ‘optimism in the housing market’ is on the newspaper front page. It's supposed to mean hurraying, now goes on the prices of dwellings up. And for those who live by buying and selling dwellings and properties, it's a happy message, as is for those who are going to sell and move to Spain or to other parts of the world. But for the quarter that does not have its own dwelling, which does not own it, the hope of an owner-occupied dwelling disappears as prices rise, which goes up. Next year, it's going to be 7.3 pst. states the Statistical Central Bureau. Nordea believes in the papers today that it's going to be 10 pst. I do not believe that increased housing construction is essential or the key to getting housing prices down. In order to achieve that, I believe that we need to get a real tax on housing, so that we get the speculators, who today use housing as a mere money placement, out of the housing market. But what's absolutely certain is that if we don't get enough housing built, it will obviously help to push prices up, and I deeply disagree with that should be the policy. But it seems like it's the government's policy this year, by the way they've put strong restrictions on what kind of loan the house bank can give to homes. Dwellings larger than 85 m2 will be less measured than today's policy, but fortunately they have changed in the course of the year. It is a problem that the House Bank will no longer have the strong role of a new building bank that it has had in the past. And to me, it seems like Councillor Erna Solberg, in common with Arne Skauge of the Banking Association, has a strong desire for private banks to take over several of the loans that the House Bank gives today. So it's going to be more expensive to borrow, because private banks are more expensive than the House Bank, and it's going to be harder to borrow, because the House Bank is unbureaucratic when it lends. This has resulted in a decline in housing construction today, and a decrease in the number of loans granted by the House Bank. We think this is stupid, because we are for the House Bank to have a strong role, and we are for the House Bank to have a role in the future. And we're going to discuss this in connection with the housing announcement that's coming. In addition, the Start-Up loan has been the great success, according to the Government, in getting young people a place to live. But if we go closer to the start loan, we see that the start loan, which replaced the purchase loan and the old start-up loan, has been lent to many fewer people this year than the start-up loans and purchase loans were lent last year. So how the government can call the Start Loan a success to get more young people into the housing market, stands for me as completely incomprehensible. This means that the main steps of the Government in the housing field have failed. And the result is more people who have trouble getting a place to live. Solidarity is about taking care of the people we don't see, and about not turning our backs on those we see. And I think the government is turning its back on the people who have trouble in the housing market. If we are to pursue a social housing policy that ensures all the security of a good housing in a good housing environment, there is a need to build substantially more rental homes here in the country. We have proposed 600 million in our alternative budget. kr extra to achieve the goal that we put ourselves together with the Workers' Party and the Center Party to build more than 3000 rental homes each year. Unfortunately, only we have fully financed these 3,000 dwellings in our state budget. We will bet on the fact that several of the dwellings being built have qualities for the future, such as radon prevention, energy reduction and geothermal heat. And then we need small subsidies, which the housing industry and the construction industry are calling for. They say that if we can just get some small grants, we'll be able to get these qualities into the homes. It's about low-block lifts, it's about several things that are crucial for old people to stay at home longer, and for homes to have a standard of living, which must be important for people with disabilities. I am most disappointed, however, at the housing support, which should be, as well, the Government's flagship in housing policy for those who need it, because it is a targeted measure. But housing support is much worse for young families with children than for pensioners. It's not fair. In the context of the power crisis, the majority of people in this room — all except government parties — went into the Chamber to raise the income limit for housing aid by DKK 30000 permanently. This would mean that families of two adults and two children, who today can make no more than two times the minimum pension, would have a much greater chance of getting help for their living expenses. It's an effective way to help people. Here's how the government takes from families with children, takes the money that the majority here in the hall thought they should have, and they're running a worse housing policy for families with children. I am pleased that State Councillor Erna Solberg says that she will bet on providing better service to non-residents who are applying for family reunification. There are so many unfairnesses in treatment, and the agency spends so long on the treatment of people seeking services, for example. related to family reunification, that other Nordics would never find their way into it if they had experienced similar things from the public. Our challenge in the coming years will be to pursue an immigration and integration policy that takes into account people's need to move and people's need to live with the family and the needs of society for labour, the need we have to understand and control who lives here in the country, and the conditions under which they live. But raised above all these needs are people's need for protection when they are in flight. That's $40 million. refugees in the world, and we've had a tradition of accepting them and taking care of them. That is why I think it is deeply tragic that we have had a decline in our commitment to the UN in this area as well. We've had a drop of 1,500 refugees, which was the target in the last period, down to 1,200, which we have this year, and down to 750 UN quota refugees that we're going to receive next year. I think that's wrong. We believe that in SV is a wrong priority, because people who are on the run are the ones who have a need that has been raised above all other considerations, and those people we have to take care of. As of 1 January of this year, we are introducing a new rapid treatment of asylum seekers, which we do not believe has any reason to stay after the refugee convention. So we're making a very big device to receive nine people a week from the 48-hour rule, which is the last number above how many people are coming now. Everyone is concerned that too many people come, who should have been told, or should know, that after the refugee convention they don't have a chance to stay. But I see what the Council of State says today in the Newspaper that it is a goal that more people, yes, perhaps all, will undergo a type of rapid treatment, a pre-screening, inspired by the Netherlands, in the years to come. I would just like to say to the Council of State that we in SV are extremely sceptical of a development that can easily take away from asylum seekers fundamental legal certainty. In addition, we're afraid that the focus that's happening now, on shutting out and making shut-downs for all the people who don't have refugee reasons to come here, makes us shut out the ones we're obliged to help. This says the entire committee, except the Progress Party, in the comments in the vote. We know what the state council is doing to prevent people who don't have refugee reasons from coming. My question to the Council of State is: what will the Council of State do to make it easier for people with refugee reasons to come to Norway? In the years to come, we need to make a policy that deals with the people's migrations that are in the world. Then we have a policy in which we want more people to be able to come here on labour immigration. Then I have a question for the government. In the context of the enlargement of the EEA area, no specific organisation has been provided by the Government for people to come, while we believe that it is essential that all the people who come to Norway should work under Norwegian pay and working conditions. We also believe that, in the context of EEA enlargement, it is very foolish to remove the training for those EEA citizens who come here on labour immigration, simply because they are getting less integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1148	The Christian People's Party understands that many municipalities experience the economic situation as difficult. This situation has grown over a long period of time and has been caused by, inter alia: detailed and underfunded reforms, increased pension costs and costly wage and salary settlements. Therefore, the municipalities were one of the winners of the government's budget proposals. The government provided for a large-scale growth in the free income of municipalities. This profile was further strengthened in the agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party. In 2004, the local government sector receives a historical increase in income in excess of DKK 6 billion. This is close to NOK 1500 per year. the population. But there are several other relationships that will also turn out positive next year. The government's economic policy has contributed to lower interest rates. The effect of an interest rate reduction of 4,5 pst. is approximately DKK 3.5 billion on an annual basis for municipalities and counties. I am aware that the gain in 2004 varies between municipalities, depending on the size of the loan debt and interest-rate agreements. The reduction in interest rates also has the positive side-effect of it will lead to increased tax input. In addition, we have now established a funding mechanism for resource-intensive users that better reflects local government expenditure in this area. This is an arrangement the Christian People's Party has long fought for. Finally, people with high needs for care will be able to receive equivalent services irrespective of where they live. They deserve that, and we sincerely hope that they will now avoid using their assigned powers to fight for their rights. It's not worth the welfare community. All of this, along with NOK 3 billion for upgrading school buildings, would mean light in the tunnel for Kommune-Norway. This effort is very pleased with the Christian People's Party. This is a major step in the right direction to enable municipalities to carry out important welfare tasks towards their citizens. We want to appear to be non-discriminatory and tolerant in this country. But we're not going back far in history until we find disturbing stories that have taken place in public. I am thinking of several minorities who have been subjected to forced sterilisation, lobotomy, abuse of orphanages, lack of schooling, etc. This is a story we can't be familiar with. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the Government has taken this into account. In 2003, a contact forum was established between national minority organisations and the Government to strengthen their dialogue between them. We are also pleased that the Ministry has undertaken an overall assessment of the adequacy of existing compensation schemes for the needs of society to address the abuses or neglects that have been committed. The Roman people have one of the saddest stories. This people have received an unreserved recognition and apology from the Norwegian authorities, but the concrete follow-up to this excuse is slow. It concerns both the possibility of individual replacement, collective replacement, documentation and the preservation of the tether culture and, in particular, the prevention of infringements of the International Convention on Minorities. These are good legal arguments, and even better political arguments, for the Roma people/taters to get collective compensation. It is the entire population group as such who were subjected to systematic abuse by or initiated and supported by Norwegian authorities. Individual assaults took place because the person was part of a minority group. The Romani/Tatians Foundation held a meeting with the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs earlier this fall, where they presented their thoughts on the creation of a fund as a collective substitute for the Romani people. The Council of State favoured this without pre-empting anything, but wanted the department and the foundation to continue working on the matter. As a follow-up, the Foundation met with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs on 22 October. It was a very positive meeting, in which the department continued to express a great deal of understanding of the Foundation's arguments for such a fund. It was concluded that the Foundation should continue to work on concreteising the forms and content of the Fund, so that everything is clear when political clearance, if any, takes place, hopefully in the near future. The statutes of a foundation to govern such a fund are an essential part of that work. It was therefore agreed that the Romani people/tatians Foundation would submit a proposal before the next meeting with the Ministry of Local Affairs. These statutes are immediately clear from the Foundation's side and will be sent to the Department. A fund provided as a collective substitute can make a valuable contribution to the work of concreteising and following up the apology. In order to document, maintain and develop the tater culture, a number of measures should be initiated. The department of the Glomdal Museum is therefore very good, but not sufficient. The culture of action is diverse, and different characteristics make themselves felt in different places in the country. Several small documentation and exhibition units are therefore relevant. Furthermore, provision should also be made for a living cultural life with collections, courses and festivals. It is difficult for many to inform themselves about their rights and to contact the authorities. There is therefore a great need for a secretariat where the Roma people can seek help and information on rights, individual compensation or other support schemes. The Fund should finance such an office. Since many of those who were subjected to the most serious abuses start to go in the years, speeding up this work is urgent. The Christian People's Party will therefore challenge the Council of States to ensure rapid progress and rapid clarification of the compensation scheme for the Roma people. As co-rapporteur, I am pleased that a joint committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, agrees that we should continue to work to facilitate the development of the Sami People's Group in order to ensure and develop its own language, culture and society. The majority of the Committee is committed to strengthening the role of Sametinget as a preliminary supplier to the Government. This majority also agree that the Sameting must be given greater political influence on matters of particular interest to the Sami population. Strengthening the pooling in order to further invest in bilingualism is therefore positive. The Committee majority is aware that the conditions of Saemien Sijte in Snåsa are difficult. This is the main meeting place for Southern Sami culture and administration. We have therefore asked the department to assess the situation of Saemien Sijte. In the last few days, we have received several messages pointing to the fact that unemployment is on the way down. We can also read that the International Monetary Fund believes that the prospects for recovery in the Norwegian economy in 2004 are good. The money fund we think we'll see the effect of the interest rate reductions and a weaker dollar. At the same time, the Fund underlines that growth prospects depend on wage moderation. And it's also shown that it's just when everyone's comin' together, that we're getting results. We have to keep doing that. However, today's situation requires that we continue and strengthen labour market policy. We set up several action sites and strengthen Aetat. Active job search and targeted use of interventions are important strategies for the rapid entry into work of the unemployed. Furthermore, it is essential that vulnerable groups of disabled persons be given appropriate measures to clarify and qualify for normal working life. I am also pleased that an overall committee is concerned that the offers of permanent work for people with disabilities are being increased. It will allow more people to have a meaningful life through participation in the world of work. Policy is about being in position to influence the allocation of available resources. The budget confirms what we all know from everyday life: it's not just about how much money you have at your disposal. Equally important is how the money is spent. Christian People's Party has been involved in influencing how the money will be spent in 2004 – priority should be given to the municipal sector! I understand that the Socialist Left has problems in characterising such a good budget. Under one and the same comitology, they mention that the budget lacks a ‘political direction’ and is a budget ‘clearly right’. The Christian People's Party will take a great deal of distance from such characteristics. We would rather praise the Workers' Party, who saw that the Government had provided such a good budget for the country that they could not fail to enter into an agreement with us. Finally, on page 106, under point C, Framework Independent Decision XII, it reads: «The Government is asked to draw up annual reports showing the conditions and the situation of the disabled on the labour market.» It is the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Center Party that have the setting. The Right and Christian People's Party did not participate in this majority in committee proceedings, but will vote in favour of the proposal. We've already expressed that we're in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1193	Although the Workers' Party's alternative government budget is a far better budget than what the Government proposed, the Budget Agreements between the Labour Party and the Government Party mean that a policy turns in the right direction, which we are pleased with. For the Workers' Party, employment, more money for municipalities, more for schools and more for health and care have been crucial in order to enter into an agreement as it is today. In addition to the specific budgetary changes, the agreements also contain other measures that we are aware of. Then, of course, the Labour Party must also vote subsidiaryly in some areas, for which we are not as happy. This will always be the case when entering into a budgetary settlement. The situation on the labour market is still very worrying. It has just been a drop in the number of completely unemployed in the last month, and it's a pleasure, but still there are a lot of people who don't have a job. There are more than 230,000 people who are totally or partially out of the labour market and who are looking for work through Aetat. By the end of November 2003, 87 352 persons were registered as unemployed, making up 3.7 pst. by the labour force. Compared with the end of November 2002, there is an increase of almost 10,000 people, i.e. 12 pst. Since the Bondevik II government took over on 19 October 2001, the number of total unemployed has increased from about 60,000 to 87 000 people. There's an increase on the top of 27,000 people. If you count on all of the measures, this means an increase of 39,000 people during this period. Two years ago, the Central Statistical Office assumed that 10,000 jobs in industry would disappear by 2010, i.e. from a 10-year perspective. In April this year, the Holden Selection came forward with its forecasts, and they assumed that one would lose 20,000 industrial jobs in the same decade. Now we know the fasit, we've got it from the Statistical Central Bureau. We now know that only in the last year have we lost slightly over 17 000 industrial jobs, i.e. from the second quarter of 2002 to the second quarter of 2003, and these developments are dramatic. The main objective of the Workers' Party's economic policy is to ensure work for all. We want to pursue a policy to ensure that people have work, but also that those who lose work will have something to live on when they become unemployed. The Labour Party will have an inclusive working life, where there is room for everyone. I think that is good labour market policy, good family policy, good health policy and good social policy. So we're going to have a less stressful, a warmer and a healthier working life. This is the big challenge. Too many people now feel that the world of work is becoming more and more brutal. The Intention Agreement has currently not provided a positive outcome for the employment of disabled people. In the fall, there are 20,000 fewer disabled people in the labour market. This is a sharper reduction than the decline in the population otherwise. Therefore, there is now a need to focus more on measures and mechanisms to ensure disabled participation in the labour market. Today, several projects are being set up to coordinate resources better within Aetate, social security, educational institutions and municipalities. I would specifically like to draw up a project that is going on in Hedmark and Uppland. This project is precisely responsible for setting up measures for all those who have either fallen out of education or working life for various reasons or have major difficulties in entering the labour market. If they are to succeed in this project, it is absolutely crucial that all parties provide administrative personnel with resources. Here you can see not least the task of ensuring that enough administrative resources are allocated to the trials and projects in which Aetat is involved. I hope that the Council of State will clearly signal this to Aetat. In the working party's alternative budget, we proposed the creation of 12,000 new action places. This would have been a positive and good measure for all those outside the labour market. Not least, there would have been a good measure to establish good contact between job seekers and employers. The agreement between the Government Party and the Labour Party resulted in some 6,000 new action places. This is the Labour Party’s satisfaction with, seen in the light of the fact that this issue will be re-examined in the context of the revised national budget next year. The settlement parties are also some to strengthen Aetat with about 110 years' worth of work next year. I find reason to praise the government's party for a good and tidy process in this area, and so that they do not least help to get more serious about the struggle against the growing unemployment. There has been a greater effort through budgetary conciliation to create new jobs, and much more unemployed people will now be provided with training and qualification, which will make it easier for more people to get to work. In the case of intervention sites, it is important that Aetat itself decides on the extent to which different measures are to be used. However, the Labour Party believes that one in today's situation must focus to a greater extent than before on employment measures. I believe it is important to have simple measures without too large and difficult devices to get the best possible effect of the action areas. The Labour Party is opposed to proposals that result in a loss of competitiveness and competence in industry. Through the suggestions made by the Government in St.prp. No 1, we think the situation is getting worse for those who have lost their jobs, for those who are at risk of losing their jobs, and for employers. We have rarely seen proposals that, to those degrees, have mobilized great resistance on all fronts. The Government proposed that the Court should reply as follows: to amend the permit so that employers who wish to perminate one are required to pay the corresponding salary for 30 days before the period becomes insured. Today this period is three days. From all over the country we got a signal from worried employers and employees who think that this would have given more cancellations, loss of competence, and that it would have led to weak conditions of competition. It seemed strange that the government, at a time when labour market challenges are so great, chose to take such unsocial action. There is little sense in overturning large costs into business at a time when many businesses are struggling with adversity. It is also a paradox in terms of the tax policy that this government boasts. This is self-contradictory. The opposition to the proposal to amend the permitting legislation is great from many, including those who have to be considered good friends of the Government. Vice-Chancellor Tor Steig in the NHO said the following to the NRK on 9 October this year: ‘This means that the profitability of enterprises, which receives a payment obligation from 3 to 30 days, is very poor. These companies are going to have to cancel people, instead of permitting them." One of the business leaders who would have had branded strippers permitting rules concretely, is Managing Director Rolf Fischerstrand at Fischerstrand Verft outside Ålesund. He said to the nations on 9 October 2003: ‘The risk to the industry is a loss of competence. From you get a contract until you start working, it has often been 8-10 months. If you do not have the opportunity to permit, but are left with a payroll without work, we have to go to terminations. And then we lose competence, a competence built up through generations." The Labour Party is pleased that, through the budgetary agreement with the Government Party, we have reduced this employer's period by 10 days and that there are still 42 weeks of leave. So we've scared a lot of people from dismissal, and we've also reduced the skills of companies. We don't think this is good enough, but that was the best we could do at this rate. The government proposed a major cut in the 2003 state budget agenda and got a majority in favour of it together with the Progress Party. As a result, the performances were tightened strongly. In addition, much less is required for daily allowance. For us in the Labour Party, it is important that unemployment does not create unnecessary economic problems for those who are affected. So in our alternative budget we went into reintroducing the holiday supplement, increasing the maximum social benefit period from two to three years, reducing the unemployment requirement from 50 to 40 pst. and reduce the number of waiting days from five to three. Looks like my speaking time's over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1246	On Friday December 12th, Telemarksavias held the following position: ‘The economic outlook for the coming years is brighter than for a long time.’ ‘So the downtime is over,’ says TA and refers to figures from the Statistical Central Bureau which confirms that ‘this time the downturn was as deep as it was ten years ago’. With quotes from former Telemark Arbeiderblad in hand, I will state that the government's economic policy is working. The fact that Norway is on its way out of recession, and the return of optimism to business, is largely due to the fact that the Government has pursued a tight budgetary policy, with very low expenditure growth. Such conditions have been facilitated for competitive jobs. This is the background from which the debate on municipal economics must also be seen. In practice, tight budgetary policies mean that the flow of money to municipalities must be limited by the country’s overall economy. For the Right and the Government, it has been important to work for less detailed management of municipalities. This is precisely why this State budget has provided for major system changes in the local government sector. As several have already mentioned in the debate, the 2004 State budget gives the municipalities historic DKK 6.7 billion more than in 2003. This is a growth of the entire 6.1 pst. The investment in the municipal sector is greater than ever before, and the money is certainly included in many municipal offices, especially in the short term. However, if the imbalance in the municipal sector is to be reduced permanently, it will be necessary to recall that it is still essential to have a significant impact on conversion and modernisation, including competitive outsourcing, as the Torbjørn Andersen of the Progress Party said correctly. Looking at their own operations critically will be the responsibility of each municipality. The will of action will be the recipe for success. Willing to act has the Minister of State. A wide range of instruments are being implemented to address the field of immigration and integration. In 2004, the aim is to reduce the number of asylum seekers from 15 000 to 10 000. This doesn't make itself. To achieve this goal, the Government has taken various measures. The first is information measures against foreign stations. The second thing I want to mention is the 48-hour rule for the prompt treatment of suspected groundless asylum seekers, and the shipment that will take place in 72 hours. The third is the cancellation of the so-called pocket money support for those who have been refused their application and who have received the date of departure. The fourth and last thing I want to mention is the most recent measure, the requirement for UDI for a new and restrictive practice in relation to some large groups from specific countries. Such a large reduction in the number would clearly mean action. On average, an asylum seeker costs 108,000 kroner. A reduction of 5000 people will therefore lead to considerable savings in the reception budget. That's what's needed, because the pressure on the receivers is high. Resettlement has once again become a very topical topic. We must recognise that the asylum recipients have come out difficult, because Norwegian municipalities do not accept as many refugees as they need. Today's housing strategy is difficult to fulfil, and the settlement is too late. It is therefore gratifying that a unanimous committee ‘begins the Government as soon as possible to evaluate today’s housing model and to assess new’ forms of ‘housing’, which are to be voluntary for municipalities. 200 people who have received a residence permit are today in reception and are waiting for a yes from a municipality. This must be taken seriously by Kommune-Norge. It is a national responsibility to settle people who have been legally resident here in the country. Integration is a keyword. Fast settlement makes it easier to achieve successful integration, and one has greater chances of success. But it is also a prerequisite that newcomers learn Norwegian and become aware of our laws and regulations, our culture and our social relationships, both those who come under the newly established Introduction Act, and those who fall outside, who have to have a different offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1274	The fight against unemployment is Government priority No. 1 and will still be. Today we have about 90 000 registered unemployed in Norway, and that is 90 000 for many. In addition, we have hundreds of thousands who should be given the opportunity to participate in the world of work, but who don't get the chance. Fortunately, there are now clear signs that the labour market situation is improving. Aetat’s statistics for November show that unemployment is now reduced for the second consecutive month, and the demand for labour, expressed by the number of job vacancies published in the media, also shows an increase. Figures and forecasts from the Statistical Central Bureau reinforce the perception that the economic recovery in the Norwegian economy has now also been reflected in the labour market. If it is also confirmed in the time that comes, the turning point has come a little earlier than the government has founded, and we are very pleased about that. At the same time, we must be clear that the fight against unemployment is a long-term struggle. The main contribution to the long-term struggle is that we are pursuing an economic policy that is generating growth in the Norwegian economy and that at the same time we are pursuing an economic policy that contributes to stability over time. This challenge may be even greater in an upturn than it has been in a recession. Because if we don't now stick to a responsible, unified, long-term monetary and financial policy, the rise we get in the short term can easily lead to an even stronger decline in the long term. For this reason, the government’s budgetary settlement with the Labour Party is important not only to create a basis for increased employment and more jobs in 2004, but to ensure that we actually get a long-term basis for jobs and high employment in Norway. That's why the government is very happy that we've got a collection of the parties that have traditionally been responsible for economic policy. It also means that we have been willing to renovate on more specific measures, such as: the proposal for temporary employment, in order to ensure that the economic framework conditions as a whole become the basis for high employment and low unemployment. Aetat plays a crucial role in the implementation of the part of economic policy specifically concerned with the labour market. In 2003 and 2004, the government totaled funds allocated to several Aetat annual works than any other government has committed for many years. I am very pleased that in the budget agreement there is room for cutbacks that will allow further strengthening of the efforts in Aetat. There is no disagreement between the Government and the Workers' Party on the desirability of strengthening Aetat. But as in the local economy, it's important that space was found for cuts to further strengthen Aetat. We think that's very pleasing. Similarly, we think it is gratifying that there was room for more areas of action, as long as this does not lead to a more expansionary policy than that compatible with the stability of the economy in the longer term. The government will continue to follow the labour market situation closely. We will be particularly concerned with the challenges we face in relation to those who are not the normal unemployed, but the disabled, and others who are not really getting involved today. I have noticed that the Committee wants an overall assessment of the need for action places for people with disabilities, and I will, of course, follow up with pleasure. I have also noticed that the Committee believes there is a need for annual reports showing the situation of people with disabilities in the labour market. Although I am not necessarily sure that annual reports are the best solution, it will also be followed up. In any case, it is important that we regularly monitor the situation and opportunities of people with disabilities and the obstacles to them in the labour market. And if Stortinget wants annual reports, Stortinget will of course get it. Once again, as I have done earlier from this pulpit, I would like to thank the Workers' Party for contributing through the budget agreement to the implementation of changes in the laws that strengthen the implementation process, and which make it much earlier to be assessed in relation to a course of damage and disease than has been the case up to now. The most important thing to ensure that people outside the labour market actually have a real chance of returning is that absence from the labour market becomes as short-lived as possible. It is reflected in the way in which the Government implements action programmes for the ordinary unemployed. Similarly, we need to address the work for the disabled, which is now being done through the changes that have taken place in the re-entry legislation. I want to thank the Workers' Party for that too. The government has as clear a goal that we should give as much chance as possible in the labour market. I note both from the committee's position and from the debate that there is a broad consensus on that objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1301	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1304	There were a lot of gratitude to the Labour Party in the inauguration of the Council of State, and that's good. It shows that we can actually do things that are good for the country and for the health. I have a question associated with Aetat. Aetat is gradually transferring more and more tasks to private operators in the labour market. I can refer to the projects CAT and FALSE as an example of that. The Labour Party believes that Aetat should be the primary instrument of labour market policy, and neither should Aetat be upset. We are particularly sceptical that it can be opened up to private actors in the distribution part of Aetat. Therefore, my question becomes to the Council of State: Are there plans for private actors to take over more of the responsibility for dissemination in Aetat, and what kind of visions does the Council of State have for Aetat in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1311	One minute's line is hardly the place to draw up the visions of Aetat in the future, but let me briefly answer the question. We believe that Aetat should be the jobseeker's office, be a service provider and ensure that jobseekers receive the services needed to easily return to work. In addition, we believe that Aetat should use the other actors present in society to the extent that it helps to improve the supply for job seekers. This means, among other things: that it must be fully possible for Aetat to use private intermediaries, if it provides a better offer for job seekers than whether Aetat should do the job itself. In any case, it is important in Aetat's work that the establishment clearly distinguishes between the role of a service provider and that of the jobseekers, and the role that may be played in terms of dissemination. And it's now that the Storting has come to the conclusion that Aetat is not going to throw itself out and carry on commercial communication, and then Aetat has to use the actors that are actually in that market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1318	Of course, it is gratifying that the Council of State says that the fight against unemployment is a high priority in the Government. We have over 100,000 unemployed, and it's been like this lately that the unemployment rates are luckily showing a somewhat decreasing trend. There is optimism in business, and this is of course also a very good contribution to reducing unemployment in Norway. Now it is probably the case that we in Norway have been deprived of leave. Other countries have had a much higher percentage of the labour force available than we have been accustomed to in Norway. It might be interesting to ask the Council of State, when unemployment is now falling, whether he has a concrete view of how much it is in his opinion, based on what is now happening in industry and in the labour market, it is realistic to assume that unemployment can decrease in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1325	It would probably be interesting to get speculation about it. Now the government in the budget has made predictions for the development of the labour market, so I think I'll leave this speech to myself. But the problem we should all be concerned with is to avoid what has happened in previous periods, where, after a period of high unemployment, there has been a reduction to a level higher than the level that you had last had so-called low unemployment. There has been a tendency that the level of so-called low unemployment in Norway has shifted upwards over time. It has to do with the structure of the labour market, it has to do with the provisions of the Labour Environment Act, and it has to do with the way in which the dissemination system in Norway is organised. And the measures proposed by the Government, both in terms of changes in Aeta's approach and changes in legislation, are aimed at avoiding that when unemployment is now falling, it is to a higher level than what we had last had low unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1332	If we are to get back in more of those who are out of the labour market today and who have been expelled there because of ill health, there must be a working life that has room for them. It is then important that we ensure that companies do not be allowed to compete between themselves for bad and dangerous work. When you go in and investigate, it's a fact that there's a lot of undeclared work and a lot of health-threatening work, and that there's a lot that makes the serious companies have no chance of competing with the unprofessional ones. That's the way it is today. And we know that this is part of what makes many of those who have difficulties in the labour market, for example. disabled persons, who have no access to them, because they are not able to compete under such illegal conditions. And the state budget is quite free from new measures to address this, despite the fact that we know that it is, and that more and more people drop out of work every year because of ill health. For example, what will the Council of State do? in relation to the Labour Inspectorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1337	It's not just a disabled person who gets hurt if we have a lot of black work and a lot of work that's harmful to health. It is also the most professionally healthy person who gets injured if that happens. That is why the work to monitor and stop work that is both black and dangerous to health is one of the main priorities of the Labour Inspectorate, who is doing a very good job in this area in close cooperation with, among others. the police, and will continue to do so. Moreover, when it comes to ensuring that we generally have health-promoting, inclusive jobs, the main instruments are positive instruments, not negative ones. Therefore, in the context of the question of renewal of the Memorandum of Understanding on a more inclusive working life, the Government has given decisive emphasis to the commitment of the parties to facilitate the situation also for the disabled and to give equal priority to the other objectives of the Memorandum of Understanding than those relating to sick leave. And I am very pleased that we have come to a declaration together with the social partners that the stronger priority of the labour market opportunities of people with disabilities is a key point.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1344	The center party thinks there's a much greater need for more people to have the opportunity to get work, and I'm going to list three areas. Firstly, one billion more dollars for transport would bring business together and lower costs for many industries, while making use of both available equipment and available skills. Secondly, when it comes to the disabled, the Council of State says that he will follow developments closely, but that is not good enough! He can't be content with the effort when there are about 20,000 more disabled people without work now than for one year ago. Thirdly, when it comes to the municipal sector, will I challenge the Council of State on what he is doing to ensure that several of those who currently make up a large reserve of labour because the number of sub-positions is increasing so enormously, can get full-time jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1355	Of course, we do much more than follow developments in the case of people with disabilities. We have more disabled workers on special labour market measures now than ever before. We have renegotiated the intention agreement on a more inclusive working life just to make the parties, businesses and organisations more responsible in relation to the job that needs to be done in the workplace, if people are actually going to get a job. It does not help to say here that it is important for people with disabilities to get away with work unless they are allowed to do so by working life. We can qualify disabled people, we can help them out, but it's companies and organizations locally that actually have to do a job to get them out of it, and that's why it's our main priority in renewing the commitment agreement. Otherwise, one billion more kroner for transportation would clearly give more jobs. But if it was a counterpart cut somewhere else, it would disappear as many jobs there, and if it wasn't a counterpart cut somewhere else, we would build up under the heat of the Norwegian economy and thereby undermine the jobs in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1362	Let me first reassure the Council of State that, to the extent that there has been a broad agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government on the financial and monetary policy frameworks throughout this period. Disagreement on the device, yes, it's okay, but there's been an agreement on the frames. I am pleased that the budget agreement has agreed on some more measures for the unemployed – not enough, but a clearly stronger effort than the underlying ones. Measures to prevent unemployment may not be seen only within the territory of the Ministry of Labour. One problem is the production of unemployed people through problems, among other things. in large parts of the economy. The budget agreement mentions the situation in Årdal and Høyanger. In my own home area, we see significant problems in parts of the fishing industry, and we can mention other industries. Does the Council of State need more offensive efforts to prevent these problems in this type of industry from developing into unemployment than we have seen so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1373	I'm not going to comment on relationships in individual industries. There are always some industries which may require special measures under special conditions. What is generally important in Norway to prevent problems in business – and I am absolutely sure that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen agrees with me – is that we have a framework that allows Norwegian business to generally be competitive internationally. It is clear that action is required far beyond the remit of the Minister of Labour. It requires a good budgetary policy, it requires a good monetary policy, not least that we get into a income policy that means that we are able to keep wage and cost developments under control in general in Norway. All these things mean in some cases more for Norwegian business than what we can manage to do with specific support measures or development measures related to individual industries. I think we all agree that there may be a need for other measures on a regional basis and in relation to certain specific industries. But I think we should leave that to the Minister of Industry, the Minister of Fisheries and others to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-15.ana.ud2008e1379	So the chord change is over. According to the decision of the Storting earlier today, the meeting is now suspended and will be resumed at 9 p.m. 16:00.
