ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18-lower.ana.ud587e34	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18-lower.ana.ud587e39	I'd like to suggest Heidi Grande Røys.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18-lower.ana.ud587e44	Heidi Grande Røys has been proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Grande Røys is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18-lower.ana.ud587e58	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 10 minutes to the rapporteur on the matter and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18-lower.ana.ud587e63	There is a collective justice that stands behind the Government's proposal for a new law on design, which will replace the 1970 law on patterns. The legislative proposal has been produced in Nordic cooperation and involves a general modernisation of pattern legislation. A central objective is to harmonise legislation with developments at European and international level, primarily with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the legal protection of patterns incorporated into the EEA Agreement. The Pattern Act and the new Design Act make it possible to obtain exclusive rights to new designs for a limited period of time. Such design or design right shall provide the holder with the basis for refusing to exploit the design during the period of protection. The idea behind the law is to motivate innovation. The design right may increase the yield so that the development costs are recovered and the company receives a reasonable profit. The development of new design can thus be more attractive, while countering the socio-economic unlucky duplication of work. It will be easier to finance the development of the external capital injection because the lenders will be more confident that the enterprise will be able to operate the loan. Furthermore, the intangible assets of a company will be included in the valuation of the company and make it more attractive to invest in the company. The importance of design is not limited to Norwegian enterprises. With an international giant like Sony, it's a matter of course that all the competitors can make the same good products. The only thing that separates one product from another in the market is design. To survive, businesses need to develop a design strategy as an integral part of brand construction. The design then becomes the brand in many ways. Therefore, it is absolutely essential that long-term design is worked on in the business world. Therefore, it is also important that Stortinget adopts a law that protects the design during the lifetime of the product. Its greater resources business invests in design, its greater chance of success and its greater reason for protecting the law. By replacing the design law with a new design law, there is a general modernisation of legislation in this area, which is in line with the social development that has taken place since the 1970s when the pattern law was adopted. These changes will, in the Committee's view, be more adapted to the needs of users and society today. I want to explain here the main changes to the bill in relation to the pattern law. The government proposes to simplify, clarify and modernise the use of language in model legislation and therefore proposes that the word ‘design’ be used instead of ‘pattern’ as the name of what can be protected under the law. A comprehensive committee supports the proposal and believes that design is a more comprehensive concept of what can be protected by law. As mentioned in the proposition, today’s term ‘pattern’ gives associations to knitting recipes and the like, even if the law includes cars, boats, textiles and tools. The Committee agrees with the Government that design will provide greater consistency between the daily understanding of the word and what is protected by law than is the case today. The proposal for extended content allowing the protection of the appearance of a part of a product, graphic design and typographical font documents is also an argument for changing the design designation. Design is also a terminology with which users are more familiar – design is widely used in daily speech, such as: industrial design and graphic design, both at the audience and in the business world. The Committee also supports the Government’s proposal to adorn the terms and conditions of design protection. It will include, among others: the ability to test a product on the market before submitting an application for design protection. This also opens up new opportunities for further development and improvement and will be very useful for many designers, taking into account the costs associated with the registration of design rights. As regards the proposal for provisions on the content, scope and duration of the design right, they are based on the provisions of the Directive. Under the Model Act, a total term of protection of 15 years can be achieved. The Directive requires a maximum period of protection to be extended to 25 years. The Committee would express some scepticism about extending the term of protection to 25 years, including: for consumer and competition policy reasons. However, the Committee takes note that this is a consequence of the directive and that we are therefore obliged to follow this up in Norwegian legislation. The purpose of the Design Act is to stimulate new designs that can be of pleasure and benefit to the consumer and society elsewhere. The possibility of protection may be a prerequisite for some to be willing to take the risks and costs associated with development work. A design right, on the other hand, provides a time-limited legal monopoly. This monopoly alone constitutes a restriction of competition as long as it exists. This can be socially acceptable because overall the result is increased competition and needs coverage – the total product range is increasing. As also stated in the proposal, there is a regulatory challenge in finding the right balance between intellectual and general competitive considerations, in order to maximise the overall benefits for society. In recent years, this issue of design law has been discussed in particular in relation to the protection of spare parts for cars. This is a market with high turnover and high economic value, but the issue also applies to other types of spare parts. The issue of the design protection of spare parts was controversial in the preparation of the EU model directive. The Model Directive contains certain specific rules for such parts. This Directive allows countries to maintain their national provisions on ingredients used to repair a composite product in order to restore its original appearance. States may weaken, but may not strengthen, the protection of spare parts in comparison with the law in force. The EU did not agree on a definitive solution to this problem, and comes back to the question following an analysis by autumn 2004 and any amendments following consultations by autumn 2005. The Directive will restrict the possibility of the design protection of spare parts compared to Norwegian law. Those provisions have been proposed in the draft law. However, the Committee believes that further liberalisation of the law in relation to the EU Directive could lead to increased competition, which benefits consumers. Following a thorough evaluation, the Committee is committed to reducing the protection period for spare parts from 15 years to 5 years, and is promoting proposals in line with this. With legislation to protect spare parts for 3 x 5 years, such as today, there are very few incentives for starting the production of alternative parts. Of course, the need for protection will not arise until production has started. The alternative parts produced and used today are available despite today’s design law. That is, those who have now applied for design protection for 5 years, before today's date, will only have the opportunity to get 5 years. They won't be able to get any new protection tomorrow. Of course, there is a point that there is not a high consumption of alternative parts in insurance repairs. Unfortunately there are no volume numbers, but the situation is that used parts are also used if available. This is particularly relevant for slightly older cars with a high value for use and low economic value, so that the alternative to expensive original parts is condensation. This applies not least to repairs made by consumers at their own expense. The strong monopoly situation of car manufacturers with regard to the distribution of cars and spare parts is the background to the abolition of the block exemption for car manufacturers, but this is also the background to the Commission’s proposal that spare parts should also have a much lower protection period than before. This was not implemented at this stage, but the competitive situation of spare parts will be reviewed in 2005. There is also a point that many repairs will be done with original parts during the so-called warranty period. The withdrawal of the block exemption will allow the use of alternative components, but they must be of a quality according to a technical specification set by the manufacturers. This specification will not be more stringent than requirements for own deliveries, but it would be much more convenient for manufacturers to design to protect the parts in order to avoid competition. An argument that's being used is Nordic equality. There is no basis for having this as an independent measure when the spare parts are 30 pst. cheaper in Sweden. Sweden has its own car production that helps to keep prices down, while we should only have a functional regulatory framework to protect consumers’ interests. In addition, we note that the Geneva Agreement will have its agreement here in this process, if not for a long time, because it has been dealt with in the Foreign Affairs Committee. The Geneva agreement is fully in line with the legislation that we are now adopting with regard to design law. The Geneva Agreement will simplify the application process for registration of designs abroad and will also likely entail reduced costs for Norwegian designers and companies in product development.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18-lower.ana.ud587e121	The rapporteur has carefully reviewed the changes we are making in the law on the legal protection of the appearance of products, namely the design law. The aim of the law is to stimulate the development of aesthetic and functional good products. This is gratifying both for the consumer and for society. The changes we are making today will contribute to modernisation and also provide a more rational and effective law. In this way, it will be more adapted to the needs of users in today's and future societies. Legislation in this area has been characterised by Nordic cooperation and international conventions. We are now making changes to harmonise legislation on developments at European and international level, primarily through the EU Council Directive on the legal protection of patterns, which is now incorporated into the EEA Agreement. As the rapporteur, the Committee is unanimous on all points. However, I would like to comment on one point, namely the issue of the design protection of spare parts. The Committee is opposed to recommendations from the Ministry, which cover a term of protection of 15 years. Instead, the Committee proposes a 5-year term of protection for spare parts. This issue was also controversial during the examination of the EU model directive. It therefore opens up the possibility for countries to maintain their national provisions. This means that States may weaken, but not strengthen, the protection of spare parts, as compared to the existing law, so that when the Committee now accepts a proposal to amend the law from a period of protection of 15 years to 5 years, it is within the framework of the law by which we are obliged under the EEA Agreement. As said, the Committee proposes that the period of protection for spare parts should be changed from 15 to 5 years. This is based on consumer considerations and on ensuring the possibility of competition. A protection that lasts for 15 years will in reality mean total protection of spare parts. We know that in Norway, every five cars get involved in a collision every year. If you buy original parts, you can also assume that these are approx. 30-50 pst. more expensive than non-original. The consequence of this is that the spare parts become expensive, it matters how long it is profitable to repair a car, sail if the car has a significantly longer life. This will therefore lead to the car being rejected at an earlier time than is necessary. We therefore believe that it is unwise for energy use not only from an ecological point of view, but also from an economic perspective to have an excessive protection period on spare parts. To this end, the Committee proposes to amend the legislation in this area from 15 to 5 years, namely in the interests of consumers and the costs related, inter alia, to: the insurance, in order to ensure competition and also from an ecological point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18-lower.ana.ud587e134	Norwegian industry and industry maintain a very high international standard. We can't always compete on price, but often our products are chosen on the basis of quality, customisation and form. The form of products – or their design – is an increasingly important competitive advantage. The consumer’s interest in design may be greater than the focus on the other qualities of the product. Just that makes focus on design important for both politicians and business. Industry is focussing on the development of new design. But for our industry to grow, and for us to keep our industrial jobs, we need further investment in this area. Norwegian product developers must take seriously the competitive advantage of good design. The government has arranged for this, among other things. through the proposed new design law. The Design Act grants the design right holder a time-limited right to refuse to exploit the design. We want to stimulate the development of aesthetic and functional good products, to the joy of both consumers and society. Therefore, through the bill, the Government has to some extent strengthened the protection of the designer’s rights. This is important to motivate innovation. The ability to obtain design protection may be a prerequisite for anyone being willing to take the risks and costs associated with development work. A slightly extended right to design protection may therefore result in a larger range of products. Such an effect of the law will directly benefit consumers. The proposed changes in design legislation are well adapted to the needs of industry and consumers today. The copyright is characterised by Nordic cooperation and is inspired by international conventions. It has therefore been necessary to harmonise the design legislation with that of other countries. The Christian People's Party believes that cooperation on copyright law across borders is important. There is a need for equality between Norwegian and foreign actors in this area, which is, of course, strongly influenced by international competition. The Design Act allows design protection for mass-produced goods as well as for craft products. Functional design can in principle also be recorded on the same line of design that appeals to the aesthetic sense. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that legislation follows as far as possible technical progress and social development, and we are pleased that the Government's proposal for a new design law takes such considerations into account. It is also positive that the terms of design protection are somewhat relaxed in the proposal for a new law, in relation to today’s model legislation. Consumers are at the heart of the Christian People's Party. Furthermore, free competition is important in the interests of reasonable prices. On this basis, we have been skeptical about legislating a term of protection for design for 25 years. However, the consideration of legal equality vis-à-vis our main trading partners has led us to support the proposal for a 25-year term of protection. The Christian People's Party believes that five years of protection for spare parts is sufficient. A shorter period of protection for spare parts than for other products is appropriate both in the interests of consumers and in the interests of maximum competition in the spare part market and is consistent with the developments we see internationally. The government incorporates the bill into procedural procedures that protect the rights of the design applicant in the application process. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is important that the law protects the rights of the designer as much as possible, thus helping to strengthen and develop Norwegian design in a hard international competition. It is with joy Christian People's Party that it gives its support to the position of the Judicial Committee on new design laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18-lower.ana.ud587e160	The purpose of the new design law is to strengthen the rights of designers and thus stimulate product development. A good legal framework is important to make Norwegian design-oriented industry competitive. The Judicial Committee has largely adhered to the Ministry of Justice's legislative proposals. I am pleased with this. When there are many products on the market, the design often determines which product a consumer chooses. Many companies therefore spend a lot of time and money giving products a user-friendly and attractive design. For example, the Norwegian furniture industry has spent a lot of time on design for many years. We also see that awareness of good design is growing in other industries. The Design Act allows an exclusive right to a new design for a limited period of time. As the Judicial Committee points out, protection against copying may be a prerequisite for some being willing to bear the costs of development work. The law thus motivates innovation so that the total range of products can be increased. This is for the benefit of both consumers and society elsewhere. The new law is partly based on an EU directive and has become part of Nordic cooperation. This ensures Norwegian activities the same framework conditions as foreign competitors. I appreciate the fact that the Justice Committee explicitly supports the continuation of international cooperation in intellectual property. The Design Act replaces the pattern law of 1970 and involves modernisation in several respects. It will include, among others: the ability to protect graphical design in electronic form. It is also possible to test products on the market for up to 12 months before applying for design protection. These changes have been requested by many designers, and I have noticed that the Justice Committee is also in favour of the changes. It follows from the EU Directive that the maximum duration of design protection needs to be increased from 15 to 25 years, but not for spare parts. The Judicial Committee has a good point in pointing out that 25 years of protection will often exceed the real life of the product on the market. This reduces the importance of increasing the duration of protection. For spare parts, the Ministry proposed that the protection should last for up to 15 years, such as today, for example. justified by the fact that there are not very many parts covered. However, I take note of the fact that, for its part, the Judicial Committee has proposed a term of protection of 5 years and therefore does not agree with the department's assessment. The new design law also modernises the rules of procedure. The compulsory application news review is abolished. In addition, an administrative review system is introduced. As a result, it will be faster to get design protection. In return, it will be easier to cancel an invalid registration afterwards. This makes the system more flexible. There seems to be a broad political consensus that the new law is an improvement compared to today's model law. It is both more user-friendly and better adapted to society's needs. I hope that the new rules together will strengthen Norwegian companies involved in product development.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18-lower.ana.ud587e181	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18-lower.ana.ud587e197	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 419]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18-lower.ana.ud587e205	Odelstinget then goes to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18-lower.ana.ud587e1195	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18-lower.ana.ud587e1205	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18-lower.ana.ud587e1315	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18-lower.ana.ud587e1325	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18-lower.ana.ud587e1336	There is no record available.
