ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e47	Three permit applications are available: by the delegation of the European Parliament to the 108th Conference of the Interparliamentary Union in Santiago, Chile, an application is submitted, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Karin Andersen. The application shall be valid from 7 April to 11 April for the representative of Ola T. Lånke, and from 8 April to 11 April for the representatives of Karin Andersen, Svein Roald Hansen, Thore A. Nistad, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Finn Martin Vallersnes from the representative of André Kåkkestad, for the period from 9 April to 11 April for the attendance of meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Malta from the representative of Rune J. Skylaaaen, for the period from 9 April to 11 April. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first representative of the Eastfold County, Ane Sofie Tmärås, is currently abroad and, for that reason, prevented from meeting in the Stortinge from 8 April to 11 April under the authority of the representative Svein Roald Hansen. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Akershus County: Harald Espelund For Hedmark County: Helge Bjørnsen For Hordaland County: Mali Grete Neergaard Aksnes For Uppland County: Morten Ørsal Johansen For Rogaland County: Inger Lise Aarrestad and Jan Petter RasmussenFor South-Trendelag County: Tora Husan For Eastfold County: Morten Olsen2. Mali Grete Neergaard Aksnes, Morten Ørsal Johansen and Morten Olsen are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Rune J. Skylaaen, Thore A. Nistad and Svein Roald Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e124	The representative, Karin S. Woldseth, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e127	I will, on behalf of Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself, propose a system for the rental of art and cultural-historical objects.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e132	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e146	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to each group and 10 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e155	The setting we are considering today, if St.meld. No 4 for 2002–03 is about the follow-up of the Government’s call and distribution decisions from the Stortinget from the previous major session. In the previous staging session, 140 appeal decisions were taken and no distribution decisions were taken. Up to now in the in-house landfill session, 135 such appeal decisions have been taken here in the hall. So we can say that the number of appeal decisions is at the same high level as that which has been common over the last three to four years. The principle of appeal decisions is clear. It's a political outburst from the populous majority, and so it's a political marshall from the Storting to the Government. A call for proposals is a political journey that has been and is being shipped and shaped gradually, through the development of constitutional practice. Decision-making may be seen as a relatively ‘soft form of instruction’, compared with more formal rules and instructions for the Government by legislative decision, budgetary decision, lien rules, the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy osb. The main rule on how the Government is to comply with the invitation to tender shall not be in doubt as to whether they should be followed up after the size of their decisions and within the time limits set by the Stortinget. This is the whole committee agreed on. And even though the committee has divided into a multiple and a minority in the way this is referred to, we don't have to make the differences bigger than they really are. We who make the minority in the committee at this point, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, have shown that this is a general rule. We have also shown a number of retentions that must be taken, and as there is a long practice of being taken by different governments, regardless of the party. First of all, a good part of the appeal decisions is unclearly formulated. I'm here to show you that this observation is also made by a coherent Frøiland selection. The selection also states that: ‘As a general rule, the legal effect of the Storting decision should be interpreted in a restrictive way. A decision should not be considered to impose specific obligations unless it is clearly stated in the wording and history that it is intended to do so. Uncertainty in this interpretation should affect the majority that has taken the decision.’» Secondly, a series of appeal decisions have economic and administrative implications when they are to be followed up, consequences that neither the Stortinget nor the Government always have a full overview of when the decision is taken. It has therefore been a long and firm practice for the Government to come back to the budget budget with the necessary promises, together with assessments of the impact of the decision, for example. where applicable, the need for legislative changes. In some cases, in the light of a tight budgetary situation, alternate governments have also chosen not to provide the necessary permissions to implement an action, possibly suspending the proposal for a licence. The majority of the population has so far seemed to accept this as necessary to bring about the soundness of policy. In the comments from the plural, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party, it seems that one will now go away from being able to do so. Yes, not only that, but now a change in the principle of what is sufficient follow-up with retroactive force – mid-sleep, so to speak. That's how I mean that part of the criticism the opposition has gathered in individual matters, comes in a strange light. Personally, I must say that I am curious about this when it comes to the Labour Party. This batch should have government position experience in fresh memory. A quick review of the two releases of St.meld. No 4 as the Stoltenberg government presented also shows that it is quite far from the Workers' Party's practice in the position of the Workers' Party's doctrine and principle in opposition. The trust value problem must be up to the working party to solve itself. The important thing in this case, and we're all agreed on, is that there should in any case be explicit mention and follow-up of appeal decisions. If the Government chooses to postpone implementation, or proposes to fulfill its intentions in some other way, I would like to state that it will have to be shown both for the call decision and for the Government's follow-up, so that the Storting can correct the course. And if you don't see yourself able to follow up, well, the government can make proposals for decisions that cancel the original decision. That's the law, and that's the way it has to be. I would also like to mention that a joint committee refers to the Frøiland Committee's report and that we will soon have this report discussed in the Committee and in the Stortinget. In this context, I hope that we can discuss ourselves even closer to each other, in order to be as clear as possible about the rules that will apply in the future to the relationship between government and accumulation. I would also like to briefly illustrate the principle I have mentioned so far, by going into some of the issues in the setting. Let me first draw up the two decisions relating to the Ministry of Industry, where the government party in the setting has shown that a person would wait for the matter of the instrument, which would come from the Government. Saka, St.prp. No 51, was made last Friday, 28 March, so it's now possible to say a little bit more about what we think about the follow-up to these decisions. Decision No. 435 is, after what I can see, followed up in the proposition. But on Decision No. 430, about new and nationwide seed funds, I'd like to say a little more. It appears that the follow-up has been postponed or delayed, and that the Government will come back with current proposals at the latest in the submission to the 2004 government budget. Here the Ministry of Economic Affairs, if one were to go all the way after the book, both referred to the decision, should have clearly informed that the follow-up had been postponed, and given a time for the follow-up to happen. At this point I know, from the debate on St.meld. No 4 a.m., that the Prime Minister shares my opinion. So I expect the Prime Minister to take this signal back, so that the departments will inculcate that the follow-up to the appeal decisions should be explicitly mentioned, late at the time they were supposed to have been carried out, and preferably as early as possible. If one had followed the new principle that the opposition majority would like to introduce in the Committee, the Government also had to submit a proposal that Decision 430 be repealed or, where appropriate, another new proposal to extend the deadline for the follow-up. But from our point of view, we think that a clear reference to the follow-up and the delay would have been sufficient. So to the question of a special state top funding for resource-requiring users, under the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, Decision No. Fifty-three. Here, in fact, the opposition states that it would not have been sufficient to make a formal proposal for a year's postponement in the 2003 municipal bill. Since this, as far as I can see, is contrary to the general comment on the handling of such cases, on page 2, I choose to interpret this as an incurrency and assume that it is the general comment that should apply. In this case, in my view, the government has done exactly what it should do. She has referred to the decision in paragraph 1. 7.1 in the municipal bill, and it's been done very clearly for what the government will do to follow things up. Here is a matter to be answered, so that the solution is one year late, and it was clearly informed about this. Resources were also set for a temporary solution in 2003. It is also quite clear that the Stortinget has taken this information into account, because in June the Stortinget actually made a new decision, which, according to its content, also repeals the old, easy decision No. 554, with the votes of the Government Party and the Advance Party. I therefore do not understand what the opposition, and especially the Labour Party and the Advance Party, is not satisfied with when it applies to the process around this Decision. With this in mind, I would like to recommend that the vote be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e213	Both the presentation and the examination of how the Government has followed up the Grand Duchy's request and investigation decisions are an important matter in a democratic perspective. Some of the strength of Nordic democracies has been that the debates and decisions taken in the open forums have been perceived as real, concrete and should form the basis for follow-up. It has made most people very confident that our political institutions should be able to complete the tasks they are assigned by the population through elections. And so it has to be. The alternative to this would be that the Storting could be seen as a resolutionist, who takes decisions – I'm sorry to say – cabin and torment, as it was up to the administration and government to decide whether or not to follow up. If this happens, it will mean a fleeting of Norwegian policies and in the long term lead to a loss of confidence in the population. For this reason, there is a special responsibility for the thoroughness of the investigations and assessments to be carried out before a decision is taken by the Stortinget and the Government to the extent that it is reasonably certain that the decisions represent not only a wish of a political majority but are also feasible. In a situation of minority governments, of course, it may be so, especially when the government's parliamentary basis is not clear enough through agreements in the Storting, that one will come into a situation where the Storing has more ambitions than the Government feels able to follow up. It is then important that the Stortinget, both within its Rules of Procedure and through its proceedings, ensure that it does not resort to arbitrary proposals for decisions, such as: The Commission's proposals, while providing the basis for the decisions taken, provide for a thorough examination in committee and for a follow-up to this process in debates at the main hall, in which the members of the Government are also present. It should ensure that the Government should have reasonable grounds to keep up to date with the political process, the political debate, and be well aware of the reality of the individual proposals. If the Government is of the opinion that any of the proposals adopted in the Storting should not have been adopted because they are not feasible, then the government and the Council of State are obliged to notify in the Chamber that they cannot be followed up, with the consequences it should have. In a parliamentary system and in a constitutional democracy, it has to be almost like this. So it's not impossible that from time to time the assumptions change. It could be the economic assumptions that apply in the country, or we could have other conditions that change, which makes it almost impossible to fully follow the decision of the Great Britain. Then it is my opinion that there is an obligation on the Government as soon as possible when it becomes clear that it is impossible to follow the decision of the Storting, to come back to the Storing with proposals for decisions on changes. I repeat that I believe it is absolutely necessary in a democracy based on elections and democracy, that the people can be confident that the decisions taken by the Stortinge are real and that they will be followed up. Then there's a question about how the government is going to follow this up with the Storting, and how to give feedback. The opposition also realises that it may require a little longer time from time to time than the Storing has foreseen to have the decisions implemented. I think the Stortinget will have general respect for that if you get feedback on how the Government has intended the follow-up to take place. But failing to report back or just let the proposals slip, in the hope that they might disappear in the big forgetbook, will, in my opinion, be totally unacceptable. That is why it is so important that the Stortinge get this document, not only for itself, but also for the Government, so that, at regular intervals, in cooperation with the committees we have in Stortinge, a position can be taken by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs to decide on the various proposals. With these general comments, I certainly feel that there is no need to address the individual proposals and comments in the case. Here, there are relatively clear majority comments that we're considering being followed up. I would also like to end by saying that the Frøiland Committee has a wide-ranging discussion on the request and investigation decisions. The size will hopefully deal with the follow-up of the Frøiland Committee during this session. There, on a more general basis, we will go through the various aspects associated with this. What I am afraid of, however, is that in principle they are seeking to weaken the constitutional status of the request decisions. This will result in the Storting making more Roman number decisions, and then, in my opinion, you get the opposite of what you want. There must be no doubt that the request decisions are a mild form of instruction to the Government that must be followed up. I expect that on this basis we will return to a good part of the principal aspects of the request and investigation decisions in connection with the suspension by the Frøiland Committee. So in conclusion, I would recommend the proposal for a decision by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs and the majority comments that are the basis for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e234	The main point that the Stortinget takes different decisions is naturally enough to implement and achieve the more or less clear, realistic goals and thoughts of the different large-scale numbers at all times. As mentioned above, there is no doubt about the general rule on how the Government should deal with the request decisions. They shall be followed up in accordance with the stipulations of the Storing and to the time limits set by the Storing. This is a logical general rule and an absolutely necessary general rule in a democracy like ours, which was also the subject of the representative, Kosmo. Respected promises don't seem exactly to be what politicians connect most with. Here we are at the heart of what this is all about, respect for political processes. Policy is to want, but above all also to implement. Implementing reforms and improvements for most people is the goal of all parties when they adopt their programmes, when we adopt decisions on this and hints here, and when different governments are to implement proposals for which they themselves have been given a majority, or the Storing of their own initiative has taken decisions. A unanimous committee says on page 2 of the setting: ‘The Committee refers to the fact that the Ministry has followed up the Committee’s observations that if the first communication following a decision indicates that the Government will subsequently follow up the decision, the next communication must specify that.’ Isolatedly, when you read this sentence, it seems that a unanimous committee agrees that a somewhat more flexible practice than the crystal-clear general rule to which it is added here should also be preferred for the future, i.e. the continuation of today's practice. It has good reasons for itself, as the rapporteur was in the Chamber. In the beginning, I said that the main point of the Stortinget making different decisions is, of course, to implement and realize the more or less clear and realistic goals and thoughts of the different large-scale numbers at all times. It is not surprising that neither magnification nor government has traditionally been the best fortune-tellers, at least not the quick variation of them, nor the best to come up with bench proposals. The reality is usually more complicated than what is printed on paper after the Committees in hui and haste issue cases. It is reflected in the fact that the follow-up of the request decisions to the people and businesses they deal with is not as rapid and straightforward to implement. This has been the foundation of the Workers' Party until recently. I have a few examples that I would like to ask for a comment on, to the extent that it is a change of principle from the Labour Party. It's from the representative of Kosmo's Council of State. On 15 June 2001, the Stortinget decided to ask the Government to ‘present a plan to increase labour supply in the context of the 2002 State Budget’. Such a plan was never presented, but it was shown that the national budget should provide the Storting with a good information base on the government's work to increase labour supply. On the same day, 15 June 2001, the Stortinget Government asked ‘to present a review of the practice of liaison between the Ministry and the Competition Authority and proposals for legislation on this contact for the future in the context of the 2002 State Budget’. In the draft budget, it was stated by the Ministry that, in the Ministry's view, no such guidance is needed. For the parties to the government, the answers here are all right, because that is the practice that has been followed so far. But my question to the representative Kosmo is: what is the material difference between these two examples of what today seems to be a lack of follow-up to the request decision, from the past? Is it the case that the Labour Party has changed its position in principle, even though it is now said in previous articles that you have not done so, or is it such that you admit that you might have been a little bit more «on the edge» in 2001? Or is it simply such that the majority position today is situation-determined?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e252	The review of the notification of requests and investigation decisions gives some of us an opportunity to reflect on the number of decisions taken by the Stortinget and the level of detail of these decisions. I understand, in isolation, when one sits and implements some of these decisions, that sometimes it may seem that the Storting has gone out on deep water. But it's not, at least not within our political system, any higher powers you can invoke than those in this room. I believe that an explicit response from the Stortinget to the follow-up to its decisions, possibly an explicit request for a new decision if the decision cannot be implemented, is also essential if the Stortinget is to take a form and a quantity of request and investigation decisions that are actually – to say – appropriate and feasible over time. We also find in this big message examples that the Government has done just that when, for example: The Ministry of Justice explicitly requests a new decision on the rates of free legal aid when it is not found to have a budgetary framework. I don't think this practice should be so difficult to follow up. Then there are some decisions where the Storting comes with deadlines. Then I will refer to what has been said earlier that if the Storting premises unrealistically according to the government's view when a decision is taken, it is absolutely necessary that the government tell us about this. This is why, among other things: in relation to the issue of top finance for particularly resource-intensive users, we are in favour of the comments we have. It becomes a little problematic when you first come back on the day of the deadline and say, "Oh, sorry, but this was unfortunately not possible." It is clear that it will always be a difficult balance to say when one really realized that a decision could not be implemented. It may well be that you have tried well until the last deadline. At the same time, I have such great confidence in the Government and the apparatus they have to help themselves with, that I believe that it is in a reasonable time to be able to see where it is going when it comes to implementing a decision. We can discuss back and forth what has been practice. However, I have no doubt that practice must be that a decision should be implemented or that a proposal for a new decision should be made. We must not get into the situation that there are decisions that are not implemented and that that is okay. In that case, I believe that some of the things I have always understood would be broken by practice in our parliamentary system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e263	I think debates on constitutional issues and the relationship between big business and government are important and interesting. I would therefore also like to say a few words about this. I am pleased to point out that on most points there is broad support for the government's follow-up to the various decisions. But I think it is useful that every government has a vigilance on the part of Stortinget, and that one should report to Stortinget about how a follow-up decision is taken. For my part, I fully agree with the statement by the representative, Mr Kosmo, that requests should be respected and not be included in the forgotten book. The Rules of Procedure therefore provide for the Government to submit an annual notification on the follow-up to the decisions on the aggregates containing a request to the Government and on the examination of private proposals submitted to the Government for examination and opinion. This provision was adopted as late as May 1999 and is therefore a relatively new system. On the framework for the annual notification, the suspension leading up to this Decision stated: ‘The notification is assumed to contain relatively brief information on what the government has done and/or intends to do as a result of each decision. More comprehensive policy assessments, where these decisions may also be taken in conjunction with other government policies, are normally not required in these communications but in other communications or propositions in the subject matter concerned.» The Annual Alert Notice on Request and Investigation Decisions is drawn up at the Office of the Prime Minister and is based on the opinions obtained from the respective department. The message we are handling today is the third of its kind. In recent years, a large number of request decisions have been taken, as was the case with the rapporteur. These are decisions of a very different nature. Some are concerned with policy issues and priorities that are of primary importance; some are requests to investigate matters more closely. Some decisions will be brought back by the Government with ad hoc follow-up and some decisions are designed for detailed management by the Government and are more administrative in nature. I agree with what both the rapporteur and the representative of Kosmo had to say: respect must be attached to decisions taken by the Stortinget. There is, of course, a requirement both for government and for the Government itself, in the sense that there should be no doubt that decisions should be followed up, and for the Grand Duchy to demand that proposals be considered and formulated so that they can be clearly followed up. In this way, I also agree with what the representative Kosmo indirectly had to say, that one should show restraint on bench proposals. With increased demands for feedback from the Government on what is happening with the request decision, and in some cases also with proposals for the recasting of previous decisions – I will come back to that – I believe that this will also mean an increased vigilance by the Storting on the basis of proposals. Let me also make it quite clear that there should be no doubt about a government's obligation to follow up a decision on the size of the store. If a government finds it impossible, it will have to go back to the Stortinget and explain that this does not find the government possible, and in that case, if necessary, invite the Stortinget to make a new decision. So it's going to be up to Stortinget. It must be allowed, as the rapporteur-in-Office emphasised. But I would also like to stress that it is a government obligation to consider how to follow up a decision if this is not specifically indicated by the Storting itself. In this way, the Council of State and the Government have to assess this. In some cases, a request decision contains the time when something is to be done. If a government does not find it possible to comply with such a deadline, it should be informed accordingly. Of course Stortinget has an opportunity to respond. In this way, I would like to point out in particular cases where you are asked to promote legislative proposals. With regard to the preparation of legislative proposals, there is a special requirement for a thorough review, legal review, and consultation procedures are also required. These must be respected by a government. If it comes into collision, for example. with a time indication for Stortinget, the Size must be made aware of this. Some of the request decisions taken by Stortinget are not always as clear in their content. It may also be difficult at times to determine the scope of what the Storting has decided. A request decision may also be in breach of other decisions on size. For example, decisions may be taken which require expenditure but have not been followed up by a decision granting the Government the necessary authority to use the money for the decision or by decision No. 70 under 2.4.1 under the Ministry of the Environment, where the Stortinget asked the Government to introduce a budgetary solution that would be contrary to the Stortingen's own allocation regulations if it were to be followed up literally. Where the decision is not clear, or where the decision is not in accordance with other decisions taken in respect of aggregates, the understanding of the decision will have to be based on an interpretation of the Stortinge intention. It has not been given that it can be claimed that the Government has not followed up a decision of the Storting, even if the follow-up is not entirely in accordance with the wording of a request decision. The problem of unclear instructions to the Government is affected in the setting of the Frøiland Committee, such as: says: ‘... the legal effect of the Storting decision as a general rule should be interpreted in a restrictive way. A decision should not be considered to impose specific obligations unless it is clearly stated in the wording and history that it is intended to do so. Uncertainty in this interpretation should affect the majority who have taken the decision and who could choose to express themselves more clearly. Such a presumption of restrictive interpretation already follows the sample's view of the law in force, but appears to be particularly natural and necessary in the light of the recent explosive increase in the number of decisions.» This will give the Stortinget the opportunity to come back and discuss later in this majority period. The attitude we are discussing today shows some disagreement between the majority and the government parties regarding the follow-up to decisions of the Government. But I would believe – I also mean to have it confirmed after the posts that have been made now – that the disagreement is not so big when it comes to the problem. The practice until now, under various governments, has been that there have been feedback to the Storting in a slightly different way. Decisions are followed, for example: by way of admissibility decisions, by the submission of notices and propositions, by the appointment of the investigative committee and by the review and evaluation of matters in different documents to the Stortinge. If, for various reasons, a government does not find itself able to follow a decision on the collapse, or is pursuing it in a different way or at a different time from that adopted by the Stortinge, it has usually been to mention the background to this in a case to the Stortinge, for example. in a budget proposal. In some cases, proposals for decisions have also been made in order to reverse previous decisions. If, for example, a government in the State budget: is unable to propose an allocation requested by the Stortinget in the past, and the Stortinget then adopts the draft budget in that area, it is my opinion that the Stortinget has in fact converted its previous decision by means of this budgetary decision. I also suppose is an understanding one has in Stortinget. To sum up, I look forward to a further debate on this and on other constitutional issues when dealing with the suspension of the Frøiland Committee. I think it is good that it is more clearly stated that a government is to follow the decision of big business, that it is to report back to the Stortinge how it is done, and that in cases where one does not find to be able to follow up the intention, or will not follow the intention, as the representative Kosmo said, can tell whether it is when the matter is being dealt with in the Stortinge, or you can come back to the Storinge and propose a restatement of a decision, and then it will be up to the Storinge whether or not to do so. With regard to the follow-up of a proposal by a government, unless clearly stated in the decision itself, it will have to be assessed by the relevant Council of State and Government. If time limits are specified that a government is unable to hold, the Stortinge should be informed of that, and the Stortinge has of course also an opportunity to respond. In particular, it is necessary to impose strict procedural requirements on proposals which are subject to the presentation of legislative proposals, because there are very specific procedural, consultation and so on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e307	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2562]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e323	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group, 5 minutes for Simonsen and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to three lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e332	Proposals address an increasing problem in our society, namely the increased use of violence and threats against police officers. We cannot accept that hardcore criminals will succeed in evading criminal prosecution by using such methods. It is a threat to our legal system if this is given the opportunity to evolve. Few police officers manage to live with such jobs over a long period of time, which may therefore have an impact on recruitment and on the types of people we can eventually recruit to the police. The Norwegian police force is just that we have a corps of people with unique human qualities. Odelstingen discussed this issue as late as last week, when we considered proposals for restrictions on access to access to documents and documentation. The main objective of this amendment was precisely to increase protection against the use of violence and threats against both police and other actors in criminal matters. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party, is satisfied with the work of the Minister of Justice to combat violence and threats against both police officers and other actors in criminal matters. A number of legislative changes have recently been proposed and addressed. In addition to the one we dealt with last Thursday, new rules for anonymous witnessing and rules for notional identity have been adopted. In addition, the Stortinget expects soon to be presented with legislative measures to combat organised crime. The Police Directorate has recently adopted guidelines on witness protection, and Nordic cooperation has been initiated to protect witnesses. The majority of the Committee therefore considers that there is no need to promote an action plan to improve the safety of police officers. We believe that the work already in progress is superfluous to the need for such a report, and that it is actually opening doors. The proposer also proposes to introduce minimum penalties for all kinds of violence and threats against police officers and proposals to increase the maximum penalties for killing police officers. The majority agree with the Minister of Justice that such issues should now wait for the resolution of the criminal law commission and that there is no pressing need to make such changes now. In addition, it is also the case that the proposal states that today's legislation has a wide range of penalties for violence and threats against the police. For the Labour Party, I would also like to add that we are generally sceptical about imposing minimum penalties, as in some cases it will force the courts to acquit or subsum. In addition, the Labour Party believes that there is no specific need to extend the maximum sentence of the law from 21 to 30 years. The members of the Penal Court have also pointed out that there is no need for this. However, the use of sanctions frameworks should be exploited much better than they are today. We also have a custody system that allows for the use of custody in cases where society needs additional protection beyond the maximum age of 21 years. We therefore see no further need to extend the penal framework from 21 to 30 years, but there is a debate that we come back to when the Minister of Justice presents the position of the Penal Felony Commission in this Chamber. We demand, from the Labour Party, a more fundamental debate on the length of the penalty set against the effect and significance of it. And we expect that we will have ample opportunity to have a debate on this at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e351	Some would argue that this matter and this proposal are in a way groundless, because one does not want a shared debate on what kind of action one wants to have a functional society. I want to pay tribute to the proposer for bringing up an important issue: what kind of trust and back coverage this room is going to give to the police, which is our tool to combat crime. I also regretfully record that the majority adopts a passive attitude towards doing something. We have debated matters before in the Justice Committee, and we will continue to do so – also in the media for that matter – about what kind of actions are necessary where. Some of us remember that not very long ago it was a rather serious matter about how police actually felt that their everyday life was, not only their personal but also when it was about relationships that affected the family. Obviously, if a policeman gets into a situation where there's a threat to his closest, that's the people he's most concerned about and afraid of, it'll matter how he can do his job. There's a responsibility for Stortinget. At my discretion, Stortinget has a clear responsibility to ensure that the police have maximum protection and security against the political governing bodies in Norway, so that they can actually be the tool that we want them to be. If it doesn't make a difference between words and deeds, then we're going to get a police officer who might insist on going into more serious crime. There's none of us earned. As far as the proposal from the proposer is concerned, it is, in our opinion, something general, and we have chosen to go further and clarify a number of points. We support the intention to make an action plan, and it may well be that this is what must be done in relation to what the Labour Party representative was about, namely to have an overall approach to it. Nevertheless, in this case we choose to make some of our proposals concrete, which we believe should be part of such a possible future action plan. It is important that we support the idea that unconditional imprisonment should be imposed where violence against public officials is practised. It will be a clear signal of how important we think it is to prevent such cases. It is not certain that it does, but the person who does such an act should be aware of the cost of it. So we have confidence that there is a preventative element in it. We don't believe in a criminal policy that's about turning the other cheek. We don't believe in a criminal policy based on understanding corrupt criminals. Nor do we believe in a criminal policy that has a very distorted weight compared to taking into account the offender/sacrifice. It's significantly less for the victim. For the Progress Party, it is an ambition to move the focus from the criminal over to the victim. There we have a long way to go, not least it's my experience after participating in some debates in this room. And then, of course, we're also going back to our proposal to increase the penalties for killing to 30 years. We've previously heard the Minister of Justice suggest that it might go that way, and we've said that we want to go there now. Some say that it does not matter, because it is the courts that have to independently assess and use the criminal framework. That is quite clear, and that is quite correct. At the same time, this hall lays down the framework conditions and defines the law. Then, in my opinion, it will be a clear signal to the courts that the Storting sees that the penalty framework is too tight today, that you want to expand it. The extent to which it is to be used will be up to the courts. It's clear. But we want to give a signal that it can be raised to its advantage. We look with great interest at what the Minister of Justice wants to withdraw from the sleeve, to use such a term. We have also said that we want a minimum sentence of five years unconditional imprisonment for killing police officers. In addition, there are also a number of other groups that carry out social work, which we believe need to be looked at in this context. There may be weights and others helping to solve societal problems that the police may not be able to do because of lack of resources. In this context, we will challenge the Government to look at problem areas related to other similar societal tasks, and also give people who carry out such work greater protection than they have today. I would like to raise the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e370	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e373	I really didn't mean to say anything in this case today, but since the representative Ellingsen expresses that the majority parties in this case have a passive attitude, I think it's in their place to contradict it. The whole post that the representative Gjul held on behalf of the majority parties tells us that they are active in this field. It's an activity in relation to things that have been done. We've addressed this because these are problems we've seen over a long time. New measures have been introduced on the ground. And there are measures and changes going on to address the problems. I have no problem giving the representative Simonsen the right to the fact that it is important to provide protection. It's important to make sure that the truth comes out. And it's important to make sure that people who threaten will not have the opportunity to decide whether the truth comes out or not. That's absolutely right. But we have also been fully aware of that, and we have taken some steps to prevent such developments. And there's still a new grip. In addition, the proposal by the representative Simonsen also states that there is a wide range of penalties for violence and threats today, but that the courts do not take advantage of them. We have repeatedly stressed from this interlocutors that the Storting has initially provided the framework that is important and that the courts need to make better use of them. I would also like to point out, as the representative Gjul did in an exemplary way, that aspects of this come to mind when dealing with the new penal code. It's neat that we're waiting for it, unless there's an urgent need to do something, to grasp things that are unmanageable at the moment. The plural portions cannot see that this is the case. The tools needed in today's situation are available, but it is important to use them. So my article was about denying that the majority has a passive attitude in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e391	It is interesting to note that the rapporteur and the majority of the Committee are concerned about recent developments with increased use of violence and threats against police officers, but at the same time do not want to do anything to reduce violence and threats, at least not today, but perhaps tomorrow. We don't know until we see how the government follows up a public investigation that has taken many years to complete. I was a member of the Justice Committee from 1993 to 2001. At regular intervals, I have been met with the argument that it is impossible to do anything now, because a sample is working on revising the penal code. Of course, this argument leads to paralysis of action. We are facing a problem that everyone agrees that something needs to be done, but little is being done. We're waiting for an investigation, a message, a proposition, for something -- waiting and waiting -- and the paralysis of action is killing. If it doesn't do anything effective quickly to reduce the use of violence against the policemen who risk their lives and their health to protect us from evil, we risk losing lives. Politicians from several parties call for immediate action to solve the problem of unemployment. The same politicians do not immediately accept measures to save lives and health for our policemen. Only the Progress Party shows the will to do something. I neither believe nor hope that the other parties will benefit from this in the forthcoming election campaign. The Progress Party and the new Democratic Party, of which I myself am now a member, can make good proposals in line with the wishes of the Joint Union of Police, while the other parties can show that the issue is being investigated, investigated and investigated. Good luck, but I don't think such an explanation is accepted by the voters. So the representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen says that you don't have a passive attitude to this problem. He points out that everyone agrees that the penalties are relatively well known, even though both myself and the Progress Party want them to be extended, but the main problem is that the courts do not use the known penalties. The Courts must judge more stringently. The representative Marthinsen has said that many times. And that's what all the magnification representatives have said many times. But it doesn't happen, and then it's a relatively passive attitude just to talk about how the penalties should become more stringent, when we're not willing to do anything to make them do it. Because there is only one method to achieve this, and there is a higher minimum penalty. Then it will be impossible for the courts to judge as weakly as they do today, in all areas. Workers' Party representative Gjul says that the Workers' Party is in principle skeptical of minimum penalties. But there is no logical context in the Labour Party's policy in this regard, because the Workers' Party has, after all, accepted minimum penalties for a wide range of criminal acts. It is no more than a few years since the Workers' Party helped increase the minimum penalty for rape. The working party should decide soon. Are minimum penalties positive, or are minimum penalties negative in principle? There is no doubt that for many years there has been a passive attitude to this issue, even though Minister of Justice Dørum has been one of our most capable justice ministers and has done a number of things that have improved the situation. However, new measures are needed. And the most important thing is to put in place a criminal reaction that really shows that using violence against police officers is more serious than using violence against Jan Simonsen – because the police are putting themselves in danger of protecting us. New measures are needed and action needs to be seen in the context. That is why I have proposed an action plan. It is regrettable that it is rejected by the majority of the population, but it is almost even more regrettable that the relatively moderate proposals that the Progress Party has also promoted today are actually rejected on the grounds that one has to wait, wait and wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e406	I found reason to take the floor when both the representative Ellingen and the representative Simonsen are trying to present it as if nothing is being done, as if we are not doing anything today – or tomorrow. We did something last Thursday. Then we had a long debate in Odelstinget about Ot.prp. No 24 for 2002-2003, including Keeping information away from the defender in order to protect witnesses, informers and policemen was up. We've done something about fictional identity in connection with Ot.prp. No 117 for 2001-2002. We have done something about providing better equipment to the police to deal with difficult situations, with the introduction of, among other things. pepperspray, telescopebatong and other things. We refer to the Commission's proposals, which are now under investigation. And then the representative asked Simonsen for an action plan, while he strongly criticized the government for investigating things. State Council Odd Einar Dørum is a wandering action plan, he is a man of action, he is promoting matters on a case-by-case basis to the Stortinget which is just addressing the issues of which representatives Simonsen and Ellingsen are concerned. State Council Odd Einar Dørum promotes matters to the Stortinget that the Stortinget is dealing with, and usually receives support from the Progress Party in strengthening the police position, in providing better protection to the police, in providing the police with the opportunity to deal with the most brutal criminals. This government method is action – not new action plans, which are requested in Document No. Eight proposals, but propositions for the Storting with legislative changes. If the representative Simonsen sees in the yellow book, he'll see that there are 15 odelsting propositions now, in a short time, from the Minister of Justice, where over half are changes in the penal code. So here there's no need to ask for action plans. Here we operate with action from day to day.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e417	As I stated in my letter to the Justice Committee on 27 January 2003, the development of increased use of violence and threats against police and their families is worrying and needs to be taken seriously. Other actors in criminal matters, such as witnesses and judges, are also more at risk of violence and threats now than before. The Ministry has therefore been working for several years to combat this type of crime. Among other things, the Ministry has proposed a number of legislative changes. In 2000, on the basis of proposals in Ot.prp. No 40 for 1999-2000 adopted a new Paragraph 132(a) of the Penal Code on increased penalties for perpetrators of violence or threats, etc. against the actors in criminal proceedings. The penalty officer shall, inter alia: protect police and prosecution officers. At the same time, new rules were adopted which allow anonymous witnessing. Also, access for police witnesses and other witnesses to criminal proceedings in order not to indicate where they live or work was extended. Ministry of Justice, Ot.prp. No 117 for 2001-2002 proposals to amend the Police Act on the use of fictional identity. The proposal was adopted by Law 20 December 2002 No. 107. Corrective identity will include, inter alia: be given to police officers and others in their household who are at risk of being exposed to serious crime aimed at life, health or freedom. In Ot.prp. No 24 for 2002-3003, the Ministry has proposed amendments to the penal code on restrictions on access to documents and on the provision of evidence. The main objective is to increase protection against the use of violence and threats against actors in criminal matters. In December 2002, the Ministry sent proposals for legislative measures to combat organised crime, including: the proposed tightening of penalties for all types of organised crime. Increased penalties will also extend access to untraditional and modern methods of investigation. In November 2001, the Ministry of Justice set up a working group led by the Police Directorate to look at measures to protect witnesses and other actors in the criminal justice area against threats and represals. The working group presented proposals for safeguard measures in its report, which was delivered in May 2002. The Ministry of Justice decided that the work group's proposals should be implemented with immediate effect as far as practicable and that they should be given the status of national witness protection guidelines. The Ministry has also initiated Nordic cooperation on witness protection. In March 2002, a Nordic meeting was held in Oslo on cooperation in the field of witness protection. All Nordic countries were represented at this meeting, which was organised by the Police Directorate. Cooperation is now continued by the Nordic Heads of State or Government. The Ministry of Justice is currently working on the proposal for a new penal code in the light of the Commission’s proposal in NOU 2002:4 New penal code. The investigation has been under consultation with a deadline of 1 March 2003. Work on new criminal law will also assess the penalties for killings, violent crimes and threats. An important part of the Commission’s mandate was to assess the severity of the various offences. The mandate highlighted the need to weigh the various criminal penalties against each other in order to establish the criminal framework. Against this background, work should only be started on changing the criminal framework of individual penalties in today’s criminal law if there is an urgent need for it. As also highlighted in the explanatory memorandum for the proposal in Document No. 8:46, today's penalties for violence and threats against the police are known. Something urgent need to change the framework before the work on a new penal code is completed, I can't see that it is. Norwegian criminal law does not open up for life imprisonment. Today's longest sentence is prison for 21 years. When the Criminal Felony Commission’s proposal was sent to the hearing, the Ministry asked the Hearing Officer to consider whether the maximum penalty for certain very serious crimes should be raised to 30 years. Against this background, the questions raised in Document No should be addressed. 8:46, considered in the context of work on new criminal law and not as a separate matter now. I have noticed that the majority of the Judicial Committee agrees with this procedure. Let me also add that I fully agree with the representative Simonsen that there is actually a difference between an attack on the representative Simonsen and on the citizen Odd Einar Dørum – who currently has the trust to be the Council of State – in relation to what is happening to policemen, who stand in the forefront in order to protect society. It's a basic attitude I've had for a long time, and I'm going to carry on – even when I'm considering the questions that I've commented on in general about this matter in Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e443	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e447	It is interesting to hear the Council of State when he explains the superiority of the sitting government. And in the extension of it: it becomes a constant question of word and action – so also in this case. Several of those who have been up here have referred to the debate on Ot.prp. No 24 for 2002–03 on hidden evidence, which the Judicial Committee had last Thursday. Then the government parties on the Stortinget – in cooperation with the Council of State – showed action. Among other things, that process promoted a concrete legislative proposal. Does the Council of State consider that the amendment made at the time was more important to combat crime than to take concrete action in this matter that can ensure police officers a safer everyday life?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e454	What we are talking about here is serious, organised crime, which is also reflected in threats and violence against many, among others. against police officers. In this context, no single matter is more important than others; it is the sum of the measures that count. From the first moment – since I decided to get involved in this issue – I have tried to get practical measures to be taken with considerable commitment. I don't want to be perceived in that way that I present excellence; it now gets people who are elsewhere than where I sit, judging. I want to be perceived in that way that I am deeply concerned that those on the front line to ensure the rule of law are entitled to be heard, seen and given the protection and legislation they need. It is right that the representative of Greece pointed out that there are a number of issues going on to the Stortinget about this. I would like to stress the seriousness of this by quoting something that I believe UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan once said that the three greatest threats to international society today are states that are so weak that they do not have legitimacy, it is terror, and it is organized crime that uses war-like instruments. And it's in the middle of this landscape we're now. I would like to say it this way: I have met with policemen who have been exposed to someone cutting over the brake hose on their car, who has had houses lit, etc. I know how it kind of goes. It is in the light of the fact that the measures I mentioned in my speech have been taken, and it is in the light of the fact that I am going to follow developments very closely. We have to give protection to those on the front line. It's not more than a few days ago that I experienced how people who have a witness experience being threatened in criminal matters. The representative Ellings can be absolutely sure that this I have strongly in both my head and heart. Then there must be a political debate about who is best and who is worst. But at least that I'm burning for this is certain.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e465	Since we have a living action plan among us, I have to take the opportunity to make a small reply. I understood that when policemen are subjected to violence, they might hesitate to report, because it costs a lot of money to engage a lawyer. Free legal aid, I think, is important to secure police officers financially, so that they can get the legal assistance needed to promote such a case. My question is then: will the Council of State base this when he looks further on the plan that will come to Stortinget a little later? When a matter is attached to the protocol, not much is happening. That's why I'm using this opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e474	Through the measures that I have outlined, and that others have been involved in, it is society that reacts and sets the limits. To the extent that there is free legal aid, the Stortinget generally – without me going into it now – has removed the excess. The size has also increased the income limits. It is a proposal that the government said we would follow up – otherwise in line with the fact that we did not have money at the right time. So we made another proposal to the Stortinget, which was accepted. It was an interesting reflection on something that belonged to the previous debate, and as the representative Hall Arnøy also remarked. When it comes to being a wandering action plan – which was a picture that the representative of Greece used – everyone gets to use images, it's used in political debate. All I can say is that I am deeply involved in this, for example. – last summer – what quality it is on the West of policemen, if you can be absolutely sure that they will keep what they need. I try to do this by literally walking, not in public light, but with them at work, to get some insight into what it might be like. It is a form of work that I intend to continue with, but which I have not intended to announce in any other way than that it is important to work like this. There's no doubt that on the edge of our society, in dark spaces, there's a brutalization, and it hits quite a lot. I see it as a progress when it becomes a broad recognition in our society that we do not tolerate it. Because if we first tolerate it, we've declared the state of law. And the state of law we can't leave, even though it may be uncomfortable that we have to solve some dilemmas. I'm fully prepared to go in and grasp this. I'm going to do it. In the fight against organised crime, I fully share what the UN Secretary-General has said, which I referred to in my previous post. In that landscape, representatives of the Storting can count on the Government to follow the field and take the initiatives we consider necessary. We're not going to be in the back of this. We're going to follow that development very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e487	It's nice to walk as long as you don't walk away! Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e494	It's not right, as Trond Helleland's representative says, that I believe the government has done nothing. This Minister of Justice has done a good deal, evenly and thoughtfully. It is also not true that I am against the fact that things have to be investigated. But the Criminal Felony Commission has been investigating for years, and while crime has increased, while the threats have worsened, and while police work has become more difficult. Therefore, it is beyond my comprehension that it should not be possible to do anything today, temporarily, while we are waiting for a proposition as a follow-up to the Punishment Commission. It is beyond my ability to understand if it is such that the majority in the European Parliament believes that it makes sense to increase the minimum penalties for violence and threats against police officers, but cannot vote in favour of the proposal put forward today by the Progress Party. For it is a proposal that does not even specifically consider how long a minimum penalty should be, but only some indications. Then you ask the government to make suggestions. Had this proposal been adopted now, it could have been sent to the Government as an obligation to make rapid proposals to the Storting – with the turbo-efficient Minister of Justice whom Trond Helleland believes we have, it should not take more than a few weeks. Then the proposal would have come back to the Storting, it could have been adopted and the rule would have been the rule until one could have reconsidered it in connection with the overall position and proposals of the Penal Court. That would be efficiency. This is what a parliament should do if we want something to do with the problems of society. Waiting and waiting and using for years as an argument that there is some ongoing investigation, waiting for a proposition, is the opposite of effectiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e501	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2 In addition, the representative Jan Simonsen should have been present during the examination of case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2562]] – He could have learned something then.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e519	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e528	This case concerns a proposal to investigate and evaluate a test project for testing the electronic labelling of vehicles in order to streamline and modernise police control procedures based on the MicroMark system. The Committee considers that one of the Department's fields of action is such assessments. The Committee is also concerned with new and forward-looking methods that can deliver efficiency gains to police work, which could give Norwegian society more policemen out in preventive police services. At that time, the main message of police reform about more visible police out there among the public would be fulfilled. We are therefore very positive when ordinary police officers in regular police jobs also use their experiences and their heads to devise new methods to make their job better, faster and more efficient, and even develop the system ready for testing. Policemen with initiatives should be applauded and motivated for further innovation. We are constantly finding that the criminal environment is putting new ideas into life all the time. It is therefore important that those who are to combat these environments also participate in the creation of counter-terrorism. It's as well-known as a saying that whoever wears the shoe knows best where it prints. The Committee believes that one of the many jobs that the directorate has is to encourage innovation – accept and listen to your own employees who have new, good ideas for new ways of working. We see that there is a lot of work going on in this particular sector that this case concerns. For this reason, we in the Committee believe that the Ministry should consider all the new ideas together, so that the method chosen is certainly the right one for us also in terms of legal certainty and privacy, and not just wait and see what the EU or another department comes up with. The Committee recognises that a proper evaluation will have to be carried out by the Ministry a little longer than before the revised national budget, which will not be very long. But we expect from the committee a response from the department as soon as advice is on the occasion of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e543	We have just debated a matter of entering and making changes to improve the overall picture. The intention lies with all of us; it's just different approaches that create political nuances. In this case, the intention and the idea are the same, while the political ideology does not have the big spread in this case, as a parallel to the previous one we had. For our part, the intention of the proposal, where the undersigned was one of the proposers, was to increase efficiency. As stated in the committee, we are still being told that there are too few policemen available out there. Part of the reason it's just about how the police work. Procedures and regulations provide guidance on how to do things. I think that Stortinget – of course department and directorate – has a challenge here when it comes to thinking new and thinking alternatively. Then it becomes important that those who work in the building actually feel that they are being taken seriously, that when they have a proposal for a solution, for an improvement, they should be listened to. I am aware that with regard to this project, the Minister of Justice has listened. He has listened carefully, and he has listened more than once. I myself have had the pleasure of attending a meeting with the Minister of Justice on this occasion, which I have, in any case, greatly appreciated, and which I expect the people who are behind this project have greatly appreciated. So the case rapporteur said something that I fully share, and that I thought was exemplary: this about taking care of the employees, that they should feel that they are part of a team, and that they should be taken care of. That is also the Committee's intention, and I assume that the Minister will take it with him. So the rapporteur said another thing that I was very happy about, because I have been in doubt about it. I saw the case rapporteur as very clear that all kinds of electronic labelling should be assessed. In any case, the undersigned perceives that if the proposal of the Progress Party falls here, the door is not closed. But to be sure I can't get the door over my fingers, to say it that way, I feel obliged to ask the Minister of Justice how he perceives this. Is it true that if today's proposal to the Progress Party is voted down, which is likely to be, then the door for MicroMark will be closed, or will the Minister of Justice follow it up, in line with what the case-rapporteur said? I expect the minister to have an article and will answer it. Another thing that amazes me a little bit: Last spring, when I was at a meeting in the department and met the Minister of Justice, he was very concerned about a Swedish system called MoBasa – if I don't remember completely wrong. Now I record that they have changed their positions and have ‘seen the light’ further south in Europe. It's suggested that you want to go for an EVI system. Then it would also have been tempting to ask: what's next? I hope and believe that the Minister of Justice and the Department in their approach to this is neat and looking at the quality of the different systems, and thereby drawing the conclusion that we finally get the most functional system. If it becomes an EVI system, if it becomes MoBasaA, if it becomes a system based on MicroMark, I don't know. What's our intention is to test it, so at least we're sure of the qualities that MicroMark has. It is the intention of the proposers here. I think I'm going to deal with my proposal in the meantime. So far, I would like to say thank you and wait for the Minister of Justice's feedback.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e562	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e565	The proposal of the Progress Party to launch a project to test the electronic labelling of vehicles aims to streamline and modernise police control procedures. The Christian People's Party does not disagree with the objective itself, but finds it difficult to support the action now. The project is based on the MicroMark system. The Government is asked to provide feedback to the Stortingen for implementation in the context of the revised 2003 national budget. The short period involved is not proportionate to the good intention of the proposal itself. The proposal has its background in the positive experience of police and customs in controlling vehicles in the field and at border crossings. MicroMark is a tool for police and customs in cases where a vehicle has been stopped. The system facilitates the control of the data collected on the vehicle in the bases of the police and the Road Directorate, respectively ELYS and Autosys. It is planned to be an electronic tool for police in control situations. MicroMark highlights the advantages of the system: it is resource-saving, socio-economic and service-friendly, provides better legal certainty and contributes to the modernisation of the public sector. The Ministry of Justice, in its feedback, refers to the proposal for a new EU electronic labelling system for vehicles with a wide scope of application. The Ministry considers it not appropriate to test new Norwegian systems for similar purposes now, and recommends that we await the outcome of the EU. We're joining this assessment. There will be considerable uncertainty about a Norwegian project before we know more about developments in this area within the EU. I am therefore attending the Ministry's feedback to Stortinget on this matter after the necessary assessments have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e583	To the right, it is important to facilitate police work as effectively as possible and to prioritise resources in terms of preventing and combating crime. We, as justice politicians here in the Chamber, should be open to considering new ways of improving police work. Electronic marking of vehicles to streamline and modernise police control procedures is an example of this. Not least, it is also an example of being ahead of the methods used by criminals, and perhaps getting a more effective system than what exists now. The reason why we do not want to support this proposal, however, is that, on the part of the government parties, like the rapporteur's party, it is not appropriate to test Norwegian systems when the EU is now betting on a new system with a wide scope of application. In the context of EU work, Norway participates in an EU electronic vehicle identification project. It has the potential to be a crime-fighting tool and can both improve enforcement and enhance the efficiency of public authorities. As the rapporteur mentioned in his statement, the parties also want an overall assessment of the choice of system, in addition to the consideration that has to be taken for Norway as part of the Schengen cooperation. The project launched in 2003 shall identify needs, both in relation to the possibilities offered by the system for more effective controls and in relation to the interests of privacy. Government lots therefore consider it unnecessary to use resources to have more than one pilot project running at the same time, which in reality differ little from each other. As I said at the outset, we want such a system for the police, so that they are better able to combat the new type of crime. We have high expectations of the outcome of the EU project in which Norway participates and are pleased that Norwegian data protection legislation is being respected by linking Norwegian legal expertise to the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e596	The overall cost framework for the MicroMark-based pilot project is 21 million. kr. The proposal is positive and well-worked, and is well-informed into the main objectives of police reform for improving police efficiency. However, in view of a longer strategic perspective, which also includes opportunities for standardisation and increased teamwork with other European countries as an essential element, I would like to emphasise the Commissioner's recommendation not to start a separate Norwegian project in this area now. The background is that the EU is setting itself on a new system of wide scope. I therefore find it not appropriate to test Norwegian systems for similar purposes now, but instead I will await the result of this work. Norway participates in an EU electronic vehicle identification project – Electronic Vehicle Identification, EVI. The project was launched in January 2003 and the report is scheduled to be available in the summer of 2004. EVI is defined as an electronic device allowing a remote and reliable communication of identifiable parameters in the vehicle itself. The system includes essential characteristics required by public authorities, such as electronic plates, vehicle registration and classifications, etc. The electronic unit to be fitted to the vehicle is built in by the car manufacturer and is followed throughout the service life of the vehicle. Foreign cars will also be able to be registered/checked with EVI, and the system will therefore be a more effective tool to combat organised crime. The system may have the potential to reduce vehicle frauds and thefts originating in Norway or abroad, improve enforcement and enhance the efficiency of public authorities. Technology offers great potential for increased efficiency, but privacy considerations could limit the scope of use. It is therefore too early to have any sense of the full potential for winning. For the implementation of EVI in vehicles, links shall be provided to national administrative control systems and other infrastructures made available by road and police authorities. An electronic management control system is further developed under the direction of the State Road Administration. The control system has an IT-based solution for periodic traffic control in halls. A project has now been launched that will integrate the other control activities of the establishment into a corresponding IT system. This will provide a significant efficiency gain by also facilitating the implementation of out-of-office checks using hand terminals. In the case of out-of-office checks, it will be possible to retrieve a number of information in the vehicle register, Autosys. This register contains information on the vehicle, the owner, any comments concerning non-manufacture for inspection, non-reregistration, reported stolen vehicle, etc. Testing of the system takes place during 2003 and is planned for use by the State Road Administration from 1 January 2004. Final position on the future use of the system by the police will be taken after this test. Several electronic vehicle control systems are already under way, as mentioned above. The main challenges will be to identify needs, both in relation to the possibilities offered by the system for more effective controls and to the interests of privacy. I believe that on this basis there is no reason to start a new Norwegian project. I have also noticed that the committee wants an active feedback. Of course, that's what the Stortinge will get. Then I have received a slightly untraditional question from a wholesaler, about what is best suited for further proceedings. I have learned that a government council should be very careful to advise Stortinget, but I allow myself to come up with a more general reflection from my own time as a representative. It happened that there were things that were so important to me that I had to have them up for voting even if they could risk falling, because I had to stand for that. So it happened that there were cases where I felt a little bit about the pragmatism that it might increase the possibilities of the case if I made the proposal for a transfer proposal. I have used both forms of work and choose to present these more general reflections in the hall. I think – in principle – that it would be a little special for me as the Council of State to go into the very specific matter, but I have made some reflections. I did that because the representative Ellingen has a direct and cash form, and then I try to meet it as well as I can, in the balance of interests that I have now done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e611	Then Stortinget has been able to take part in the Council's reflections from his time as a magnificent representative. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e616	You have to listen to wise people, they're told, and then each of us has to assess who's wise. With regard to the intervention by the Minister of Justice, I again perceive that we have the same approach to the intention. But that's the goal that seems to be different. The Minister briefly outlines the EVI system, what you do in Europe, and that you want to go that way. Now we may not be going to take an EU debate here, but I note that you want to add to the proposal that one of the departments for which the Minister is head has worked, that you – I think so – should at least put it on ice. What the minister was also about, which I think is very interesting, is the monitoring aspect. It is said that there are data protection limitations in the EVI system – at least in my opinion the Minister – that need to be taken into account. I could imagine making the minister say something more about that. Is it so to understand that in the EVI system there are monitoring aspects that are contrary to the practices we have in Norway today? And does that mean that the Minister is concerned about the possible implementation of the EVI that the Data Protection Authority can get on its backbone? And then I'm going to ask the Minister of Justice a specific question: does it mean that the door will be closed if the proposal of the Progress Party on a trial project for testing MicroMark falls under the vote today? Or will the system be assessed together with the different types that exist, cf. statements by the rapporteur-general?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e628	What I mentioned about privacy was more general reflections because technology generally offers enormous opportunities. Today’s rules are the EU’s data protection directive, and it is implemented and underpinned by Norwegian legislation – so it is the backbone. If dilemmas arise in the future, they will have to come on the table and be treated as such. So when it comes to the specific issue, it's about a work that the Directorate of Police, too, is supposed to be in charge of. It is quite right, as the representative Ellingsen said, that I had the founder behind this meeting both the Police Directorate and the Road Directorate to get to know them carefully about the project. It also gave birth to the fact that I said in the introduction of my main post that it was a well-worked and very positive project, and that it fell within the framework. I don't want to be seen from Stortinget's pulpit as instructing underlying agencies, rather than pushing forward future solutions. Let me say it this way: the President registered that I had made some general reflections. I made some general reflections – I could of course not have done so – but I feel like I won't say anything more than that. It is true that when a proposal is defeated, it is downhearted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e637	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e642	The moment of truth: the reality has overtaken me. After listening to the clear/vague suggestions and references – or what to call it – along the way, I have, not to go all by myself, come to the conclusion that for a certainty I want to turn the proposal that I have mentioned earlier into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e647	The representative, Jan Arild Ellingsen, has referred to the proposal he himself referred to as a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e650	I think this proposal from the Progress Party demonstrates how the Progress Party works on a number of issues. Here the Council of State and the Ministry have referred to an investigation and evaluation of a European system. So then the Progress Party comes and promotes a case while that investigation is going on, and while that trial project is about to start. That is what I think demonstrates how the Progress Party works in this matter, and perhaps also in a number of other matters. All representatives see the benefits of this product and the importance that the police can get such a tool in their work. What is interesting is that this European system will be tested during 2003 and that the State Road Service will be able to apply it as early as 1 January 2004. What's interesting is that the Progress Party has actually already chosen the testing system, the MicroMark system, while the department is open to other solutions. But here, there's a difference between the representatives. We are actually open to solutions or other product suppliers than what the Progress Party here is proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e657	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2562]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e677	The diary from a patient at Risenga Bo- and Nursing Center has strong reactions with the right weight. There are calls for regulations and manning standards to improve the situation. There are regulations, both as a basis for the expected quality and as a guide for adding and monitoring to be carried out. There are also a number of examples of adding that indicate that additional crews are needed. Many local populace would like to follow up with more options. Unfortunately, they have such a poor financial framework that they have had to cut in the number of people added last year and this year instead of strengthening their efforts, including before the care services. What is a good care? The decisive thing is what happens in the meeting between the person in need of help and the provider of the service. Being met with respect and dignity is fundamental. It is important to provide all the good examples where the experience is today. Holdings, knowledge, staff's own ability to enjoy well-being – there are many factors involved. That a more dignified care is also about money, no one can explain away. When the polls now show that 45 pst. This year, the municipalities have all been through so many rounds of work that neither the school nor the care services can be saved. Demente is a group that needs peace, knowledge, stability and secure surroundings in a special way. The many thousands who have this diagnosis need more, not fewer, professionals around them. This year, the Government and the Advance Party have provided so scarce a financial framework that the municipalities have to stick to, that unfortunately, many dents can be directly affected. The one-sided focus that municipalities are now forced to have in relation to costs makes it necessary to challenge the Minister of Social Affairs on three themes: Does the Council of State think that more or less money is needed to get a more dignified care? Does she think that postponing competition itself is an instrument for getting better care, or will she now put her foot down there? The Government has now promised the Progress Party that they will implement challenge rights. Is there something in itself that will lead to a better care for the elderly? Is it not the opposite that it will take from the local authorities the possibility of the local self-government that the government is good at continuing in other contexts? There should be no doubt that the Central Party believes that more money is needed for the municipalities. We are working for a multi-year escalation plan to correct the financial imbalances that we are now seeing between tasks and means. We'll come back to that, both in connection with the revised budget and in connection with the municipal proposition. In Hallvard Vike's book "The Conscience of Power", they point out that many women today do far more than they are required to do within the care sector. Therefore, many care and care services are needed even if the municipalities are going down on the slopes. The birthplace of the municipal minister Erna Solberg is that fewer people should do even more work in the municipalities. Postponement of competition and privatisation are the recipes that should make this possible. The centre party would not accept such an approach. It is self-contradictory that private companies can both improve quality, reduce costs and create profits at the same time. And if some of them were to do that, why would private companies take the excess of tax money that people have paid in to secure the elderly a sick home place and the kids a good school? Anything else is to keep pace with the solid and valuable efforts that non-profit organisations have so far been involved in in the care sector. They still have their clear space in this image. In the fall, representatives of 38 small municipalities were to be heard in the Municipal Committee at Stortinget. They could tell about the long experience of privatisation in waste management, quarrying, washing of clothing, merchandise and others. They could also tell about a weekday where they now had no market for more services, there was no clear in their municipalities either to take over hospitals or schools, as representatives of the Government seem to believe. Moreover, the launch of municipal services is not always effective. This tool requires that profitable operation is economically feasible. Only in densely constructed strips the customer base is large enough. I think there's a reason to ask questions about whether a glossy picture of how excellent it is to leave services to the private. A study by the Foundation for Social and Business Research in Bergen from 2000 states that: ‘determining for the deployment of services primarily on an ideological basis without good investigations in advance may be unfortunate and have unintended consequences’. There are some large municipalities in Norway that have experience in putting off competition, including in the case of care services. Berum is probably the municipality that has had the biggest ambitions in terms of privatisation or postponement of competition. They wanted that 30 pst. the turnover was to be put out to competition and it appears in practice that it was only possible to release 6 pst. In Bærum, one would believe that all conditions were right – dense population, central location and also with the right ideological climate between decision-makers. The experience in Bærum is presented in a SINTEF Report on Postponing Competition, referred to in Dagbladet on 8 May last year. It says that Bærum has neither better quality nor saved money after the services were transferred to a Swedish company. The conclusion was that the quality has not gotten significantly worse. But your goal needs to be better quality. In Oslo, we know the Hovseter home as the first hospital to be transferred to private commercial operations. After six months, a large part of them said that the quality had gotten worse after the private ones had taken over. The shift was reduced, and the downtime later led to one giving up, after many added threatened to quit. 8 out of 434 Norwegian municipalities have put the elderly out of competition — perhaps even more in recent times. The commercial companies work hard to balance their finances – there are examples from several municipalities on that very point. According to the Newspaper, private actors say that politicians have exaggerated expectations about how cheap hospitals can be run. In this field, there are so few examples of competition and privatisation in Norway that have been successful. International, inter alia from Sweden, there are a number of examples of the opposite. In a report from De Factor, it is claimed that the first years of experience in Sweden were mainly of acceptable quality. It was also said that one in the first years could show for a saving of 10-12 pst. – this when the cost of the offer itself was not taken into account. Later estimates indicate that these costs are between 6 and 20 pst. of the total cost of an offer. The reason why municipalities require a lot of administration to follow up on your offer. There is a particular reason for noticing the experience of the last few years. Now the Swedish experience both monopolistic formation and poorer quality. The processes that have been both in Helsingborg and in Stockholm are examples of this. I am pleased that the Council of State has signalled that she will now put the search light on the content and quality of the care services. I find reason to remind you that it was actually also done in a big message that was made in January 2000 and which had the title: Content and quality in the care services – Care 2000. I'm very concerned that one of you is going to get involved in debates that you've already taken and that you've explained before – while the time goes by and the municipalities are being forced to cut down their crews. We're actually at risk of further deterioration in quality. Let me say in the end: luckily, it is so that we can find a lot of examples that the quality so far has been improved monthly in a short time. But it's in the municipalities people live, and that's where the services have to be done. This means that local authorities must be equipped with the necessary means to carry out their own tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e730	The resident and nurse Solvency Skinnarland's diary from her stay at the Risenga Hospital in Asker has made a strong impression. The government is concerned with the user-experienced quality of care for the elderly. Now we have a report from a user who was also professionally qualified in the field. State supervisory authorities have now addressed the matter. They will review what has happened, and provide their assessment both to the municipality of Asker and Norlandia Omsorg AS, who are responsible for the operation of the Risenga hospital. I therefore ask for an understanding that I cannot comment on the actual content of this specific matter. The representative, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, points out that Risenga’s nursing home is privately run, and raises questions about whether competitive outsourcing and privatisation focus so much on cost efficiency that it contributes to a low-value care for the elderly. We don't have any point of view of this today. On the contrary. State regulatory authorities are responsible for overseeing private-run institutions in the same way as public authorities. I have had a dialogue with the State Health Authority on this. As supervision sees it, systematic deviations have not been revealed which give evidence that private-run institutions are neither worse nor better than those in municipal operation. However, I have asked the Health Inspectorate on a general basis to systematise their experience with the privatisation of care services. The municipally driven care sector will in many places benefit from being challenged by private enterprises. I believe that outsourcing will help municipalities to become more aware of the quality of their services and how this is to be achieved. This, in turn, will provide better transparency, and will make failures and shortcomings apparent. However, competitive outsourcing does not necessarily lead to private operators assuming operational responsibilities for a service. There are also examples of a municipality itself winning bidding rounds, for example. in the municipality of Oslo, where the town of St. Hanshaugen-Ullevål itself won the bid. What Oslo municipality achieved in this process was that there was a greater focus on the content of the service itself, how these were organised, and how the municipality could organize this in a different but better way. Parental care is a municipal responsibility. Today, municipalities are free to decide how they choose to organise services, including whether they will entrust the operation of some of the services to private operators. On the other hand, municipalities cannot leave to others to ensure that there is a service provision, that it has sufficient quality and scope. Municipalities are also responsible for the agreements they negotiate with private individuals. Ensuring the quality of the service is and must be the responsibility of municipalities, regardless of the operating model they choose. Municipalities must also have the freedom to choose for themselves how to ensure a qualitatively good offer to citizens. Following today's system, municipalities cannot unilaterally focus on cost-effectiveness. They continue to have a responsibility to ensure the necessary quality of service. Competitive outsourcing is a short and well-known tool to achieve something else, namely to get more money back, and then I think more quality and better services are left for the money you have. There are different ways to do this – Oslo I mentioned. In Trondheim, on the other hand, they chose it differently. The aim of the outsourcing there was not to save money, but to get the best possible quality for the same amount of money. Moss also has, from January 2000, a competitive home service in one zone. The municipality’s own undertaking was invited to tender. Here, too, there are annual user surveys, and the scoring is as good as in the municipality's other businesses. It is good that the quality of care for the elderly is on the agenda. What I think is unfortunate, however, is that quality in care for the elderly is made a debate on the public versus private-run nursing homes. We can do the same, but even more constructively it would have been if the political debate focused on what tools we need to develop to ensure what we are all concerned about, namely good services of high quality, and how to develop them. Recruitment, flexible organisation, competent personnel and management are often essential for a good service. The Quality Regulation is another important tool, for example: in relation to the provision of basic needs. It is not least that it is important to ensure adequate competence building in municipalities, so that they become even better at defining what quality is to be achieved in each municipality. The municipalities have to be good at knowing what they want, and not least controlling what they get. Quality is usually provided for by good and suitable construction. We know that good construction recruits. As the interpellant is also well known, the action plan for the care of the elderly has led to a strong expansion and renewal of the Norwegian care and care service. More than 12,000 new annual works have been added to the sector, almost half of the nursing homes are newly built or fully renovated, the single rooms come in place and many thousands of new health homes and nursing homes are built. In St. Report. No 31 for 2001-2002, the end of the action plan for the elderly, the Government proposed that the action plan be replaced by a new development programme for better quality and simpler and more user-friendly care systems. There is a need for solutions tailored to individuals and to clean up legislation and financial instruments that shift attention away from the needs of the particular user. The large and complex organisations of care services represent one of the main challenges for public sector organisation and management. There are dominant jobs in the community with activities that run continuously around the clock. There are few leaders per day. employed. Managers are recruited from the field and often lack formal leadership skills. Good management and good quality are related. This is why the Government, together with the KS, has launched a four-year programme to improve skills and establish professional networks for 6,000 managers in the care and care sector. We also have great expectations for this. We need more hands in the care services. Through the recruitment plan for health and social personnel rates Government 110 million. for recruitment and competence, including: to increase the annual growth rate of auxiliary nurses by 50 pst. And through the work on the commitment agreement, we see that sick leave falls into the care sector. Extensive failure of care procedures has been detected. A separate supervisor has therefore been developed and will be sent out in a short time. This will be followed up by training and guidance on the part of county and local authorities. This is an important measure to ensure that users have an individual assessment and a customised offer based on the needs of each user. The government has set up a legislative committee under the direction of Professor Jan Fridtjof Bernt to review municipal health and social legislation for the purpose of simplification and harmonisation. The regulatory framework should be easy to understand for users and easier to practice for municipalities. From the new year on, the State’s health services are also responsible for the overall professional supervision of social services, so that the whole of health and social services are viewed in a coherent way. Coordination of these tasks during the county also contributes to this. This is not least important in relation to those who are now receiving their care in a nursing home or in their own home. These are measures that, overall, will help to improve the quality of care for the elderly, regardless of the type of operation chosen by the municipalities. In the quality communication presented this spring, the Government will take on the basis of individual people and the need for greater design of offers based on their needs, as one of the most important steps to improve the quality of care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e766	I would like to thank the Council of State for its thorough guidance both on what it has done so far and on how the Government intends to follow up on the care sector. Nor should there be any doubt from my point of view that the action plan for the care of the elderly was very important and has provided a good basis for a more dignified care, even though, at the end of the day, the Central Party had a separate proposal that the needs of the municipalities had notified should be fully followed up, even in the case of units. Then I join the Council of State in stressing that it is the municipalities that are responsible, and that it is up to the municipalities themselves to choose how they organise the care services. In my opinion, it is a derailment to discuss the launch of competition versus public and municipal care. I'm worried that it might be a derailment to discuss quality disconnects from resources. There is no need for more municipalities in this area now; one is willing to set up with resources. And I wonder if she is so simple to sidestep municipal commerce with a start of competition. Is it possible to get a proper overview of all costs, to take into account any savings in relation to the exposure to competition, in the case of the care services? Why would it not be wise now to listen to the experiences one has so far from Sweden, from Denmark and from the alternative that has already been tried in Norway – I am thinking of the model community test – and rather to say that we want an elderly care where the individual is met with respect and dignity? We know that security and stability for the elderly, for the relatives and for those who actually added are decisive. Therefore, the Government's priority number one should now be to equip municipalities with means to do so. It's the Center Party's alternative, and I hope that the Government will also highlight more.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e773	The representative Meltveit Kleppa makes it sound like there's a contradiction between having respect for the individual and treating people with dignity and being concerned with quality and looking at different instruments that can actually lead to this quality. Municipalities are responsible for the care of the elderly. It is not automatic that municipalities with good advice run good care for the elderly. It is also not difficult to drive expensive and not good. The representative of Meltveit Kleppa stresses that the municipalities are responsible for the care of the elderly. Nevertheless, the representative points out that she wants more money for the care of the elderly. In that case, it would be a detailed management. I am concerned that it is the municipalities that are the administrative body that is actually responsible for the care of the elderly, and in this way it would be a detailed management. The government has signaled that there will be more money for the municipalities. The representative of Meltveit Kleppa also wanted to point out in his introduction and comment now that they would refuse to launch a competition. In that case, it would be largely a detailed management of the municipalities, and I have to ask where the Central Party really is, because the representative Haga from Meltveit Kleppa's party believes that the municipalities are far too detailed, and that it is billions to save on not further detailed governance. But I hope that both magnification and government have the same goal: to help us focus on quality, and there are different instruments that can lead us there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e782	I want to start by giving honor to the interpellant, because through this interpellation, an important matter is being addressed that requires a broad commitment in this hall. I think that we all here in this room are concerned with the best possible care for the elderly. There is agreement on the need to improve the quality of Norwegian care for the elderly, not because everything in Norwegian care for the elderly is poor, that there are major errors and deficiencies throughout, but we realise that too many people are being offered too badly. The big question is what we should do to improve the quality of Norwegian care for the elderly, and this interview raises the question of whether competitive outsourcing, commercialisation of Norwegian care for the elderly, is an instrument for improving quality. To that I would say: for us in the Workers' Party, it is a key point to stress that we believe that commercialisation through competitive outsourcing will take us further away from the goal of good care for the elderly. We believe that it will be going in the wrong direction. And then there is one important thing that needs to be emphasised: there is a difference between commercialisation and outsourcing on the one hand and bringing in more than just the public as drivers of e.g.. care for the elderly on the other hand. We have long, good traditions in Norway linked, for example, to: municipalities conclude long-term cooperation agreements with the third sector, with non-commercial organisations, such as: The Church's Bymition, the Salvation Army and the Norwegian Women's Sanitation. The Labour Party believes that this may be an important complement to the fact that only the public operator, for example, is responsible for: older institutions. But there's a big difference between working together with the Salvation Army and offering an elderly institution, because then we set up the older sector as a business area. Then we bring in words and expressions like returns, dividends, profits, i.e., purely business assessments and analyses in the care of the elderly. We believe that it is an instrument to cut costs, and we get confirmation of our faith when we hear the Mayor repeatedly from this pulpit saying that competitive outsourcing is the answer to the tight financial framework of the municipalities. Then I think we're going beyond the goal of better quality, and over to poorer quality and cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e789	Is it cynical to demand the best possible offer for our elderly? I ask the question because in the debate on the operation of care services, there are some who are manufacturing outsourcing as a form of cynical market thinking that leads to our elderly becoming victims of profit. On the contrary, competitive outsourcing helps to ensure the best possible offer for our older people. The whole point of the outsourcing is to assess the service of an operator against others, contrary to a situation in which the public has a monopoly on the provision of services. It is, however, secondary to whether private operators, NPISHs or the public itself win the bidding round. It is essential that users are provided with the best possible services by comparing different offers. However, it is important to stress, as the Minister of Social Affairs also did in his speech, that it is the municipality that is responsible for the quality of care services, regardless of the type of operation. Therefore, municipalities must set clear standards of service quality and have systems to ensure that these are followed up. It is the municipality's inhabitants who are sponsors for those who provide the services, and it is they who define what are good services. The municipality must therefore focus on both quality and user satisfaction, in addition to economic considerations, when assessing tenders for care services. Anyone who wishes to win the tender must offer what the citizens want. Competitive outsourcing means that private operators are given the opportunity to provide services, not to define their content, and regardless of whether or not they like competitive outsourcing, it is difficult to deny that competitive outsourcing itself has led to more focus on quality. After the action plan for the elderly has resulted in half of all buildings being new or renovated, and everyone who wants to do so is offered exclusive space, the focus has been shifted to content. The Council of State presented its response to concrete initiatives, the recruitment of personnel to the sector and a programme to develop better management and competence. In addition, the government comes with its announced quality notice during the spring. A legislative committee has also been set up to simplify health and social legislation. And changes have already been made: the State Health Authority has been given the overall professional supervision of social services, so that health and social services are seen in a context. This will help to improve quality, whether the older person has institutional or home-based facilities, and regardless of the type of operation the municipality chooses. Bad and unworthy care for the elderly upsets us all. Tragic fates that we have been notified through the media are stories of unworthy treatment that should not occur. It is therefore important to raise the debate beyond the discussion on private or public actors and the outsourcing of competition. The negative focus on private health care is a proper derailment of the debate. Failure to provide care for the elderly is seen in both public and private-run institutions. In the Right’s view, care for the elderly is best served by a discussion on how to provide good services, regardless of who does it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e800	The Minister of Social Affairs has said on several occasions that she will focus on the quality of care services and repeat it here today. But what we see in action is that it opens up more competition and privatisation, while government and the social minister's concrete measures to ensure quality are waiting. And this is urgent. For example, if very good work is done and many elderly people and caregivers receive good care and care in Norwegian municipalities, there are still too many reports of the opposite. And the description of the conditions at Risenga is unfortunately just one of many. While this is happening, the message and signals from the Government to Norwegian municipalities are that they still need to be more effective, that they need to compete more and that employees have to run even faster. It can't be good quality. For SV, the quality of care and care provided is the most important thing. Everyone must be guaranteed a decent life, and this requirement must be addressed to Norwegian municipalities. However, SV does not contribute to making such demands without ensuring that municipalities have the opportunity and the freedom to create this quality. The Right Party of Government, the social minister's own party, has recently argued that SV wants greater municipal freedom at the same time as we want to make demands on the quality and standard of the services provided by the municipalities, whether it concerns kindergartens, schools or what is the theme here today, care and care. For SV, there is no difference. The reason for this is that we want to give the municipalities a freedom that the Right and the Government will not give, namely economic freedom. Where the Right will give the municipalities maritime governance and freedom to manage scarcity and poverty, SV will give the municipalities the freedom to offer citizens welfare and security to everyone according to their needs. Where the Right will impose competition and privatisation on the municipalities, SV will give the municipalities maritime governance and freedom to choose the solutions to the welfare tasks that are appropriate in each municipality, but with a quality and a standard that we believe the citizens are entitled to in a welfare society. Where the Right will give caregivers and carers the freedom to run even faster, SV will give employees the freedom to provide care and care they want to provide, but as they often do not today because of too low staffing. This is the fundamental difference between Right and SV Municipal Maritime Administration. When the Government comes up with its proposals to increase the quality of care for the elderly, whether it is about staffing, raising skills or improving management and organisation, they can count on SV’s support. But we are not in the process of creating expectations about better care for the elderly in the municipalities without being willing to pay the price. And it's going to be the big test piece for the Right, the Social Minister and the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e815	Simple examples of failing quality in hospitals and care centres, as seen in the interpellation, react strongly to the Christian People's Party. It cannot be accepted, regardless of any private or public operation. Many municipalities have a difficult financial situation, but it can't be a cause for these cases. Something has gone wrong for those who are responsible. Now I would like to stress that I know the matter only through the media, but it seems that it is a credible and good witness. Whether the offer has been made by the municipality itself, a non-profit Christian organisation or a private company, should not be decisive for the quality of the service. There's one inside on the wrong track, anyway. They add quite equal quality, I believe, whether they work in a private, a public or a non-profit organization. The interpellant addresses the issue of supply and outsourcing. For the Christian People's Party, it is decisive that quality requirements are set to ensure the user. Then the municipalities themselves will decide how to arrange the offer for those who need a service and for whom they are responsible. If there is a competitive outsourcing in such a way that quality is good and safe, the main score is not whether it is a private or a competitive outsourced supply. The Christian People's Party is concerned about the reports we get of ideal organizations, such as the The sanity unit, must shut down its operations because more profit-oriented companies are competing them out. We know that, in addition to the agreed quality, ideal and Christian organizations have many volunteers in the background who contribute to increasing the quality significantly. They provide users with an extended range of well-being measures. We see that competition can have something for itself in some places, especially in larger municipalities. In smaller municipalities, like my home arenas, I believe that in most cases competition in this sector is of little relevance. When it comes to the community economy, the Christian People's Party and the Government have warned that one realizes that the municipalities have too much faith and that one will bring extra funds to the municipalities for the next year. Finally, let me add that I am looking forward to the quality reform that the Minister of Social Affairs has said she will put forward. In this context, I believe that we will have a clear and proper debate on quality levels and what kind of demands we want both municipalities and the public to put into this service, which is so very important, and which relates to a group that we can't even count on is able to say so very clearly whether it's not entirely satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e828	The Minister of Social Affairs said that she could not comment on the matter at the Risenga Bo- and Caring Centre. But it is clear that the Social Minister and we are responsible for all units, whether they are public or private. Nor will the Minister of Social Affairs admit that competitive and privatised care operations lead to a deterioration in operation. She says on the contrary. But does not the Minister for Social Affairs see what is happening now in our neighbouring country Sweden, which in many cases reverses its competitive outsourcing projects because they have not led to good operation? So the Social Minister says that it is good that the quality of care for the elderly is for debate. I guess we all agree on that, but it could be a mouthhole. The Minister for Social Affairs further says that the political debate should focus on the tools to be used. Yeah, I totally agree with that. Among other things, competence and quality are mantra for the Minister of Social Affairs. In terms of competence, this week we had a case in the Chamber where the Government proposed that the Municipal Health Services Act § 3-3 on the qualification requirements for health professionals in the event of recruitment should be repealed. I think it's wrong if we want to focus on quality and qualifications. And I think it would be even more wrong if the municipalities were to put this off again. What kind of requirements and pressures can the outsourcing of competition involve for the municipality if the municipality does not have a right to maintain the skills and qualifications of employees? And then to quality. There must be resources for that. The weak community economy means that the operating framework for some hospitals is already too poor. In the case of competitive outsourcing to private operations, this operating economy is even worse. The minimum amount of tenders shall be fixed. Where the amount of the tender is then determined as a tighter operating framework and is based on it, the private operator or the private operating company must also make its money, and thus it is eaten even more of the load within the tight operating framework. And then what is left of the operating budget itself and the quality framework, in terms of everything that is in place here – summed up in terms of safety, safety and well-being? In a liberal context, municipalities could have gained more autonomy and more freedom to choose their own solutions, and we could have had less detailed management and designation. That's now the answer to that. At least outsourcing is not the answer. But that there is a good interaction between both private and public actors in part of our healthcare sector, we have never been against it. We have a story for that, with the Red Cross, the Sanitation and some others inside. But to turn this into a profit for a few strong players will lead to all sorts of bad things in the long term. In addition, when talking about the framework for care for the elderly, you should also be involved in building up the sites needed in 2001, namely 9,400 places. The government's response was 2,000.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e843	Unfortunately, we have to admit that not everything is as it should be in Health Norway. There have been and are still too many isolated deaths that show failure in the care of the elderly. And we're going to be touched when individuals suffer wrong, when the needy elderly are not treated as individuals or individuals with different opinions, desires and needs. Everyone has the right to have a proper assessment of your needs. That must be the very basis of care. But you have to be careful to generalise matters about individuals. There's a big difference between patients, and there's a big difference between relatives. There are trends you have to look down on and relate to. I think it is sad that the interpellant makes this debate a matter of privately driven nursing homes. There are many more causes of unfortunate single events. This case is not about an institution being privately or privately run, nor is it just about resources. Attitudes, ethics and good management are very important factors. The elderly are to be met with understanding and dignity, as was said here earlier, whether the nursing home is public or private. Unworthy elderly care conditions need to be addressed whether the operation is private or municipal. It's just as bad anyway. For the Right, competitive outsourcing is not an end in itself. It's later that the opposition exaggerates that belief. It is a means of getting the best possible quality in the service provision. The principle of outsourcing is that one offer is measured against another to compare quality and cost. We believe that it provides a better basis for good services than a situation where a public operator has a monopoly on the provision of services. We have examples of poor community-run hospitals. And the Health Authority has established that there is no basis for claiming that the quality is lower in private-run hospitals. It is a pity that parties like the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre want to make this a fight against private hospitals. Competitive outsourcing means specifying quality requirements. The municipalities can be more stringent. They can define the needs and then find out what the service should contain. You have to know where you want and what you want. And after a thorough process in the municipality and with good follow-up, grandma can be safe in the nursing home – even if there is a call for tenders. Municipalities that have been exposed to competitive care services are often the most advanced in the field of quality requirements. For the right, the quality of care for the elderly is most important, not who does it. And the Right also trusts that local self-government and the competence of municipalities to find solutions to ensure good care for the elderly are the best. There'll be local variations as long as we're dealing with people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e859	Kari Lise Holmberg finds it sad that this is going to be a debate on privatisation. Yeah, that was stupid! Clearly, the main reason why a debate on quality in the care of the elderly is also a debate on privatisation is that the Right launches privatisation together with the outsourcing of competition as the great rescue for how we can manage to create better quality. When one does not get better quality, it must be allowed to ask some completely basic and simple questions, such as:If this were to give so much better quality, why don't we see that quality? Why isn't this quality coming? That's what we're making up our arguments, and that's when we draw our conclusions about how we want to organise the care for the elderly. And it's fundamentally different than the Right thinks it. It is a sentence in the Sem Declaration that is building up the care of the elderly and the other welfare services in our country, and it is the sentence that less and less of the value creation here in the country is going to go to the community. What does that mean? This means that less and less of what is being run by the community will get money to ensure better quality in the coming years, and that the differences between the public service supply that exists, the community creates together, and the private economy is growing. So it's going to be less quality, not better. A summary of the economy at various private hospitals last year showed that no one went with profit. So they're not going to run that way for a long time. No private limited liability company will operate for a long time when they do not make money. It's no use cutting more than what you've already done. That's when you cut the quality. That's what we see the results of now. It's the cuts to the municipalities that underlie what's going on. Examples were presented that privatisation can also be of quality. But around the municipalities of the municipal committee – where Kari Lise Holmberg is also present – we hear that they say that we have to save money, so we put our homes on offer. It is difficult to make precise quality requirements. This means that there will be more red tape, not less outsourcing. I have a stepfather who works in the industry and works up for bids. He says that for every thing that comes up that is not specifically contractual, you have to argue about who is going to pay. This creates more bureaucracy and difficulties in a completely different way than if this had happened in the public domain. There is no popular requirement for competitive outsourcing. I've never seen a popular reaction to the competition on the lion's tray, in torches with slogans like that. Say, "Grandma's bid now! You're going to do the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e876	Unfortunately, too many simple stories show failure in the care of the elderly, although we must not forget the good work done in the care of the elderly. But we see and experience that many older people do not meet their basic needs. We can't have it that way. For the government parties that are pursuing a policy with man in the centre, this is not satisfactory. On the contrary, it is very serious. From the side of the government parties, we are willing to look at today's system with a critical look, and not least we are willing to look at changes and improvements. We want a constructive review of care for the elderly, with the main focus on the content and quality of services. It is strange to hear the representative Heikki Holmås, who alone makes this a matter of private versus public services, and makes it a main thing for the Right that we only want private solutions. That's not the case. What we see is that where you have private supplements, private hospitals, there is a lot of evidence to suggest that you set stricter quality requirements. It is striking that it is only in connection with the outsourcing of certain hospitals on a competitive basis that municipalities have started user surveys. Why? Just because you're busy with quality! Municipalities that have been exposed to competitive care services are often the most advanced in the field of quality requirements. Competition is forcing municipalities to think through quality issues, to define quality and to lower the requirements on paper. The interesting question here is, why don't all hospitals, public as private, thorough user studies? And why is it that in those municipalities where private hospitals are used, the most frequent use of computer studies has been made? It's the quality that matters, not who delivers the service. For government parties, the quality of care for the elderly is the most important, not who carries out the service. That's why we believe that there needs to be even more to bet on user surveys than that. For us, it's important to focus on what's bothering people. Our older people deserve to get to the bottom of the problems, without worrying about what answer you're going to get. They deserve that we take the problems seriously and see what solutions we can come up with, so that stories like this don't happen again. In order to improve the quality of care for the elderly, it is necessary to find out whether the provision provided is good enough. We can do this only by asking them what's going on, and those who use the services.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e891	The municipalities are responsible, says the Minister of Social Affairs time and time again. That's to push away the responsibility of the social minister. The municipalities should offer the inhabitants what they want, said the representative Beate Heieren Hundhammer from this pulpit. These are just words and have no connection with reality in the municipalities today. The Minister of Social Affairs also boasted of the municipality of Moss, which is run by the Right and the Advance Party, where many hospitals are exposed to competition, without giving the municipality better budgets or better services – on the contrary. Moss municipality is struggling with the economy and trying to get the cheapest offer on time. Now the councilman says that enough is enough. Now there's nothing more to pick up. The representative Holmberg said that competitive outsourcing is a means of getting the best possible quality. You can't do what Moss municipality has done. The supervisor at Mellösparken Hospital has written a letter to the municipality that the condition and quality of the hospital home are very serious. Patients are injured due to lack of care. There are too many sedatives. It's a lack of update. One patient mistreats another. But then the municipality came to inspect and said everything was very well – and cut further in the crew. The municipality is bound by the fact that they cannot afford more money and also handle the cases afterwards. Then we can't believe that the municipality's services get better quality. Now I think the Storting must be conscious of its responsibility. If we believe that older people should be given better quality of the services they are offered, we must also be willing to grant the funds they need to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e902	Unfortunately, there are also years of public care for the elderly. I'll just briefly touch Risenga one more time, and say that Risenga on his side is high when it comes to manning. In fact, they are above the national average in terms of the number of users per person. user. And then a comment about what's being mentioned all the time in relation to Sweden, that there's ended with outsourcing. According to the most recent figures from the SCB, corresponding to the SSB in Norway, and the correspondingness of Swedish business life to the NHO, there is no basis at all to say that Swedish municipalities actually reverse the competitive outlook. However, what is evident in the Stockholm area, where competition has been outsourced for a number of years, is that the trend is now being reversed within a new large domain, i.e. user choice. I am concerned about the quality of care for the elderly. Competitive outsourcing is an instrument. And I have to say that I actually think Municipality-Norway needs more competence in relation to having knowledge of ordering a quality, or a contract competence if you want. However, this applies both to public care for the elderly and to what may be put at a competitive disadvantage. An old lady over 90 years old said to me, "Can't you get the government and the Stortinget to ban the watchrooms, the worksheets and the knitwear?" I think it's quite thoughtful, because I'm of the opinion that Norwegian care for the elderly is very good, but at the same time it shows that not everything is about more money. It's about management, it's about organisation, it's about competence and attitude and recruitment. No, there is no popular requirement for outsourcing, but it is actually a requirement for quality. The representative Molvik is occupied by the employees, so is the Government. But I am actually more concerned that many older people in this country do not feel that they are getting security, not feeling that they are actually getting an offer in the care of the elderly who are of quality. The supervisory reports are too many. The brides are too many. This applies to public as well as to non-profit institutions and thus to competitive institutions. However, there is no basis for saying that the care of the institutions operating under competitive outsourcing is worse or better than in others. There's a real challenge. The experience in the municipalities that have actually taken part in this process of putting out competition, whether it is for the Red Cross or the Salvation Army or for a more private company, is that the process itself is the important one, because you learn to set quality standards for the very contents of the care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e919	The debate has shown that there is a broad cross-political commitment to a more dignified care. But I must say that I find it strange that cork the person who is shaken and shocked every other day about the situation within the elderly sector, the leader of the social committee, or others from his party are present and participating in this debate. The government asked where the Center Party is. The central party will warn against the postponing of care services today as we did when the central government presented St.meld. No 28 for 1999-2000. We thought that the argument has been reinforced in that direction, but notes that the Christian People's Party has changed its view since then, cf. Legacy of the Faroe Islands. What's the leader of the Center Party saying? Well, she has taken the starting point in the municipality of Sarpsborg, and what they say is that they can save 5 pst. of its expenditure if the municipality is more decommissioned. We think there's a lot to get at for greater freedom from municipalities and less regulation. But let me underline: school and care are for us core tasks, and there should be consistency between tasks and means. That's what must be the main focus on the two areas. It was not my desire to glorify the public hospitals in relation to the situation of private institutions. But I think it is right to ask questions in relation to both those who are nurturing and caring, those who are adding and those who are related. What is it that gives a more dignified care? Don't we have anything to learn from the experience so far with the postponement of competition? Is it the cheapest offer that provides maximum security? I thought the experience so far underscores that there are other factors involved. In St.meld. No 28 proposed measures to ensure the quality and better service provision and legal certainty of dentures, skills-enhancing actions and organisational development and leadership. I understand that the Council of State will now bring a message that highlights just these points, and I am looking forward to that message. But let me finally say: the glorification of privatisation in Norway seems to be pure humbug. It is impossible to get a proper overview of all costs and possible savings in the event of a competitive outsourcing. Nor has this debate been refuted. But what one unfortunately has already achieved is to shift the focus away from the fact that we are wearing out one of the most valuable professional groups we have in this country, that is, all those who are currently making a formidable effort in the field of care and care. We must take better care of them than we do today if we are to have a decent care.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e936	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e942	We are then ready to vote on the matters listed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e963	During the debate, Mr Ellingsen put forward five proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit to the Stortinget an action plan to improve the security of police officers.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to make concrete proposals on the introduction of minimum penalties with unconditional imprisonment for offences in relation to the penal code § 127 on violence against public officials. Such a minimum penalty should be higher than 6 months. The penalty frame should also be considered increased to 15 years.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Grand Government asks the Government to make proposals for the introduction of a minimum penalty and a similar penalty framework in Section 128 of the Penal Code on Threats to Public Officials.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to increase the penalties for the killing of police officers to 30 years, with a minimum sentence of 5 years of unconditional imprisonment.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The ruling also asks the Government to consider extending the scope of persons who obtain specific protection under the provisions of the Criminal Code on public servants.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e1011	During the debate, Mr Ellingsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal for a transmission proposal has been referred to by the author of the proposal and is worded as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government initiate a test project for testing the electronic marking of vehicles in order to streamline and modernise police control procedures based on a system such as MicroMark.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e1031	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-03.ana.ud1598e1042	There is no record.
