ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e78	The representatives of Raymond Robertsen, May Britt Vihovde, Olaf Gedrem and Trond Giske, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the Rogaland County: Inger Lise Aarrestad For the counties of Troms: Anna Amdal Fyhn For the South-Trundellag counties: Ola Røtvej and Anne Kathrine Slungård From the meeting alternate representative of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Tone Løwe, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget on Tuesday 18 February, under the representative Inge Ryan's leave, for welfare reasons. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternate, Trond Martin Tromp Setterhaug, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Trond Martin Tromp Setterhaug is present and will take the seat. Five permit applications are available: by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian People's Party) on sick leave of the representative Anita Apelthun Säle from 18 February onwards and until further notice by the Group of the Party of the Left on welfare leave of the representative Kristin Halvorsen on Tuesday 18 February from the Workers' Party on the leave of the representatives Haakon Blankenborg and Thorbjørn Jagland from 18 to 19 February respectively, and on Wednesday 19 February – both to attend meetings of the European Parliament from the representative Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken on leave from 18 February to 20 February in order to attend a conference on the WTO in the direction of the Interparliamentary Union and the European Parliament, in Geneva, and the Winter Assembly of the OSCE in Vienna from 18 February to 20 February in order to attend a conference on the WTO in the direction of the Interparliamentary Union and the European Parliament, in Geneva, and the Winter Meeting of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Vienna On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For the Province of Buskerud: Martin Kolberg For the Province of Hordaland: Pål Kårbø and Bjørn Lothe For the Province of Oppland: Reidun Gravdahl For Oslo: Akhtar Chaudhry3. Bjørn Lothe is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e184	Bjørn Lothe, Reidun Gravedahl and Akhtar Chaudhry are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e197	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 10 minutes each and the Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e208	The matter that we have to deal with today is a matter that has become a repetition in recent years. It started with the government of Brundtland making proposals for changes to the Law on Santa Claus, and changes were made, not as the government of Brundtland suggested in its proposal at the time, but as the majority parties on the Stortinget adopted it. The Christian People's Party was at the time part of the majority who went for a freeway – I might not use the expression freeway, but at least a much more open opportunity for landowners to increase their income. The background for it was simply that there had been a development that showed that the landowners had largely failed to participate in the appreciation that development in society in general had given in recent years. We received relatively soon feedback that this probably got a lot of unfortunate results, and before the law came into force, the government promoted Bondevik I, the central government, proposals that would change this. The Christian People's Party then went out of the majority that we had previously been part of and secured together with the Center Party and the Workers' Party, which voted in favour of this subsidiaryly, a system in which we were to get a maximum price per. the measure of NOK 9 000. When this law was passed, we made it a condition that evaluation should take place when this law had been working for two years, to see if it had had had an unfortunate outcome, or if there was something that was necessary to adjust to get where the Storting thought the right level of Santa Claus would be around the country. There is no reason to hide the fact that there was an enormous attention to this matter in the media, because there were people, not least people with a relatively limited economy, who experienced the difficulties of getting quite significant increases in party fees. When you had not only a fixation fee that was increased by several hundred percent, but in addition had a large barley floor, which you would then have to pay a maximum of 9 000 kroner per. goal for, it became huge sums out of it. The dramatic observations led, among other things, to: that the Workers' Party made various proposals to amend it, as this was not the intended effects of the law. We have looked at this through various discussions in the Justice Committee. It's been taken up in oral question time here in Stortinget. Prime Minister Bondevik has stated in oral question time that the Government was willing to reduce the probationary period for the effect of the law to one year, and that it should then be evaluated. That evaluation actually began before the end of the one year. In the Christian People's Party, we have received many enquiries from outsiders who say, "Now we hope that we can trust the Christian People's Party, so that you share in securing the rights of the landowners." And we've been asked: if the Christian People's Party now plays its cards right and makes sure you get on the side of the parties, you're going to get on the gallop. For the Christian People's Party, such considerations are not important in this matter. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to stress the need for fair arrangements that take account of both parties in this party relationship. Because there is a relationship between two parties. Leases have been concluded that it is important to give justice to take account of what is written, while not forgetting the change that has occurred in society, including in this area, which concerns the development of prices in press areas, both for housing and not least for leisure properties. It has been, and it is, an important matter to make an overall assessment of all the elements in this case. Therefore, the government parties and the majority constellation have been held back from wanting to make binding, decisive statements on how to change the law, if necessary. Here we have to look at all of the different sides. There are difficult balances that need to be made. But there are also some obviously unfortunate statements that need to be corrected. This will be restored by the Government after the evaluation has been carried out. This evaluation will be carried out in cooperation with the parties concerned, both the parties and the parties. In this proposal for a decision which is on the table today, we have this majority vote: ‘The Government is asked, in the context of the evaluation of the impact of today’s law and the opinions of the Stoltenberg Board of Governors, to submit to the Stortinget various alternatives to legislation involving the right to the redemption of housing and leisure fixtures, including proposals for necessary legislative changes.’ We want to take the problem that is obviously present, seriously, but from both sides. It is necessary to be aware that it is necessary to – now I may be a little bold – introduce some kind of private expropriation law. Here, it's important to see that you move out into a violent commissary regarding the possibility of a lawyer's appointment. Here is the opportunity to see an incredible variety of contracts brought into the debate that will necessarily have to be held before the Government submits its proposals to the Stortinget. There's a lot of commitment about the Santa Claus Act, and that's good, because as politicians, we need to also be involved in the sides that people want to call out loud to us. In this case, social security is largely related to having a dwelling and to having a recreational home. However, it is also important to look at this in a perspective of incomes in order to maintain, for example: use around the country. It is important to see this as the necessary subsidisation of farm use, if we think it is necessary. Here we have to pick. We have to decide on this. So what is in today's position is that this decision is to be taken by the Stortinget when the Government has presented its completed work, probably next autumn – at least that's what has been signalled so far. That's why I think it's a necessity to look at the different sides, look at what goes on at maximum prices, but also see them in relation to the size of the plot, so that an empty that's less than a measure doesn't necessarily have to be considered a full measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e243	What we today experience from the government parties and from the government team in this matter is in many ways a good signal that a lot of control has been lost. What we are experiencing is, in fact, that we are now going into – and I am glad – important changes in relation to the rights of landowners, crucial for many, and that, in fact, during this year we are going to get a legal text back to the Storting, so that we can give the landowners a right to redemption on the basis of that document. The 8th proposal now under consideration. I am pleased that we have now begun to grasp the seriousness of the situation, and that not only do we go and ask the Government to come back to the Stortingen regarding the redemption option, but it also speeds up the evaluation that could have been done in our time. The thing is, the consequence of the Santa Claus Act has been clear to us for many, many years. Already seven years ago, when the law was passed, in 1996, the warnings and examples were good enough to understand what kind of serious thing one actually went into. This was so serious even for the Christian People's Party that the first Bondevik government chose to modify the law that had not yet entered into force, by setting this famous roof at NOK 9 000 per year. dekar. Yes, it was just a signal that you saw that there was a serious verdict in the law that you actually chose to fix. But then it would be even more years before this law came into force, 1 January 2002. As most people here would remember, we also had a Document No. Eight proposals from the Labour Party on the entry into force of the Act, where there were also many warnings about what would happen if you went into it in my opinion the pleasure of things that are now in the middle of it. And there's my reverential claim that you're actually not going to get any help during the six months you're now giving yourself up to the harvest, to evaluate this case. We know enough in many ways. The situation has been created by the Government Marine. The parties that have chosen to bring this law into force have many ways of thanking them. It's obviously a big deal. 150,000 landowners for residential purposes are now affected by this possibility of a fee increase, so we have 90,000 cabin fixers. In this way it affects far up to a million Northmen who have some form of partying in connection with the cabin or dwelling. This also makes it a major social issue, which makes it possible that we here next to the rights that many want to point out is in the Constitution, in relation to property rights, also have to look at the social element and the insecurity that is now created for very many owners of housing, especially older people, who, if they have not already been asked for drastically increased taxes, wonder what the future will bring. And that uncertainty is not linked to some luxury property, but actually to the right of living. This is a good reason to ask for information, among other things. The goodwill of the Christian People's Party in dealing with this matter. I am pleased with the opening of the case rapporteur regarding not only looking at the issue of redemption but also looking at the question of reversing the possibilities for the fee increases that have now arrived. That's what the Christian People's Party should do. At that time, the majority of people in Stortinget immediately have to reverse the law, so that the old way of regulating land-fixing charges is restored, according to the price index, which is just fair to the person who owns the land, but also to the person who lives there, and which creates the predictability that these land-owners obviously now have a right to. In addition to this being a big and difficult case that affects a social good in many ways and affects people who have very little capacity to buy the plots for some thoughtful market price, there is also another problem in the matter that should make any politician angry – perhaps primarily politicians from the Progress Party: just to be able to clean up a difficult law. This is a law that is almost impossible to understand for those who are not trained to read legal texts. Few of them are trained to read legal texts, which today can really rely on fully understanding the rules of, among other things. redemption. In this way I think that when you are faced with such a great leap in the fees, and you have an extensive public discussion, you have a duty to implement such laws as the Government and government parties have chosen to do here, to also ensure that the law and the laws and regulations we have are in fact readable and understandable. This is a legal text that now obviously calls for change, because both the issue of redemption and the issue of fees and the fixing of fees will invite so many complex legal processes that only many landowners and weaker parties will be frightened to have their cases settled. There I have to say that I am calling for the government's action in relation to that particular issue. I therefore believe it is good that today in the Grand Duchy we can at least get a majority in relation to the issue of giving the Santa party a right to redemption, and that we also seem to be able to speed up the evaluation that will take place. It's important that it comes as soon as possible. We cannot wait too long with it, because then many more plotters will already have their fees increased. Agreements will enter into force, and there will be difficulties in converting them. So if there is any reality in the wish of the Christian People's Party and in the desire of other parties to do something about charging, it should happen as soon as possible, because the longer the time goes on, the worse it gets. What's exciting about this case is how far we get in relation to the matter of time, but also in relation to the question of whether we can do something about the charging regulation. From the Labour Party we believe that this matter should be taken into consideration in our case, and that we should be able to get from the Government, as Document No. The 8-proposal reads, proposes both what kind of legal requirements you have on your purchase price and how to set the price in a reasonable way for the landowners. In fact, you could simply reverse the law so that you got back the old way of regulating taxes. This could have been done already in ours, and it could have been done in this way for many who are facing regulation, for unnecessary legal processes, uncertainty and insecurity associated with a social good, namely one's own dwelling or one's own cabin. So the invitation is given, and I take up the Workers' Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e264	Knut Storberget has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e267	The Law on Landings is designed to strike a balance between the interests of landowners and landowners, and it is a long step towards ensuring the landowner’s right to a greater return on land in line with the development of land prices. At the same time, it is important that there is no full freedom for the fasteners to set the fees he would like, as the party often has large values in the house or cabin on the ground. However, the right is of the opinion that the law provides a good balance between the rights of fasteners and fasteners. In order to protect the parties, it is expressly provided for a prohibition on the imposition of excessive fast fees. Furthermore, a ceiling of 9 000 kroner per attachment fee has been set. empty, or NOK 9 000 per year. decks for larger areas. It is important to note that this limitation of NOK 9000 could in fact be unreasonable for landowners who attach land away in press areas. For example, the municipality of Oslo: the amount limit means a significantly less return than reasonable from the values of the land. If an owner of a house on a fixed land were to collect a plot value for which he has not paid anything in the event of a sale, it would be totally unreasonable to the landowner. When the media have announced that a seller of a house will now have to sell at a lower price than the price, because the fixation fee has been adjusted in accordance with the new law, it is important to be aware of this issue. The party has also received several rights under the new law, at the expense of the party. The owner now has an almost unconditional right to the redemption of the fixed site, almost a so-called private expropriation right. In addition, the fixation of a leisure property will now have the same right to extend the fastening contract if no redemption is granted – but he will now also have the right to redeem under the new guidelines. No party has been allowed to restrict its rights by virtue of the law, rather on the contrary. The parties are given considerable freedom to regulate their balances in agreements, which the Workers' Party now appears to be opposed. I believe it is a democratic and contractual right that people should be able to agree between themselves, including parties and landowners, what agreement they want, and what legislation they will govern in terms of renting land. Right-wingers should also be given greater opportunity to buy the land they rent, as established in the proposal for a decision today, which the Workers' Party supports in a subsidiary way. The question will be at what price. Paragraph 105 of the Constitution states that if the landowner gives up land, he shall have full compensation: "If the State's debt requires any person to give up his movable or immovable property for public use, he should receive full compensation from the State Treasury." We see that today's law gives us results that could lead to unfairness. It is therefore important for the Right to find a good solution to a problem that actually applies to many. Not only are we going to make it easier to redeem a fixed land, but we're going to actually also contribute to a fairer pricing on redemption. Here comes the Basic Law § 105, which requires market value. However, the market value of a fixed land cannot be determined independently of the book of the fastening contract. It takes greater account of the celebrations than current practice suggests. However, the working party proposes that the parties be able to redeem the land for 25 times the rental price. This implies that the owner of the dwelling, for example: on Senja has to pay the same for his land as the cottage baron on Hyler. This is going to be unreasonable. In order to avoid such unsocial outbursts, the government parties, in cooperation with the Progress Party, have agreed to extend the right to the redemption of fasteners, but of course this must be done in a way that is fair both for parties and for fasteners. I believe that the Workers' Party should have greater respect for ownership than is provided for in the Workers' Party's proposal. If the Labour Party gets a majority in favour of its view, it will be the largest expropriation case in Norwegian history, and it will probably culminate in a large number of legal cases before Norwegian courts. So the Workers' Party says it's unreasonable for the landowner to get the value increase. What kind of view is this of ownership? Would the view of the Workers' Party be different if it was a state or municipality that owned each millimeter of the Kingdom? The fairness of the Workers' Party's approach will, in my opinion, lead to an imbalance in favour of parties, and it cannot be better than an imbalance in favour of a fastener. The Workers' Party's proposal indicates that there are very unreasonable and excessive price increases in the fastening charges. Can it not be that Norwegian landowners, who have taken very, very little money for their plots, perhaps for up to 50–60 years, will not be allowed to raise the rent at a reasonable market price? Is the rental that you've had for 50 years going on forever? I think that's very unreasonable. Therefore, this law has also been introduced, so that you can regulate the rental in cases where it has been very unfair in relation to the landowner's right to charge for the rental of the property. However, a fastener shall not be able to recover from an unreasonablely low fastening charge in the past 50 years, with a dramatic increase in the fastening charge. So last year, we informed our Information Service's fund of a moderate implementation of the law, so that the state does not become the price leader, but the one that is leading a careful phase-in of the law. The examples indicate that you have been careful. The examples that have been drawn have been extreme, and they have not been representative of what has happened to the Santa Claus Institute. The rules on party fees have created problems in practice, but there have been price adjustments for a large part of the post-war period to protect parties from excessive tax increases. On the other hand, this legal regulation has led many landowners to a small reasonable return on their properties by absconding. A ceiling of NOK 9000 is correctly set, which de facto is a transfer of values from the owner of the land to the parties. The working party has a touching concern for the small crew, i.e. landowners, but obviously have not been present when the consequences of a massive tax on homeowners have been adopted – both housing taxes, property taxes and property taxes have been implemented. And if the Swedish model is desired, then it's really bad for the small corps, then it's not going to be per million of the equation tariffs to be taxed, then it's going to be percent of the market values to be taxed. All you have to do is go to the west coast of Bohuslän to experience the conditions that Sweden has, which have probably been used as an example of the Labour Party's policy and their excellent basic ownership. 10-12 pst. by Norwegian plots are attached. 40 pst. are residential property, and 35 pst. are leisure properties. If you were to prohibit the fixing of plots, there would be fewer plots available, and the provision of cabins would be reduced if this law had not entered into force. All historical experience shows that private ownership is the most efficient way to manage society’s resources. In fact, it's a premise for investment that you have had the opportunity to rent land. Many of today's homeowners had no opportunity to buy the land early in the 1950s and 1960s while building houses. So this has been an opportunity for a lot of people to get their own house. In addition, I would like to conclude by saying that it is very good district policy. Landowners in District Norway must have an opportunity to live on their resources, in line with property owners in the city. But it might indicate that villa owners in central districts are nitite guardians over their own gardens, but when they get to the country, things have to be free, and here property means very little. Small users with some property should therefore not be allowed to rent out, but only to sell. I think that's very unfair. Why can small users in District Norway not secure the income base, perhaps the pension existence, for their use in the coming generations, by renting out parts of the land and receiving regular income from it? Perhaps both the soil and the forest are sleek and curvy, perhaps rentals for outdoor purposes and rentals can ensure viable conditions for the settlement in the districts. It is a good district view, and so I hope that it can continue to be for those living in the districts, and that it can be a means of income. We have seen this in a number of places in Hallingdal, in Gudbrandsdalen and also in Hedmark County – Storberget’s own county.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e304	The starting point for a land fastening is a voluntary agreement between two parties. I am so pleased that all parties, probably then except the Workers' Party, see the importance of freedom of contract and thus will not lay the groundwork for deciding what can or cannot be agreed. What has caused problems is that the Storting has made changes to this law so that the weight of the parties to the agreement has been shifted up to several times. The law of Santa Claus can to a large extent be regarded as a law that is patched up a little now and then, and then it doesn't make it any easier for people to deal with. What is important here is to find a balance that safeguards all parties involved in the contractual relationship. The fixed contracts concluded extend over a hundred years, and their content also varies greatly. Not only is the party fee individually agreed, but also how it is to be regulated, there has been freedom of contract, even though the legislator has also been involved and fiddled in that area. And if that's not enough, it's in the matter of other rights, like. the right to wood and other fruits of the property, including individually agreed whether or not to belong to parties or landowners. It is true when there are two parties, that one party should get everything he himself would want it to be, it will quickly be unreasonable for the other party. No one can demand anything that you do not have the right to do, and no one should be required to pay one more time for anything that you already have. The right of use already granted to the landowner for remuneration shall not be reacquired. What has to be redeemed is the residual property right and the termination of the consideration. At the same time, it is obvious that it is unreasonable for a lessee to enjoy or bear the entire loss due to changes in value that are not due to the lessee himself. This is the background for the Progress Party to see that an allocation of value increases or reductions cannot be attributed to any of the parties. I agree with Storberget that this is a complicated law. But now I am not so sure that the Workers' Party is not responsible for this. The contractual arrangements of the Workers' Party and the refusal to fully apply the agreements concluded are just one of the major problems. Regulations and climbs have therefore been introduced to prevent a contractual relationship from working. And then when you remove some of these of the public obstacles, new problems arise. The proposal, for example: to multiply the fixation fee by 25 to find a redemption sum, for which Storberget has been a spokesman, causes clear problems. As I said, it does not take account of any other encumbrances than the rent sum. An empty at Senja can quickly be as expensive or as cheap as a beach plot at Tjøme. I don't think it's very natural. But it might have something to do with the distribution profile of the Workers' Party. Now it is also the case that there were other reasons why you chose a Santa Claus. It was the regulation of the credit market, which was also a problem, imposed by the Workers' Party, when people were going to buy a property: they were simply not allowed to take up loans to buy that land – so they had to fasten. But even today, the Workers' Party is working with a hard hand around the country a ban on sharing that allows you to get point-to-point, but not dislodged empty. For us, it's going to be crucial when you get a redemption right, that you also get the right to possibly dissociate a land, so that you become the real owner of what you've actually attached. We believe that a redemption should be a right for all the parties. The important thing for us is not the size of the agricultural property, but the predictability of the parties. Past practice, including from labor party governments, has been that it is the size or performance of agricultural property that is crucial, not the needs of the parties for predictability, as I understand it is now important. I hope that means that the Workers' Party now wants to give all the parties an equal right. The representative Dybevig stated that the right of redemption in the form to which it is added may have elements of expropriation. In this context, there is a question of the consideration, which we think is the market price, that is, the price that the plot has with encumbrances, which is something other than if you were to put an empty without any encumbrances at all. There is a clear difference between selling a land that a buyer can use for what he wants and selling a land where the buyer is only allowed to collect parts of a fee and is not allowed to use it for his own home or for a leisure home. In this context, it may be nice for the Council of State to take the tax aspect into account by imposing, perhaps reluctantly, a redemption, which would result in a realization that would otherwise not have been achieved, and to see if there is a possibility here. I hope, of course, that the matter will come back as soon as possible. That means that you don't want to have any long delays, but the government needs to get the time needed to get a good and comprehensive assessment and also an evaluation of the state of things. Therefore, it would be natural, from our point of view, for the government to return to the Stortinget with the legislative proposals at the same time as the evaluation, because it would be unnecessary to carry out an evaluation while waiting for legal rules. If some legislative changes have been made first, it would be inappropriate to carry out a separate evaluation of the old rules. I look forward to an overall review of both the evaluation and the adjustment of the law, and I hope that we can do so by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e330	This may not be the first time that the majority of the Grand Duchy has adopted changes that should have had the consequences anticipated in advance. We've seen that in particular in this field, which relates to people's ability to have a place to live. As a student for years not very long ago, I have felt the feeling of the body when it becomes terribly expensive and very difficult to get in. And it's probably no secret that if I hadn't sailed into the Stortinget, I wouldn't have owned a place to live today. At least that's for sure. I think it's important to have the fact that a home is not something you can just take with you – on your back the closest – and stick out of the farm when it gets too expensive. The starting point here is that people have freedom of contract – the freedom to enter into an agreement on how this opportunity to fasten an area is to be practised, as the representative Kukkestad has pointed out quite correctly. But when the agreement expires, it will be our duty to make sure that the fastener cannot take the total freedom at the expense of the person who attaches the plot, simply because you cannot just leave the farm with the house that is built there. This is about people's basic security, as the representative Knut Storberget has pointed out. What has emerged now, and especially because of the great pressure from the representative of Storberget – and more from the Labour Party – over a year, with our support, is that we should get an evaluation earlier than we intended. That is a step forward. It is also a big step forward that the parties are most likely now to have the opportunity to redeem the plot, to get a change of laws, I think, based on the massive pressure that we have seen over a long period of time – precisely because people have in a short time received a fee increase here that has made it totally hopeless for them, and that has given them a high level of insecurity. It's also an advantage. The last time I stood on this pulpit and talked about Santa Claus, the proposal that was adopted by the majority insisted that parts of the plot should be said off. I asked the council if he thought it would be easy to enforce, both because one can imagine that the fastener would not accept the right or the possibility that the party has to say away parts of the property, when the option would be that you could get many thousand extra dollars a year in charge, and also because it is obvious that a party, which may have contributed to the increase in value, should say apart parts of the same plot that they have contributed to the increase in value. This we thought was a bad suggestion. So we're going a step further. It's very good that we are now going to have an evaluation earlier, based on the pressure that has come after we've seen the effects of the law, which has made some people very insecure and perhaps have to move from the place they live, where they may have lived their whole lives, because the majority thought it was important to take greater care of the freedom of abtresses, at the expense of the freedom of people who have used this plot to build their own house on. It's often about market value. But we have pointed out, together with the Workers' Party, that it is hopeless to talk about market value in these matters. The market value cannot be taken into account if you are to have the opportunity to redeem a land – then you have to use the market value when you enter the contract and were allowed to live there – because it would be unreasonable if those who party have contributed to the increase in the value of the land, plus that you cannot see the market value in isolation, because there is actually an encumbrance on the plot, which consists of someone having a house or a cabin on it. SV believes that this right of redemption, for example: may be based either on a system based on 25 times the fixation fee before 31 December 2000 or on the market value of the plot based on the condition in which it was concluded. Then you can subtract the value of the encumbrances resulting from the conclusion of a land fastening agreement. But that would also mean fixing the redemption sum by judgement. SV does not want to abolish the Feast Institute, as the Workers' Party does. We don't want to go that far. This is simply because we see that it can be beneficial, for example. that the government, when remarriageing property, can determine the use to which the property is to be used, e.g.: housing shall be built and no parking spaces shall be established later or the dwellings established shall be cheap if they are to be rented out later. We think that's a big point. There is freedom of agreement in Norway. But as pointed out earlier, when an agreement goes out, most people should at least be sure that this accumulation does not almost lay the ground for abscessors to take the fee they want, or with a ceiling of 9 000 kroner per person. dekar, which in part represents many thousands more than they can afford in a year. So we think that abolishing the entire Santa Institute is going too far. But once again, I want to challenge the Council of State and the Government for the fact that some of the most greedy in these matters have been public owners – state forest we have heard a lot about, which has really behaved like rats to some parties. I believe that the government should take an extra look at this, because we simply can't have it like that. We're going to support the Workers' Party's proposal, despite the fact that we don't want to abolish the Santa Claus Institute. Subsidy, we support the proposal for a majority decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e356	The majority of the Judicial Committee today proposes to ask the Government to submit proposals for various legislative measures that go a long way towards the possibility of the redemption of existing festivities. It surprises me that one from the Right and the Christian People's Party wants to be presented to the Stortinget "various alternatives to legislation that means the possible redemption of parties. The possibility of redemption should cover all fixators». This particularly amazes me by the contributions we have heard from the representatives of the Right and Christian People's Party today, who want to defend both the freedom of contract and private property. In the opinion of the Centre Party, the debate on the consequences of the Law on Landfill has been largely based on individual cases in the media. They may be important, and they may be right. But it can be difficult to draw principle guidelines from these isolated cases. The Central Party agrees with what the Council of State says in its letter to the Committee, that he is of the opinion that we do not know enough to carry out a review, advance or set out the results of the ongoing evaluation. We don't know if the issues are representative or if the application of the rules is correct. That's why the Central Party would advise against giving certain leadership, as we see the majority do in terms of the right of redemption. The centre party will not reject the possibility of making changes to the law, but this should be done on the basis of an overall evaluation where all facts come to the table. If proposals are to be made to help people who have come into economic ruin under the new rules of the Law on Landfills, the price must be lower than the market price. If not, I think the redemption question becomes a pointless question. It's not the right to redemption that's really the problem in the cases we've seen now, but the price that's in some cases set. It is not remedied by what may in reality be an attack, both on the freedom of contract between the parties and on private ownership. I agree with Storberget when he says that the Christian People's Party, Right and Advance Party go far in giving a leadership in relation to redemption rights that must be problematic in relation to the views of these parties on private property rights. A redemption right which also does not allow landowners to decide whether to accept that type of claim would be a major intervention in private property rights. Some people can justly view it as some form of coercive redemption. The question is whether the parties that say that they defend private ownership, but which now open up for redemption, will also allow landowners who own bad contracts to get out and demand the redemption of these contracts. There are landowners who currently have contracts of NOK 100 that can only obtain consumer price indexation. Whether these landowners should also have the opportunity to withdraw from the contracts, the majority position does not state anything about it. An absolute right of redemption will also deprive landowners of predictable incomes that help to generate income for agriculture. It is not least important for the part of rural agriculture that currently has low incomes and new income opportunities. The Labour Party should also be involved – those who were at least previously concerned with small and rural farmers in that country. It would be unfortunate if the Progress Party and the Right say in the setting were to be continued. I believe that the consequence of what the speakers of the non-socialist parties say today should be that they await the whole question of the possible right of redemption until we get the overall evaluation that is announced and that is going on in the Government. That is why the representatives of the non-socialist parties should reject II and vote in favour of the proposal of the Central Party in this matter. The central party will oppose II and will instead propose that the Government submit a comprehensive assessment. We simply don't have enough grounds to predict the consequences of misrepresenting established contractual relationships. We also do not have the facts enough to be able to give leadership in relation to a possible right of redemption. With this, I will be allowed to take up the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e375	Marit Arnstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e378	I am pleased that the majority of the Committee has not joined the Workers' Party's proposal on the accelerated evaluation and amendment of the Law on Santa Claus after it has worked for one year. In my opinion, it would not be appropriate to carry out an evaluation of the law and prepare proposals for legislative changes by 1 April this year. The importance of the land-use fasteners for both fasteners and fasteners indicates that a thorough case investigation is being carried out before any changes to the law are made. Both the Prime Minister and I have signaled in the Stortinget that the Government intends to carry out the evaluation already in 2003 – a year earlier than that resulting from previous decisions on accumulation. As part of the evaluation, the Ministry of Justice has entered into cooperation with the Association of Tomtefesters and organisations on the side of the Feast. The primary aim is to provide relevant factual material on how the law’s regulation of the fast charging has worked in practice. In addition, the Ministry of Justice will organise a hearing with the possibility to make subsequent written recordings. Only after such an evaluation has been carried out will the political authorities, in my view, have a sufficient basis to assess the need for legislative changes. The Judicial Committee has advised the Stortinget to ask the Government to provide different alternatives to legislation that would allow the redemption of fast rooms for housing and leisure purposes, including proposals for necessary legislative changes. In my opinion, there may be good reason to review and evaluate today's redemption rules. My preliminary impression is that on some points the rules may seem unnecessarily complicated. This could be done, for example, by: questions whether different rules are necessary since the contract was concluded before 1976, between 1976 and 2002 or after 2002. The majority of the Judicial Committee has stated that all parties should be able to redeem independently of previous rules and practices. A central question is how the redemption sum should be determined. The majority of the Judicial Committee has here asked the Government to assess the possibility of taking the land on the basis of the land value at the time of redemption, in the form in which the land appeared at the time of conclusion of the agreement. There is a significant challenge in designing redemption rules that should be both reasonable and reasonably practicable at the same time. I will now continue to work on this, and aim to submit proposals for the Storting to the autumn. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of seeing the various questions in the field of land consolidation. Questions relating to fastening and redemption should not be discussed in isolation but should be discussed in the light of each other. This is necessary if legislation as a whole is to contribute to a proper balance between fastenings and fastenings. I therefore think it is an advantage that these questions, together with the other questions in the Santa Claus case, should be dealt with collectively by both the Government and the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e396	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e399	I am pleased that the Council of State clearly perceives the mandate, even after the clarification by the representative Arnstad, of which I fully share the opinion. The significance of the majority decision here is a clear marshalling ground. But to be quite clear, does the Minister of Justice see it as coming back to Stortinget already in the autumn with a proposal to give the Santa Claus the right to redemption? That's the one. The second is the question that has already been raised by several people, who were up in the last debate we had about Santa Claus: the question of the right to say off a part of the empty one you are renting, which the bourgeois parties adopted against major protests. Is it the case that work is continuing on such a reform of the law, and that it will also come to the harvest, or has the ministry chosen to turn around in relation to such a provision? Finally, I would be tempted to challenge the Minister of Justice on the issue of the charging provision, which is the trigger in relation to the whole of this case – the unreasonable results, which the case rapporteur was also very commendable about, as the new charging provision has given, and which at least the case-rapporteur has been informed that there will be proposals to amend the harvest. Is it true that the Government also sees this tax provision as disproportionate and that it will come back with concrete changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e408	The obvious answer to this is that the Storing has repeatedly given the Government work assignments from which the Government will work. This applies both to the last case and to the case today. That procedure will of course be carried out, and the Stortinget will have a case presented to the autumn, as I said. It's been the goal. I have also explained that we have actually started the evaluation we previously said we would speed up. But at the same time, I have said that we need to review the various questions that have been submitted, so that these get a good and factual review in relation to the balances in the contractual relationships that have been addressed. I do not go into those questions now, but I confirm that we have the progress that we have previously expressed, and that I also confirmed in my main post. In addition, there is an independent need to identify what is the basis of fact in the case. Sees one, for example. on the knowledge we have so far, there is a limited number of fixation conditions that are regulated by land value. In the case of one of the big ones, namely the Information Society's fund, they have been dealing with the following since last year: ‘In specific cases, an agreement may be offered to cooperate with landowners of large plots where there is a possibility of redundancies or densities, where parties are offered a agreed fixation fee or redemption sum for their remaining land, against the fact that the fund receives, in whole or in part, the gain from the sale of dislocated land.’ In other words, from last year's information service fund has been dealing with a debate that has also taken place in the Stortinget, where one has a chance to address the issues raised. But the government's responsibility is to deal with the colossal treatment and come back with a properly prepared case – in our opinion – as the Stortinget then deals with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e422	What has particularly worried us is that we have received strong signals, including: by the Feast of Santa Claus, that there are public actors who have behaved like the Greekst and most greedy, and who have made life unsafe for many parties. Then is my question to the Council of State: Will the Council of State and the Government go into these matters carefully before the evaluation and look at how public actors, in particular State Forest, are coming forward in these matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e429	I would like to point out that the historical context in this matter is that it is challenging to find a balance point between the two parties in a fastening relationship. That it is difficult was actually the starting point for the matter when it was presented in due course by the government of Bondevik, and later dealt with with with its own implementation proposals by the government of Stoltenberg. In this context, two parties are to be balanced against each other. But I agree with Mr Thorkildsen that, as far as possible, public opinion, at least in matters as difficult as this, should be sensible. That's why I quoted from a letter from the Department of the Information Society's fund, which went out last year. I have checked myself in the case of State Forest, and after the preliminary information I have, it seems that most of the conditions in the case of State Forest are not regulated, for example. in the case of a valuation clause relating to the value of the land. But it's very possible that these are municipalities, which are also owners and have party relations, that go forward that way. I have no opportunity to go forward in any other way than to refer to how the Information Society's fund has behaved, and will ask that anyone in such a situation relate to it. In some of these municipalities, there are also parties represented in this room, who sit and have the opportunity to exercise a practical political influence on how to deal with these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e438	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e441	The land consolidation system was created to allow ordinary, unincorporated people without property to obtain their own housing or cabin at an affordable price, but also to provide permanent income to landowners who provided their land for rent for the construction of houses and cabins. People were largely happy and satisfied to build their own houses and cabins. For many years the scheme worked well because the rental was cheap, and the landowners behaved neatly to concluded agreements. The scheme was therefore considered to be favourable for both parties to the agreement for a long time. But as the years passed, new generations came into existence and the upscaling of the rentals became a question between the parties, the problems began to come, because the question was whether the rental would follow the usual price rise or the market price for real estate. From then on, there has been a lot of energy from both teams in terms of this scheme. It has created uncertainty and uncertainty and a lot of bad blood between already well-negotiated parties to the agreement. As you know, it's not that the owner of the house can take his house and move if Santa Claus becomes invincible. The governments of the Workers' Party have over the years seen these problems and have therefore made repeated revisions of this law to bring about changes in the law that would benefit the housing and cabin owners in the Santa Claus system. Every time, the bourgeois majority has turned this law to the advantage of the landowner. In this way, the Law on Landing has shown the traditional dividing lines between those who own land and those who rent land. Where the political dividing lines go in this house, this case has also shown with all clarity over the years. Nearly one million people are affected by this scheme. When the Bondevik government introduced the new Landfill Act on 1 January 2002, it did not take long for the first horrors to be given as to what the last amendment led to in terms of increasing land prices for landowners around the country, which we had already foreseen for the Workers' Party in the autumn of 2001, but which the bourgeois majority would not realise. The Labour Party considers that the entire Landfill Institute should be wound up in the long term because the scheme is conflict-making by the two-handed distribution of the ownership of the land and the dwelling. The law is difficult to understand because the provisions are unclear and create extensive disputes, with expensive lawsuits between the contracting parties. The civil majority reiterates that land fasts are an agreement between two parties, an agreement which is voluntary. But we now see many examples of land-fixing agreements being disputed by landowners who believe that they can increase rental prices much more than what is contractually agreed, and what the law allows. The Workers' Party considers that landowners should be given easier access to the right to redeem their land at a reasonable price and that the landowner's rental should be regulated only as price increases take place. We believe that we have seen that the new law already fails for the Santa Claus parties, and that the Government must therefore return to the Stortinget as soon as possible with an evaluation and new amendments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e460	The new 1996 Law on Landfills entered into force on 1 January 2002. The purpose of the law is to take account of two parties, both the owner’s right to buildings and structures and the ownership of the land by the owner. The size decided in June 2000 to evaluate the law’s rules on fastening fees and their practical effects after the law had been in place for two years, i.e. in 2004. So the government has now decided to accelerate the evaluation, which has already begun in 2003. In the period following the entry into force of the new Santa Claus Act, there has been a major debate on the Santa Claus Institute. In particular, the increase in the party fee has resulted in an adverse impact on older residential and leisure properties on several objectives, which are located in press areas. So it's not like everyone's complaining about the Santa Claus Act, and everyone's having problems with the price increase. It is important to stress, because when the representative Rui and others produce single examples, there are very few examples compared to the hundreds of thousands who have attached empty and who are satisfied with the scheme. For those with low income, there has been a strong financial burden, especially in the press areas, where there has been a sharp increase in some plots. The working party has been high on the track, talking about the cause of Santa Claus and criticising greedy owners of land. In several games, it seems like you've forgotten that many landowners over a long time have received very little return on their properties. In the last year, the size has dealt with several proposals from the Workers' Party, ranging from prohibiting fastening contracts to forced redemption. They have been busy and seem to have forgotten that they agreed to carry out an evaluation after the law had worked for some time. Repeated media plays and suggestions have created considerable uncertainty both for landowners and landowners, and it is now time for us to get a thorough review of the law and make the adjustments we see are necessary. It is therefore gratifying that the Government has started its evaluation, and in relation to the proposal of the Centre Party to submit an evaluation, it is then time to open doors. There is now an overall evaluation going on, and it should also include the elements the majority uses. But the main thing is to get a review of the Santa Claus Act and its effects. The bill we are dealing with today is about introducing a statutory right for the attachment to redeem the property. The representative Storberget has proposed a redemption sum of 25 x the fixation fee. As others have experienced, this can seem very unreasonable, depending on where this plot is located in the country. We must not forget that the very basis for the party relationship is a voluntary agreement between two parties. So no one has been forced into a ceremony, and no one is forced to attach their plot away. The landowner may have chosen to remove parts of his land to secure the return on the property without disposing of the land. This provided an opportunity to manage a property for pleasure also for future generations. When the legislator intervenes in this contractual relationship and requires a landowner to dispose of his land according to specific criteria and a particular valuation, it is important to make very thorough assessments and balances. Unfortunately, since the law came into force, it has been shown that it provided the basis for a strong increase in the fixation fee in some press areas, which I have previously had to deal with. That's also why we now want to make an assessment of the possibility of redemption. In the light of the experience we have had so far, it is important to find a good solution to the problems that have emerged since the law came into force. We would therefore like to make it easier to redeem a fixed land, but would stress that it is very important to find a fair pricing that also safeguards the rights of the landowner. The other criteria for entitlement to redemption must also be carefully considered. How long shall the attachment remain in order for the attachment to be entitled to redeem the land? The issues raised by the Basic Law § 105 in relation to a right of redemption must also be carefully considered when the Government presents the various options for redemption and valuation. A valuation that gives the attachment the right to buy the land at 25 x the attachment fee, as the Workers' Party proposed, would, in my opinion, be very unreasonable for many landowners. An annual fixation fee of NOK 9 000 for a land by the sea in the central east will give a right to redeem the land for less than NOK 250000. It would be a robber's purchase for the party, but in many cases very unfair to the landowner. In our opinion, we need to consider a determination that is more firmly anchored in the market value of the plot. The Law on Landings was designed to strike a balance between the interests of landowners and parties. The law has been a step towards ensuring the right of the landowner to a greater return on the land in line with the development of the land prices. It has been an important principle for the Right that the authorities should not intervene unnecessarily in the general freedom of contract. These principles will also be important when considering any changes to the law. When Storting now opens up to assessing different solutions that can give fasteners the right to the redemption of fasteners, the rights of landowners will be central to our assessment of value-setting options.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e488	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e491	The security of owner-occupancy is one of the basic welfare goods we have, and it has been a great political effort through generations to ensure people's own housing and the security it is in owning, either themselves or with others in a housing co-operation. One of the major political issues over the years has been housing taxation. The sitting government agreed in the Sem statement to reduce this by removing the tax on benefits, and so the same batches are behind the biggest tax increase on many dwellings that have ever happened. That the Progress Party, which was founded to reduce taxes and taxes, has been involved in this, is more than strange and tells us that the party has not completely taken over its own claim to take over the role of small crew party. A decent plotter should be a more important matter than cheaper SMS messages. I am pleased that it now seems to be able to become a broad majority in order to correct the adverse effects that the new law has brought, and lay the foundation for a more sensible law-making in the future. But the crucial thing is if the government comes back with a fair arrangement for a redemption basis, which will lead to a right to redemption being real to most people. When I hear the representative Carsten Dybevig, I'm a little worried if the Right has taken the seriousness of the verdicts that the new law has given. Deep-sky called for the Workers’ Party’s ‘respect of ownership’. There can probably be a lot of legal doctorates about these considerations, and I don't know what the law would end up on, but I think that, in people's opinion, there are two property rights that stand against each other, the landowner's ownership of the property and the owner's ownership of the dwelling. We cannot accept that a landowner who may have had income on the land for 50 years should be able to praise the owner of the dwelling from house and home and thereby undermine the ownership of the owner-occupied dwelling. It is not politically possible to consider that maybe 300,000 families should be able to lose the right to use their own housing. And then Dybevig was worried that the supply of land would be lost if the landowners were not satisfied enough. A large majority of residential and cabin property on fixed land, particularly in the districts — for which Dybevig was particularly concerned — is located in areas with no alternative value for use. The alternative to income on land sales or fasts is no income. Therefore, the queue of landowners is also quite large when municipalities roll out their land plans and have to allocate new areas to residential areas or cottages. There are some people here who say that the landowners have the opportunity to plot plots as they please. It is strongly regulated, and it is a scarce asset that the landowners are in line to avail themselves of.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e504	I record that the representative of Greece and the Right believes that our proposal is so straightforward and okay that it is like opening an open door. Nevertheless, I cannot record the fact that the government parties will vote in favour of such a natural proposal. But I'll take note of that. I do not want the proposal to be put to the vote and would therefore ask for it to be converted into a transmission proposal. We in the Central Party are then comforted by the fact that the Council of State is considerably clearer than the majority in the Committee, both in terms of the need for an overall review and also the need to clarify all the facts before taking a further position on the matter. I would also like to inform you that the Central Party wants to vote against II.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e512	The representative of Storberget has said in this debate today that before the law came into force it was warned of its consequences. Yes, the Labour Party formulated itself in many different ways, but as it was perceived by us who were present and took part in the debate, the unilateralness of the Workers' Party was not an invitation to cooperate on the solution. The debate today has also shown that the status of the Workers' Party is one-sided. It's sad, because this is about two parties. It is important for the Christian People's Party to underline it. Then I would also like to be allowed to state that it surprises me that the Workers' Party in a way does not accept total responsibility in this case. In fact, the law was the result of the Workers' Party providing its subsidiary support for this proposal. There were other proposals in the Chamber which could have been given a majority, if the Workers' Party had not given its support to the proposal such as: The Christian People's Party was involved and promoted. And after the law was passed, the then state councillor Harlem contacted the Christian People's Party and signed to secure back coverage for the content of the regulation, so that one should be sure that there was a majority behind it in the Storting. Then it is not possible to just waive the total responsibility. But it's not important to look back, it's important to look forward. That's what we're invited to do. So what the government has said is to relate to the totality. The totality is often much more complicated than what single examples show in the media. There will be many different conditions associated with land retention, e.g. conditions for the acquisition of a farm. It will be a major challenge for the Government to identify the legislation that provides the best possible level of fair land prices both for possible redemption and as a basis for fixing prices. The content of the proposal of the Centre Party is not opposed, but what the Centre Party is asking for is already too far in the process of being implemented in the Ministry. It's part of this government party has clearly expressed, just like the Council of State, also here in this hall. That is why it is okay for the Central Party to have turned this proposal into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e523	A small comment on the question of making changes to the consideration for land fasteners. From our point of view, it's very important here just to get the evaluation in place to see how the different outcomes have been. That is why we believe that the evaluation should coincide with any legislative changes, in response to what may have occurred, and we do not want an evaluation entirely in the air. When discussing the question of this remuneration, the representative Hansen had at best a creative interpretation of what should be the similarity between the remuneration for renting land for a landowner on the one hand, and the state's fiscal charges as such on the other. It may cause wrong associations that remuneration for renting land is called a fixation fee and not a fixation fee, but I believe, however, that most of the representatives in this hall know what is the reality behind the words. Both the debate and the further work are best served by a relationship with reality and not trying to misjudge demagogic tricks.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e530	The fact that it is a complex matter and difficult situation fully demonstrates this debate. It also showed the previous debate we had on the same topic. As some have pointed out, legislation and legislation are also of such a nature that they can challenge some of us. It is therefore necessary and sensible to carry out an evaluation and review of the law now, to clear up the areas of misunderstandings and misconceptions, in order to obtain a more unambiguous law and legislation that will make it easier for people, but also not least for the courts to try these matters. What I would like to comment on is the previously mentioned proposal from the Workers' Party on the 25 x fixation fee. I registered that the representative Storberget will have the word after me, and it would be interesting if he could say anything about how the number 25 came up. Because I have, along with the representative Storberget, had the pleasure of thinking a little bit about whether it was possible to find an easy way to do this. However, my conclusion at the time was: it was not. But if the representative of Storberget has found a sareptac truck, and there found 25 x the attachment fee and the reason for it, I look forward to hearing what accounts for the great number. I'm sure he'll take that on board, as I know the representative of Storberget. Another thing that I could imagine challenging the assembly, even though it's far out in the debate, is in the mood. It has been mentioned by some that there is a shortage of plots in Norway and that this was the reason why it was put in place. If that means that those who have pointed it out want to do something about it, it should definitely be possible in this room. Because in that case, there is the possibility of doing something about agricultural policy in relation to the law of the land and the law of the concession and, not least, perhaps thinking a little new and allowing farmers to rule their own property more than is the reality today. Today we have a code that countries east of us have left, but to which the Norwegian peasantry unfortunately is still exposed. So if it's the case that the parties that like to count themselves non-citizens want to do something about that piece and let the farmer get back the "right of sail" – to use a popular term in those circles – this hall should be suitable for a creative proposal from some of these parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e539	First of all to the representative Marthinsen, who pretends that you shouldn't stay in history, but who actually uses a lot of his post on history – false history. There is a clear answer to the question of the vote of the Workers' Party over the years: there has been a vote against the abolition of price regulation in relation to land-fixing charges. It won't take me long to go through those documents if necessary. Under the Bondevik I government, the Workers' Party asked questions in relation to the 9 000 kroner rule, whether we would participate in the formation of a majority to limit the adverse effects and put a roof on the madness. And we couldn't say no to that. That's what we're up to today. And it was only the Right and Advance Party that said in the same big paper that the limit of 9 000 kroner should be removed. So this situation could actually be considerably worse. If you're going to stay in the history of this, and also in relation to the question of the entry into force of the law, if it has any meaning in relation to the Santa Clauss who are currently waiting for a clear response from the Storting, it's actually the other parties that have driven this forward. And there the Workers' Party has been ready in the last few years. Then I want to stay a little longer in relation to the issue of freedom of agreement, which has been brought forward several times, and that the Workers' Party should restrict the freedom of agreement in many ways. It's an academic discussion. In this country, which is a well-developed social democracy with many laws and regulations that we are pleased with, some of us are not happy about, so is the fact that on all sides and sides we regulate contract freedom quite so far, and with the support of the Progress Party – consumer law, disposal law, it goes back to banking, and we limit and restrict the freedom of contract. And the Progress Party is perhaps the first party to support such restrictions, so this discussion that the representative Kukkestad is trying to draw up about the freedom of contract is not relevant to the issue we are facing. And to the extent that it is relevant, it must at least be a signal from the Workers' Party that there is one area in which we need to limit the freedom of contract, it is precisely in relation to people's right to live, and that you provide the social security network that you need. So the representative of Greece was in the middle of the question that media playback in many ways had created a lot of uncertainty. Then there is reason to note that it is primarily the law change that has created problems in relation to this law. Time does not allow me to go so deep in relation to the rule of 25 x the attachment fee, but I would like to do so. If you go into the regulations of the Ministry of Justice in relation to the law, the capitalisation factor comes in there, and at 20 or 25 x the rental amount you find the present value of such a return. It is practised in compensation for personal injury, it is also practised in determining the present value in relation to land fasts. So it's not something seductive, it's a pretty good solution technically as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e550	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1931]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e570	The background for today’s interpellation is primarily a heart attack in relation to the way in which crime prevention is carried out. First of all, I hope that we largely agree on the actual description of alcohol-related violence. Massive Norwegian and international research has shown a clear link between alcohol use and the practice of violence. It is not an alcohol use that can necessarily be attributed to addictive environments; it is largely related to men between 20 and 30 years of age, who do not characterise themselves as large consumers over time, but who may be there when it is on. And in such a situation where we see that 60-70 pst. Of the violent crime with which we justice politicians are very concerned about trying to get something done, it may be natural to focus a searchlight on what is behind, and not constantly, as we – and all of us – have been able to do when it first snaps, or there is some tragic episode, to focus the political attention around this. That's what I want to stay by, and maybe this debate can give both the Storting and those who are involved in reducing the crime of violence in the departments and the Government, to move the focus somewhat, and give themselves the chance to move focus, so that we don't just talk about more police and more severe penalties when these serious incidents first happen. We have to try to realize that the fight against crime is actually a combination exercise. It assumes that at a time when we feel that crime is getting both rougher and rougher and perhaps growing in some cities, it's about keeping our heads cold, so that we get time and political resources to discuss what lies ahead. That is why I believe that the fight against violence in Norway today does not escape a rather sharp focus on the issue of the Norwegian people's total consumption of alcoholic beverages. In my view, it is precisely the total consumption of alcoholic beverages, whether legal or illegal, that is a good indicator of whether we succeed in combating violence and preventing unfortunate outcomes. For a long time, the total consumption theory has been accepted for learning and this shows us that the more total consumption in Norway increases, the more unwanted behavior we get. The only dangerous road in the long term to reduce the problem — as we have seen when consumption goes down — has been to reduce everyone’s consumption. And it's also interesting politically that you have some focus on what creates fewer patients, what creates fewer prisoners, what creates fewer survivors, and what creates fewer insults, and not only establishes new arrangements for those who are left, build new hospitals and prisons and create more police posts. We're going to do the same thing, but I'm afraid that the recent focus on both police and methods sometimes makes us forget that there's something in front of us. In the opinion of many, the traditional information campaigns are not enough in this field either. It can be liberating in times when we see that drug use among younger people is growing, to focus most on information campaigns against that group. These campaigns become valuable only at the moment that we are able to link the problem to the behaviour and actions of the adult society in particular. And that's exactly what it has shown through the restrictive line that has been followed in Norwegian alcohol policy over the last ten years. Taking care of the Vinmonopolet as a system, ringing around the ban on advertising, having a fairly high level of fees, saying that there should be clear provisions in the alcohol law in relation to the number of points of entry and turnaround times, and indeed it has been a campaign of information, which, together with explanatory information, will help to keep Norwegian alcohol consumption and, again, Norwegian crime of violence and Norwegian alcohol-related crime at a European level. And that's what we might be able to comfort ourselves with in such a debate that this is not the debate of hopelessness. This shows that Norway has had mechanisms that have contributed to our success in many ways. What is the starting point of the interpellation is that this is a situation that is threatened, and that we actually see that both the wine monopoly, the alcohol advertising ban and our own alcohol charges are getting a de facto threat against them, if not a legal one. And that's what I want to challenge the government on: what do we do in relation to this? Are we willing to think about new things to take care of such a policy? I am not a dogmatic person in the case of Norwegian alcohol policy, sail if it might sometimes work like this. In fact, I want us to try to have an alcohol and drug policy that will also be effective in the future. And I see that many of the tools we've been playing to now, we need to revitalize. My challenge is going on, and we also see this drawn up in the Government's action plan, how we should be able to revitalise international cooperation so that we can survive and continue some of the instruments we have in the drugs policy in Norway. I mention in particular the advertising ban, the wine monopoly and also the level of fees. And that's where we've seen a happy development in Europe and in some other countries. In fact, it has started to look at this as an effective tool, and this is where I believe that Norway should provide much more assistance than today and come with pressure in the forums where you meet, and can meet, to ensure that this is also an important standard when discussing health, environment and safety, whether it be in the World Health Organisation, in EEA forums or elsewhere. That's the call in the interpellation. I think we'll lose a lot if we in Norway in the next ten years get a consumption trend that is much higher than the one we've seen now, given that we have to let go of traditional alcohol policy measures because we haven't turned around them internationally. It will give us justice politicians, we who are committed to fighting crime, much to do in the future, because this will probably create a much more insecure situation for the people who live in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e588	Both research findings and police experience show that there is a close link between alcohol consumption and violence. There is no doubt that the average alcohol consumption of persons over the age of 15 has increased in recent decades, although there is no detailed overview of the proportion of privately imported alcohol, smuggled alcohol, private beer and wine production and home burning. Average per capita alcohol consumption The population remains low in Norway compared to other European countries. I would like to stress that the aim of the Co-operation Board is to reduce total alcohol consumption and that only long-term and systematic work will produce results. In October 2002, the government presented an action plan on drug problems. A number of measures are proposed: reduce the total turnover of alcohol-altering harmful drinking patterns reducing the illicit placing on the market of alcohol-elevated debut age for alcohol-enhancing the digestion of non-alcoholic zones and situations; The police have invested heavily in various forms of prevention to reduce alcohol-related crime. This includes cross-border cooperation in general social planning, policy strategies and objectives, health and lifestyle, housing planning, growing-up conditions, leisure, working life and, of course, also in relation to the development of crime. The ‘Prevention Police Action Plan 2002-2005’ places great emphasis on problem-oriented police work, a way of working where police activities are based on a systematic use of different sources of information. The development of problem-oriented police work is based on a recognition that police competence and resources are largely triggered only after a criminal offence has been committed, and that resources are allocated on the basis of an objective of resolving and rectifying criminal offences, rather than trying to reduce the number of new cases. By using a problem-oriented approach, the police will focus more on the causes of crime. Alcohol-related crime must be reduced by police identifying and raising awareness of different problems and taking the necessary action with those involved. This can be cooperation with municipalities which, in the light of the knowledge of police crime, can prevent the establishment of restaurants in special areas from being allowed, so as to reduce large numbers of intoxicated persons at closing hours. Another concrete example is that the police inform taxi companies about problems related to taxi cows. Based on this knowledge and awareness, companies will be able to assess different measures, such as: to increase the number of taxi stops or to deploy the staff controlling the queues and thereby dampen the muskets. The knowledge of crime related to restaurants and nightlife by the police shall also apply to non-governmental organisations, for example: Nightclubs, and the public through increased use of the media. The experience of the police suggests that individual citizens can, by their own behaviour, contribute to the prevention of violence. This is also supported by research, which shows that victims are also heavily drunk at the time of violence. In the most vulnerable cities and agglomerations, it will be relevant for the police to initiate cooperation projects between restaurants and bars, municipalities and the police. The key to success will be that those involved are motivated and responsible for different actions over time. In this way, active police exposure is essential in these cooperation projects. The police themselves shall use the knowledge from monitoring and analysis to enable the operational police force to target its activities against priority problem sites and to prevent at times and in places where such crime is committed. The presence of the police will also contribute to an effective response to violent crime. Another measure that the police assess on a case-by-case basis is to regulate car traffic at places and at times experienced by intoxicated persons. The police recognize the need to improve interaction with the public and other public authorities. There are methods of sanctions other than those available to the police, which can help to change the conditions for the development of crime. An example of this is the withdrawal of grant. It is therefore important that the police cooperate with other relevant actors. As part of efforts to address problems, the police shall give priority to: to be visible where violence and other crime usually occurs, including the use of uniform patrols at places and at times where there is an experience of the risk of violence, intimidation and harassment, etc. to deport persons and groups which pose a real danger to others to keep the environment under surveillance by civilians in order to try to lie in front of them, as well as to increase the feeling of increased risk of detection of potential offenders bringing disorder to persons under the police law, including as a general preventive action by others to see that the police react to undesirable behaviour to cooperate closely with outreach and child protection on the outreach work to develop relations and to offer an offer to children and young people at particular risk Many police districts participate in the so-called SLT model, i.e. cooperation on local crime prevention measures. As an example, it may be mentioned that, among other things: Troms Police District participates in a cross-border cooperation on drug policy action plan in seven municipalities with a focus on prevention, and they participate, among others. in a municipal, transnational child protection network, where there is a focus on drug abuse/criminal problems in parents and care problems. The experience of Troms will be passed on to the other police districts. Crime of violence is often linked to serving sites. Police should therefore give priority to introducing preventive measures in cooperation with the restaurant industry. Police districts require service points to have approved law enforcement officers/doorkeepers if this is deemed necessary. The door guards/doorkeepers must then take courses such as: shall contribute to reducing the number of disturbances of violence and order in and around the various outdoor areas. In order to be issued with a certificate as an approved janitor/doorkeeper, participants must complete the course in addition to having approved a good repute. Several police districts have facilities where the patios are visited by uniformed patrols in the evening and at night. Oslo Police District carried out in 2002 ‘Vold i Centrum’. Different sections/stations in the police district have participated to maximise the scope of action. In addition, cross-border cooperation has been very important. In Oslo a total of nine institutions have contributed to this cooperation. ‘Central violence’ is continued in the Oslo Police District as well in 2003. In the spring of 2001, the Directorate of Drugs took the initiative for a pilot project, ‘Responsible Hostship’, in the municipality of Bergen. The target group was key personnel, i.e. persons with decision-making powers in the holding. The aim was to train staff to prevent and reduce drugrelated violence. This cross-border cooperation has been very useful and has produced very good results. The good experience gained in, among others: Oslo and Bergen, are to be passed on to the other police districts in Norway with a call to follow-up on the basis of local situation and needs. The Police Directorate is making a manual for the police districts. The manual shall be completed during 2003. This transparency and increased availability are seen as a good thing, but it also has to be met. The police are planning to meet these challenges that alcohol use, especially in the centre lines, leads to both crime and other insecurity. Let me also add that it lies as part of both the plan of action I have referred to, and also the commissions given to the police, that one, for example. At an appropriate time in secondary school, parents are required to inform about the local drug and drug situation in view of the need for parents to be aware and aware of what is happening locally. When that proposal was made in its time by the undersigned, the natural reaction among young people interviewed in the East Consignment was that it is good that Dad and Mom know a little. The point of this is that the prevention of which the representative Storberget is concerned, of course, extends far beyond the general police. So when I talked about the police's efforts here, it's the police as the organizer that different groups can help to cooperate, I thought about. Of course, this challenge also goes to others, whether parents, schools or responsible municipal bodies — everyone has the opportunity to merge. Let me also mention that last year I visited a high school in Akershus, where students at school have created a strong awareness of drug problems, and have done so in a way that I think there is reason to stress. They have said the following: You must not go around and operate with terror propaganda. You have to talk about proper things to those who are involved, whether they are younger than you or older than you. If you do that, there's a chance that you can succeed. I personally think that was wise words, for there is no doubt that listening to those who are going to be the target of our concern, especially the young, but also others who take experience further in life by their growth, is all possible reason to do so. And taking along such wise words, that you should talk carefully about what can become a serious problem, and talk about it in such a way that people become engaged, is a form of work I believe in. This is why, among other things: The Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with other departments, mainly the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, held a number of conferences around the country around it, where good forces are being gathered in a common arena to discuss how to act together in cooperation to be good role figures and to contribute to, for example, Youth and others in the process of losing their foothold are given an extensive hand in time. Part of this has been to talk clearly about parents not being convicted of the predicament syndrome, that is. that when we need help, it should not be seen as a problem, but as a challenge that others should do their utmost to meet. I share the perspective of the representative of Storberget that both combating drug problems, avoiding recruitment to violence with a background in rushes and stopping the development of violence require broad cooperation, and I believe that this is what the Government has also proposed in its action plan on drug problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e670	Thank you for your answer! That's good. I think we agree on the fact and the context. It is very important, too much of the debate on drug policy — at least in post-war Norway — has been a very much debate on what the fact is. I also say that because I believe a lot of what a collective Justice Department has done in its budgetary positions in the last two years, has actually been pointing out this context – perhaps with the exception of the Progress Party. But it has been largely combined, and the relationship between alcohol and violence and other crimes has been pointed out in clear order. They have also pointed to the situation around the tipping points, which there is absolutely reason to take seriously. There is also reason to point out in such a debate to the most keen, who, of course, also want to reduce illicit consumption, that this is a context. At times when the legal consumption of alcoholic beverages is growing in Norway, we have also seen growth in illicit consumption, both of illicit alcohol and of narcotic drugs. It's a kind of context that too many people can become socially distressed because it means that we all have to take responsibility for this issue in many ways. What I want to challenge again is the Minister of Justice, and what I felt he did not respond to, and which is central to the interpelation, is that more alcohol policy instruments are under pressure. I mentioned the wine monopoly, but the ban on alcohol advertising is also obvious under pressure. We see how the Swedes struggle with it. And we have seen how the fees are being pressed – actually from day to day. What will happen if we approach and harmonise this in relation to the European standard in these areas, and what will happen to Norwegian alcohol consumption and to the Norwegian alcohol tradition and then an increased violence situation? What do we do about this – does the government have some strategy, internationally, an alternative to fending off the instruments that have actually been seen to be quite successful – at least until now?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e681	I feel that the representative of Storberget, with his scheme to discuss constructively how to combat violent crime with a background in drugs, is now on the way to a classical alcohol policy debate. That's fair enough, but I felt like it wasn't where we were supposed to be. The policy of the Government in these areas is set out in the Sem Declaration. Challenges in relation to social relations with other countries are something that concerns us all, but if the representative Storberget wants me to try to think out loud and try to look into a glass sphere I don't have, I think it has to do with a strange relationship. The strange thing is that we're still living in an incredibly transparent society. There is no kindergarten group or school class in this country where you can't see it if something wrong starts to happen. And we still have a very strong organisation of civil society through non-governmental organisations, which have a strength. There is often a death sentence on this civil society and the voluntary organizations, but it is species again. It's not long since I was at a school here in Oslo where the parents met up in what's called best TV broadcast time, to discuss close and serious questions because this took them up. Working politically in that way means actually meeting parents and others who are engaged, directly. This will usually have to happen without the media's projector lights, and it's okay enough, in my opinion, because politics isn't always about being able to launch guarantees for the easy solutions, but it's about tough determination, about enduring. And one of the prescriptions that I've always believed in, and that I strongly believe, is that when you're a so-called authority person, you try not to get so big that you don't want to engage in a conversation with them. Doing old-fashioned public education in direct relation to people is still a privilege here in Norway. We still have politicians in this Chamber and in local politics who think it is quite natural. In fact, those who do not perceive it as natural are seen as more ‘outward’ than ‘inward’ in Norwegian policy. It's still a common good we have. On the day we lose it in common so that some of us become spin doctors, as it is called in modern Norwegian, or let us manage some advertising-funded version of what we really should look like, both as party members and as state councils and gamblers, we have a problem far beyond the concerns of this debate. But as long as we have the closest opportunities both as political leaders, as parents, as adults and as role figures to be in direct contact with the people involved, that's what's unique, strong and strange. And holding on to it means tough and steady work. It doesn't always give you the big headlines, but you the world, it can give you the reward of seeing that it benefits people the way it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e692	In recent years, the availability of alcohol has increased and the price has fallen. Studies show that these two factors increase alcohol consumption in all age groups. We see that the rush shower is not only sold to them over the age of 18, which was supposed to be from this house, but it is also allowed to be sold in the grocery stores to those who are younger. We know that the drug shower is an alcohol type that strongly appeals to young girls and women. We have also seen studies showing that two out of three parents of minor teenagers believe that their children have never drank alcohol or that they believe that most high school youths have tried alcohol once. The reality shows us that 14 out of 15 children in grade 8 are trying to drink alcohol during this school year, and they do it several times. Norwegian parents believe very well about their children, but in the case of their own drinking habits, the same parents will not do anything to reduce their consumption. Studies show that 10 pst. of the children experience violence against their mother, and that about 40 pst. of these children will suffer permanent damage from what they have experienced. We know that much of the violence against mothers is being perpetrated in the alcohol-induced state by the father of the children. These children will often have problems like anxiety about performance, stress and insecurity; they will often let their own experiences go out on other children, and they often get sick of bullying. This has been said by the sitting government that they will have as far away as possible in the shortest possible time. There is evidence of a clear link between alcohol and crime outside and at home. The measures presented by the Government in its action plan are good, but we should perhaps also consider other concrete measures. We know, for example. that prospective parents are invited to a few hours of maternity training, but there is no training for parents in how to be good role models for their children in relation to the use of alcohol for the rest of their lives. Maybe you should also have a course very early for parents about this at the health centre? This government has taken the struppetition of the local economy. I hear that the Minister of Justice says that there should be an impact on parents in high school, but can the schools afford it when they are going to go on austerity? Municipal, non-alcoholic youth clubs are being closed down due to poor municipal economy. Does the government not see that this can lead to increased alcohol use among young people and thus crime? Finally, can the Government envisage producing an alcohol policy social account to see how much alcohol consumption in society costs per capita. years? I would like to expect increased crime, increased social expenditure, child protection expenditure, increased physical and mental damage in the health sector and sick leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e707	The representative of Storberget addresses an important issue. Unfortunately, the answers to reducing alcohol-related crime are not simple. I am pleased that the representative Storberget got on a straight line in his speech, while the representative Rui took the opportunity to distribute turns to the Government and accuse the government's policy of providing the basis for increased alcohol consumption and subsequent violence. It's too cheap. And when the representative Rui also claims and says from this pulpit that some people allow rusbrus sold to people under 18 years of age, at least no one in this room has opened up to that kind of practice. It's going to have to be hard on it. Research results show that there is a link between a number of forms of crime and drug use. Alcohol policy is therefore central to reducing crime, and it is important that we have a realistic alcohol policy. In addition, the police have a key role to play in preventing violence and unrest, which is a consequence of urban consecration. In autumn 2002, the government presented an action plan on drug problems. The starting point of the Government’s alcohol policy is that alcohol is a legal product, but at the same time has major adverse effects on individuals and society. The long-term objective of alcohol policy is to reduce the harm and suffering caused by alcohol use to individuals and society. At the same time, moderate use of alcohol is seen as positive for very many people, and an alcohol policy must also take account of it. It is important to distinguish between alcohol consumed at the dinner table in Norwegian homes and alcohol consumed at and at public places on weekends. Violence is primarily associated with drunkenness, and those who commit criminal acts in an alcohol-affected state often have an alcohol problem that gives little control over both consumption and behaviour. Changing people's drinking habits in this area is a major challenge. The prevention activities carried out in areas with a high density of outlets are important. The police have just been through a comprehensive reform which, as one of its main objectives, has made more policemen available to the public. Increased police presence on weekends is an important measure to prevent violence. In several major cities, the nightlife industry, in cooperation with the police, has set up a system of training and approval of door guards. Knowledge of conflict management and how to deal with situations occurring inside and outside the scene is important to prevent violence from occurring. Experiences from, among others: Trondheim and Oslo are positive, and such cooperation between tips and police should be sought in all police districts. The Council of State mentioned a number of measures in its intervention, where the key was realism and accuracy of the information, not as in Thailand, where the Committee has just been, where the Prime Minister has determined that the drugs should be removed in three months. Fortunately, this kind of proposal has not been accepted by this government. It's soberness. It's realism. It's the steady work that needs to be done. The work done in recent years to provide more visible police in the streets is important and needs to be continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e724	I will join in what has been said in the past, that this is a commendable input from the representative of Storberget – because that is it. At the same time, I think, if we see this in a slightly longer and historical perspective, that part of the alcohol problems that Norwegians have to contend with, maybe because of the attitude that's been trodden down our heads for a long time. I have an experience that alcohol has been a no-thing in Norwegian society, which should not have been accepted, only on few and special occasions. I think that through it we've created the culture that makes some people sadly abuse alcohol. I believe that Norwegian society still needs some sort of normalization of its use of alcohol. Because it's probably the way most of it can be abused. But it's also that most can be used with reason, as well as alcohol. What this really is about is, I guess, finding a medium-way that allows you to bypass alcohol without having the negative consequences that the representative Storberget points out in his interpellation. What's interesting about what Storberget brings up is, among other things, he indicated that in the coming years there could be liberalisation of the alcohol levy and alcohol advertising, and that the wine monopoly could stand by fall. The paradox for me becomes the position of the representative of Storberget as a member of the Labour Party, for example. to the EU. As I see it, the European Union is one of the major drivers of liberalisation. At my discretion, the representative Storberget, together with his party colleagues in this context, may perhaps meet himself at the door. But I expect that the representative Storberget had thought carefully through this issue when he took up the interpellation. I think it is good that the Minister of Justice pointed to some areas of activity with which the Government wants to do something. I think part of what he was into is very important. For my part, I think of the parent role as one of the absolutely important things. I think our kids are mainly shaped by inheritance and the environment. I think they're looking for us adults, as role models, at good and bad. That's why I think many of the results that we get in society can be traced back to ourselves. Each one of them has to go in and consider: what am I doing well? What am I doing bad? What should I have done differently? I think the main issue and the main answer are there. Then, of course, we have what goes on political leadership by all of us representing different political parties. On the part of the Progress Party, we want a liberal stance on access to alcohol, but, of course, with strong consequences and penalties for those who break this regime. Then it becomes a paradox for me when it is claimed that the Progress Party here is alone. I'm sure we will. But if it is that we stand for easy availability and severe penalties, then the consequence on the other hand must be that the rest buy a ban line and lower penalties. Is there anything more logical?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e737	It is a very important topic for debate in this interpellation. As the Council of State said, it is quick to end up in a general alcohol debate about this. I'll try to avoid it. However, I would first like to stress that alcohol-related crime is just happening under the influence of alcohol. We know that different people react differently to the use of alcohol. Now there are two priests who are going to have the word after each other on this pulpit. We have been well aware in our lives and in our encounters with people of many families and homes where just the use of alcohol for some may have been the positive, simple, small good, while for others it has been the cause of a hell without equal. In order to connect me to Ellingen's posts, I think it's absolutely right to look at the behaviour of the adult society. I think we as adults are role models. Kids and youth don't take as much after what we say, like what we do. I was in my previous profession, as Secretary General of the Blue Cross in Norway, involved in a scheme called Children in the Danger Zone. So we in our country, based on estimates confirmed by the Children's Ombudsman, can assume that we have between 180,000 and 230,000 children who, because of the use of drugs by close relatives, have difficulties. At the same time, we know from the observations and, to call it, from interventions made by drug treatment agencies, that between 60 pst. and 80 pst. of these children themselves will develop an abuse and that very many of them are living in a situation marked by precisely what Rui pointed to, violence, threats and the use of procedures taught by children and young people. You would normally think that you took the horror of this. Instead, it gives you the opposite effect, you become an attacker yourself, you become a striker yourself. My appeal to the Government is therefore that you look further at this group of people, which we can sort of get mapped out. How can we go in to help this particular group not develop into people who become alcohol-related criminals?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e746	In the debate here someone has praised the Government, and others have given rice to the Government. I want to praise the representative of Storberget for addressing the issue of alcohol and violence crime, which is a major social problem. I thought his post was thought-provoking. This gives rise to reflection on several aspects of a theme in which there are actually no simple answers. There are no simple answers to difficult questions. The intention of the interpellation is not to ask for a quick or simple response from the Government either. But it is useful to point out in some areas that we believe have contributed to a negative development. Obviously, one does not go beyond the alcohol policy that is being pursued. We know the relationship between access and increased consumption. That's why I represent a party, the Center Party, that actually doesn't want extended sales times for beer in the shops. We see the relationship between reduced charges, i.e. cheaper spirits, and increased sales. It actually shows the statistics. We still want relatively high taxes on alcohol and want to continue restrictions on alcohol policy, both in terms of opening hours and relatively high charges. The sale of cannabis in shops is considered to be a serious threat to young people’s alcohol consumption, and we still want advertising bans. In fact, we are concerned about what is happening in Sweden, where the Court of Markets decided on 5 February that the Swedish ban on alcohol advertising in the media is contrary to EU law. I feel that what the representative of Storberget wants is in a way to ask: what are the ways in which we are left in our country? What measures are we allowed to use in relation to reducing human consumption of alcohol? More visible police, use of night shifts and all such good measures are in a way at the repair stage, while alcohol-related violence, such as alcohol-related violence, is among others. behind closed doors, i.e. at home, are less visible, but no less relevant to gripping and preventing. I believe that one has to face the very challenge of people resorting to violence in order to resolve conflicts. We know that alcohol consumption also reduces the ability to assess. That's why this case that Storberget travels is about more than just the tools we have. It's also about helping people to be safe, to see their self-esteem, to sea life – about human vision – and then we're kind of different venues. Then, among other things, we're in the parent role. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e760	It is a very important debate that is raised here by the representative Knut Storberget. It's a debate that I think we're going to follow very closely in the future, also because we have a government that consists of parties with relatively different approaches to the problems – and also the joys – that lie in the alcohol. When the Government is also supported by the Advance Party, this is going to be very interesting, especially in view of the Christian People's Party. I find it strange to hear representatives saying that this should not be a general debate on alcohol policy. Why doesn't it have to? I believe that this is about discussing prevention, and it is actually our duty as justice politicians. If, in any criminal policy debate, we are just going to discuss how many police officers we are going to have, how severe penalties we are going to have, what possible means we have of remedying a problem, we are going to be reduced to symptomatic treatment, and that cannot be an ambition for Norway's justice politicians. At the same time, I would like to point out something that the representative Ellingsen has been involved in. It is that the representative Storberget, representing an EU-friendly party, has a problem, and is also going to have an even greater problem in the future, which goes on the sort of pressure that comes from Europe elsewhere in this area. Here SV is going to ally with the Center Party in relation to being the leading critics in this field. The four freedoms of the EU are not about the freedom of people from alcohol-related crime, but about the freedom of sellers not to face obstacles in their sales. So we're probably going to see developments in Sweden in Norway as well. It is very likely that this can go quickly if we now see that the EU mood in the population continues. Then I believe that EU-friendly parties in Norway may have a particularly high responsibility to look at how we will meet the developments that we know will come. In any case, we all get the results, and then we have to be in the forefront and not let go of a debate on how to prevent a type of crime that we know can be increasing. In combination with the fact that we now have municipalities that are struggling heavily financially and that very many of the tools we have for caring for children and young people's growth conditions are being reduced or disappearing, we will see that this is going to be a big problem if we continue to liberalize alcohol policy. It's my fortune.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e769	Let's make it clear right away. It's been said that intoxication is responsible for a lot of problems in society. I want to say that the right thing is to say that drugs are the cause of a lot of the violent crime in society. It's the people who are guilty, not the rush itself. What is important, of course, is to take a number of measures to combat violence-related crime resulting from either drug use or alcohol use. These include: to facilitate early-stage access to help when you become an addict. In addition, there is a need to develop drug-free treatment in combination with social services, such as social services. housing and the qualification of drug addicts for both work and other activities. There is better coordination of specialised treatment measures for drug users, as well as the individual plans that can be drawn up for individuals. In addition, the number of settlements under Section 12 of the Penal Code should be increased and, of course, the introduction of ‘Duty to treatment’ can also be assessed, which can be balanced with the US ‘Drug Courts’. One thing that I feel is very important, and that is very worrying, is the number of deaths caused by drug use. There has been more than a third of this in the 1990s, over the last ten years, from around half of the total. 100 in 1990 to over 350 in 2001. This is serious. The number of deaths caused by alcohol use is about 1000, and it's been stable. Drug use flows inwards Norway. Norway needs to work both internationally and nationally to limit the supply of drugs, but also to limit the production of drugs in the producing countries. Here, I believe that Norway could contribute much more and to a much greater extent in relation to its work, among others. UN. We've just been to Thailand and Laos to see how the authorities there are working to reduce the production of drugs. But it doesn't help that a few countries do it. You have to have an international effort to do that. One thing I don't think it's right to put forward is that annual sales of alcohol in Norway per year. The population is 15 years of age and the elderly are increasing. The statistics show that consumption of pure alcohol is constant — actually decreasing. It's showing official statistics all the way back from 1980. Then the consumption was approx. 6 litres of pure alcohol per day. the population. Now it's between 5 and 6 liters of pure alcohol per. the population. I would say that the drug problem is the real problem of crime in the future. It must also be taken into account. You have to see the whole of these things, not just look at alcohol.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e801	Last post: alcohol consumption in Norway has not been constant at all. It's doubled since 1955. There has been a relatively strong growth in both purchasing power and the significant increase in availability in Norway in relation to alcoholic beverages. Today, alcohol is sold in over 5,000 grocery stores and in a number of tipping points, making Norway one of the most liberal countries. We sometimes think it's one of the most restrictive. So here we have to have the numbers clear for us. While alcohol has become cheaper for most people — we can buy much more alcohol for our salaries today than we could do in 1950 — illicit consumption has also grown. There are two sizes that have grown in the same direction. It makes sense that it is important to discuss central alcohol policy measures when discussing the question of keeping a reasonably constant level or reducing alcohol-related violence and other types of crime. I just want to say briefly that I think that the debate has been fine. Could it be a start that we are not sleeping in relation to the issue of the main alcohol policy instruments: the wine monopoly, the fees, the advertising ban and the licensing system? And if that's how these are going to fall, are we going to be able to create any alternative? I think that's going to be the biggest challenge for us. Then it's not like someone is now trying to make it – Ellingen from the Progress Party and the representative Thorkildsen from SV – that it's so bad because we in the Workers' Party should be EU friendly. One of the reasons I want EU membership and have changed my position is precisely alcohol policy. Because it is just outside the EU that we have seen that the alcohol policy instruments have been threatened — every single day. When we had to give up the right of the monopoly on wine and the right to produce, it was because of pressure from the EU. Now that we feel that the fees are charged, there is an actual pressure that is there regardless of whether we are a member of the EU or an EU. And when we introduce rusbrus in the grocery store, it's also independent of membership. These arguments, both in relation to intoxication, taxes, the question of the continued existence of the monopoly of wine, and also the issue of the ban on advertising, are good arguments that we should actually be in the EU, to be told from what this situation is, how important it is to us, and to form the effective social lobby that is actually needed in this area, which has been successfully carried out in other areas, among others. in the case of tobacco, which is now in the process of being successful in southern Europe in terms of wine consumption, where a significant reduction has been achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e812	I will leave the temptation to reflect on today's debate theme in relation to various aspects of the EU issue. It could be temperature here if I had gone into it. But it should be temperature for completely different reasons. Beyond the international conditions, which we always have to deal with in some way, we are back to the ancient theme: how do we organize ourselves as a society to give parents the chance to be parents? How do we organise ourselves as a society in such a way, as at least this government has as a policy, that there is no point just with a sigh to see that families are drained for content, so that's why the school has to solve it, and when the school blesses, the police have to solve it? Then it's a right policy to say, how can families, as they now exist in our country, have a chance to survive? Next point: how can the school have a chance to do a job without being overburdened with everything it has to work with others about? And then, as far as the police are concerned, there has been no general tone in this debate that we are hunting for punishment and reaction. On the contrary, this debate has constantly reasoned on how to connect the good forces in such a way that they mutually reinforce each other. But it is possible that in our society, where most of the questions are on the agenda, we have to openly discuss: How are adults going to be able to stand out as adults? As part of it, several representatives have been involved: how are we going to deal with violence, and some of the violence can be associated with various forms of violence, be occupied by those who are affected by violence, most often women, but also children? Then we agree, and it is in the Government's promise of a renewal of the Action Plan against Violence in Life, that we should look at the one who is exerting the violence, because we know that in very many cases, done in the right way and in good time, we can help that man. And then we also know that children who are in these conditions have been forgotten in a lot of ways. But then we are back in a debate that acts, for example. on how, in fact, local policy, independent of the budgetary situation, we can get administrative and local political leaders who dare to give young professionals who are newly educated so much security that they dare to care about human relations instead of hiding in the security of paper. It is permissible to be insecure when you are young and newly educated, but I have said it from this pulpit: policemen are thrown into work and get the message: Learn to swim! It is a leadership task, both administratively and locally, to help people who are newly educated to meet the hard facts of life, a significant challenge for child protection workers, social workers and others. They have to get back, and then we get the one standing on the pulpit of the Storting, saying that it's actually a leadership job and part of the political processes locally to act in such a way that people who sit administratively and who are foot soldiers, realize that's what you mean. So this contribution from my side as the Council of State – the last second – is just to say that that role we get to take seriously, and then we have also done an important part in relation to the challenge of the Great Mountain for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e823	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e840	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1932]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e860	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1932]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e880	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1932]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e900	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1932]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e920	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1933]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e940	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1933]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e960	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1933]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e968	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e975	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 2, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party Proposal No. 2, from the Centre Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal and changed accordingly. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government provide an evaluation of all aspects of the Law on Landing in an appropriate form as soon as possible.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any discussion. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, says: ‘The Government is requested to carry out the evaluation of the Law on Landfills when it has been in operation for one year at the turn of 2002 to 2003, and to bring forward before 1 April 2003 amendments to the Law on the Law on Landfills, the Redemption Access and the possibility of future Landfills.’ The Socialist Left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e1028	Mr Storberget has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e1031	Since our proposal has fallen, I would recommend the Workers' Party's Group to support II.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e1036	No Marte Thorkildsen – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e1039	We expressed that in the course of the debate, but we will also support II.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e1044	The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e1054	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e1061	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 22 January 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider a legislative amendment where the consequence of breaking the meeting obligation means that the case is submitted to the Child Welfare Service as a matter of concern.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e1079	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 22 January 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider more closely the capacity of child protection and police to effectively prevent and manage child and youth crime in line with the Ot.prp proposals. [[2001-2002]] No 106
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e1097	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 22 January 2003: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess whether § 232 of the Criminal Procedures Act should be clarified in such a way as to clarify when the police are required to inform child protection of the initiation of a child investigation. The decision further asks the Government to assess whether the threshold for the transmission of a statement of concern should be lowered.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e1115	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 22 January 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out evaluations of the measures and to ensure that the children concerned are also heard.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e1133	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 22 January 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the measures and resource inputs needed to meet the special needs of children and young people diagnosed with ADHD/ADD’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e1151	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 22 January 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the kind of knowledge available on ADHD/ADD issues among the various professional groups working with children and young people.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-18.ana.ud145e1167	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 22 January 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that, in cases where there is reason to believe that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers have committed criminal acts, there should be immediate notification of concerns to the Child Welfare Service, which shall assess the need for further assistance.’;
