ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e112	Honourable co-representatives! He's a former P.O.R. Kristine Rusten. He's dead. It was with sorrow that we received the notice that former Stable Representative Kristine Rusten is dead, only 63 years old. Kristine Rusten represented Oppland Labour Party here at Stortinget for two periods, from 1977 to 1985. She was born on July 6, 1940 in Lom, Oppland. Kristine Rusten grew up in very tight conditions, which helped her to get involved early in politics to improve everyday life and living conditions for most people. Not least Kristine Rusten was very concerned that everyone should have equal rights to education, regardless of their place of residence, social background and economics. Her involvement in this area was expressed in the school board and in the cultural board of Lom and as a member of the county school board of Uppland. Among other things, she worked hard and purposefully to establish Lom secondary school. Kristine Rusten also made a great effort as a member of the Oppland Workers' Party's School and Culture Committee, and as Chairman of the Lom Workers' Party for several years. When she was elected to represent the Stortinget in 1977, it was natural that she became a member of the Church and Education Committee. She was an active member of the committee and very thorough in her case preparation. This came, among other things. in view of the fact that she was the case rapporteur for the report on employment and education, which was promoted in 1980. She felt it was absolutely necessary to strengthen the provision of continuing training in order to meet the new challenges of working life, and she was eager to tear down the fences between educational institutions and working life and society. There should be a much better interaction between the education system and the labour market. This could be done through practical training, vocational training and other changes in school content, such as elective and project work, she said. She was also concerned that opportunities were given to return to school after a stay in the workplace. And she was burning in her commitment to improving the study opportunities of this group, both in terms of funding, study offerings, organisation and working methods. Kristine Rusten himself was very young when she had to go out to work to serve for the rest of her life. And in Lom it was to have work closely linked to agriculture. She took her knowledge and experience with her work in the Agriculture Committee, where she was a member from 1981 to 1985. Kristine Rusten was concerned about raising the standard of living and the welfare of farmers and small users in District Norway, which her work in the committee was strongly influenced by. She was also involved in transport issues, both for increased investment in road construction and for better public communication, and she was also concerned with health and social policy. Even after Kristine Rusten left Stortinget in 1985, she continued her local political commitment until her death. Among other things, she was the leader of Lom Health, a position she had until recently. She was also active in the retirement team, and worked hard to set up volunteer centres to provide an offer to the many in the municipality who needed a helping hand. Her social and political commitment to helping and improving the lives of the individual was alive until the last. She was a socially engaged person, and she was known for having a clear and well-founded stand. Was there anyone who had difficulties, she always stretched out a helping hand. We remember Kristine Rusten with respect and bring peace to her memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e142	From 20 December to 31 January 2004, an application has been submitted by the Workers' Group for an extended maternity leave to the representative of Gunn Karin Gjul On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Ola Røtvej, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e160	The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e163	I want to make a proposal on behalf of Sigbjørn Molvik and myself that injection rooms should be staffed by both health and social professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e168	The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e171	I will, on behalf of the representatives of Ola D. Glötvold, Rune J. Klülaaen and myself, put forward proposals on the right to work income for the disabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e176	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e190	I have to be very short. As stated in the setting, SV disagrees with the fact that the committee leaders should have extra compensation. I am therefore promoting the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e195	The representative of Ågot Valle has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e198	I'm also going to be very short. We in the Left also disagree with the proposal for a decision on the matter and will therefore vote as we have done earlier on that very question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e203	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1490]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e218	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1491]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e234	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e243	This private proposal, which is from the Progress Party, addresses a very important problem area. It is relatively detailed in the vote by the municipal committee, and therefore the majority of the government is asking to come back to the matter in the municipal proposition of spring. Some expenditure is revenue-generating. Some investments actually pay off quickly, and some maintenance costs we can't afford to leave. In fact, the water and sewerage infrastructure is such an area. Of course, the fact that water is healthy and does not cause disease to the population is the most important thing. Vascular disease is according to the Institute of Public Health reduced in recent years. But water quality is in fact very close to satisfying in Norway, not least the food industry has problems with this. It is a problem if we lose market shares because we do not meet the EU's quality requirements. The number of leaks from water pipes is also much larger in Norway than in our neighbouring countries, perhaps as high as 50 pst, while in Denmark they operate with 7 pst. in the case of such leaks. We have enough apparent water in Norway – we are well aware of that in the West – but when large amounts of drinking water are spilled into the sewerage lines, the amount to be cleaned is increased accordingly, and this is poor environmental resource and economic disposal. The water supply programme has had a back-up system that has triggered extensive improvements at Norwegian waterworks. From the Christian People's Party's side, we will emphasize that these money has not disappeared, but is now disposed of by the regional level as we have incorporated these ear-marked money. Nevertheless, it is important that the job is finished. We are far too far from the goal of a satisfactory water and sewage system. We also have a lot of problems with many of our cleaning facilities. It is important that we have intensive mechanisms to improve investment and maintenance in this sector. I also expect that the Government will recommend good solutions in this area in the municipal bill. I would like to stress that, after all, it is the responsibility of local democracy to take care of this. The Government Party and the Advance Party point out, however, that the tax bill as it stands today does not provide any motivation for efficient operation, and, to be completely honest, there are many rumors that completely out of date settings are funded in this area, but I will go quite well for it here. Finally, it has not been given that today's method of drain is the best in all contexts. It is increasingly developed, often smart and environmentally friendly, biological solutions. Many places it may be cheaper to use such methods, and we need to consider whether they are the best sometimes. We need to have flexible regulations and more modern grips for these solutions. There is only one small sentence written about this from the committee, while SV has deepened it a little more. Long and expensive sewer solutions must be unnecessary in rural areas if investments in biological technology can provide an environmentally friendly and reasonable solution. I recommend the proposal, which states that the Government should come back with a broader and qualified statement on this matter for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e269	In any modern industrialised country, control, quality assurance and security of supply related to a technical infrastructure are crucial. Document No 8:115 for 2002-2003 by the Progress Party concerns the part of the technical infrastructure relating to water supply and sewerage, and the Government so requests to propose an overall plan for the renewal and upgrading of the water supply and sewerage network in Norwegian municipalities. It is also recommended that the State should provide direct financial support to the municipalities in this field. The water and sewerage system is part of the country's technical infrastructure, which is of the utmost importance for industry, jobs, public activities and private households. And not least hygienically, given national public health, the importance here is very high. Let me remind you that, as far as the size of the water network itself is concerned, the total physical length of the municipal, public water and sewerage network in Norway is estimated to be over twice the earth's circumference. In addition, about the same length comes with private water and sewerage networks. The recycling value only for the municipal grid is estimated to be at least DKK 400 billion. So we're talking about significant economic values, as well as a very significant physical volume, which is obviously very resource-intensive in terms of supervision and maintenance. Large parts of the municipal water and sewerage systems have become relatively old and fragile today, and the need for rehabilitation and replacement has increased accordingly in many municipalities in several parts of the country. In isolation, it can be estimated that leakage from existing wiring networks costs about NOK 1 billion extra a year. It is likely that up to half of the water in the Norwegian water supply network disappears via leakages in the wiring network. This is too high a figure in relation to the case of leakages in most other European countries, and clearly shows the need for continued efforts in this field here in the country. Therefore, increasing the rate of replacement of the water supply system is a cost-effective measure, although the investment costs are significant. I have to comment: when all the other parties, except the Advance Party, believe that a national plan for the VA sector, as proposed by the Progress Party, is a weakening of local democracy, I think this is a somewhat strange argument, in the light of the facts. Many municipalities alone do not have the finances for the proper supervision and quality assurance and improvement of their VA network. Moreover, in my view, taking into account both public health and national water security should not be confused with local self-government, as this has little to do with this. This has to be described as irrelevant reasoning, for there is a clear need today to speed up the work of municipalities in renewing and ensuring quality water supply systems in Norway. And the potential for savings and cost-effectiveness through the increased rate of water supply renewal is very high. Therefore, Norwegian municipalities should be given better incentives and prerequisites to be more active in detecting weaknesses and errors in their water supply system, and then to be able to respond more quickly to the results of the analysis through real remedial work. Local authorities should also have increased competence in carrying out analyses of safety and quality in their water supply systems. I must say that I am pleased that the Committee has taken seriously the proposals of the Progress Party in this matter. I would therefore like to conclude by saying that I am reasonably satisfied with the Committee's proposal for a decision on this matter and look forward to the Government mentioning this in the 2005 Community Proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e286	Water is important. Nevertheless, I think there are many people in Norway who take clean water for granted. They even believe that it should be clean and almost free of charge. I think that's a show we have to add. This is an important proposal, but I think it's also a certain pressure from the industries, who want government money for forced expansion, which may be necessary in many places, but perhaps not always completely insensitive. But it's absolutely true that there's a lot of leaks in the water system we have, and that means you're polluting a lot of water, which you have to clean again. It's not a trick. It's also wasting one of the most important resources we have, water. Swallow if it rains a lot on the West, I think we need to have a position on water that makes us take care of it and not pollute it, so that we have to clean it unnecessarily. In the setting, the government parties and the Progress Party take a position on some principles that SV disagree with. SV believes that we should have a sea-cost system in terms of water and sewerage, because it is important to stick to the polluter-pays principle. If we are going to bring large government investment funds into this sector now, we will point to a number of other areas where we believe it is very important to have greater state co-financing. This is especially about upgrading the school sector, where we know that there are 55 billion dollars waiting. We have a society that is not designed for the disabled, where a large national effort is required to achieve it, and we also have a housing sector with major shortcomings, where investment is needed. That's why we say no to go into this area with a lot of government funding. We are also opposed to what the Government has asked SINTEF to investigate, namely a system with such cost frameworks as they have in the electricity supply. There are major deficiencies, and there has been a case here at the latest this week. We don't want to go into such a system. But then it's very important to find new systems to develop the water and sewerage sector. In the setting – in a comment from SV and the Senterparte – it is pointed to natural/biologically based treatment methods for effluents. There's also a mini-rescue system, that is, a different kind of technology. We think it's important to look at this, because you can find better ecological ways to handle the wastes. Much of the technology is that you don't have to pollute that much water. Then you don't have to clean it, but you can drop parts of the water right into the wild, because it's clean. Part of the technology can be used both in the city and in the country, and it can also lead to a need for less investment in pipes and large plants, less technology and a little more nature. We believe that this needs to be focused on, and on getting these ideas out to the local government sector, so that the different opportunities for getting the job done can be seen in the local government sector. It's also true that some of these techniques allow you to build on places other than what you've technically been able to do now. I just want to say – so there are no misunderstandings – that this does not mean that SV believes that it should be built in places where for other reasons it is not to be built, i.e. for nature protection reasons etc. There may be areas to which such interests are not linked, but to which major interests may be attached in order to be able to build dwellings. With some of the new techniques you'll have the opportunity to do that. That's why we think it's important to get them in place. We look forward to the Government assessing this as well as finding incentives, so that the municipal sector has access to and enough information about all the different techniques available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e301	There is something self-contradicting about the Progress Party in this matter, as in several other cases involving municipalities. In the 2002 state budget, the party of progress gave active support to the removal of the Government’s highest-permanent water supply programme. There was a good and decent measure to upgrade the infrastructure in this field. In the state budget for 2000, the Bondevik I government said: ‘Because the need for improvements will not be met by the end of 1999, the Government is in favour of extending the programme for a further five years in line with what was signalled at the start of the programme.’ If this were to be followed up, then it should be our promises for the water supply programme until 2005. At the time the program was cut out, there were applications for a development project for several hundred million kroner. In the Center Party we were very critical that this was cut. We had no expectations that the infrastructure would be quite up-to-date across the country after 2005, but we thought it was important to continue with this programme. We also found it rather comforting when the case spokesperson from the Christian People's Party today says that the funds exist, but that they are in the county municipalities. We know that the funds now available to the county councils have a lot of labels, and there's no reason to believe that much of the funds will go to the development of the VA sector. When this is said, let me also say: it is a commendable initiative The Progress Party has, after all, taken on board today. It is good that there is now a broad majority to order for the 2005 municipal proposal, both to get an overview of what is being done by the different departments in this field, and to get an assessment of what is needed to improve the infrastructure both in terms of drinking water supply and draining. When this is referred to as a major concern when it comes to the number of leaks compared to other countries, it must be said that we have a completely different possibility with regard to water in Norway. But I agree with what has been said, that there is no self-infliction either that we have clean water or free water in the future, so it's important to be led was. It is clear that it is a bad economy, and it is also not a good environmental resource disposal, to accept so many leaks over a long period of time. We're signalling from the Center Party that we're still trying to keep the self-cost system going. We mean that in the order that is now given to the ministry, it is important not only to evaluate economic incentives, but also new and more nature-based purification methods. It is very important that municipalities, which are still responsible in this area, also have the opportunity to be updated on what can be found in alternative ways of cleaning. It is important to be realistic about what municipalities can expect from new incentives, when we know that the last year has failed tax revenue per capita. the date has been shown to be NOK 3 billion. We know that municipalities have increased pension costs. We know that despite the fact that the municipalities get extra funds next year, it's a very scarce municipal economy. It will be such, on the part of the Centre Party, that priority should be given to schooling and care, in relation to many other tasks of the municipalities. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Labour Party and the Centre Party. I think there's been a little dissonance here about how much we're going to put in by ordering the ministry. The centre party will have both challenges and measures in general, but we will also have a little more specific mention, as recommended by the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e317	The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has taken up the proposal she referred to. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e322	I will first be allowed to praise the rapporteur, and I will also praise the rest of the Committee for the positive reception of this proposal. It is clear that there is a cross-political consensus that this is a problem area and that there is a strong desire to do something about it. With regard to this type of infrastructure, the Progress Party wants to focus more on the fact that it is also a State responsibility. We had a wish and a hope to avoid the debate on local economy, because we thought it would destroy the intentions of the proposal. So when this is going to be reported back in the municipal bill, I must first say that there is a little disappointment about that, of course. We would have wanted a stronger order from the Council of State, but we'll get back to that when we're going to deal with the proposition next year. The representative Karin Andersen pointed out that this was also a pressure from the industry. Yeah, what's the industry? If you look at the food chain that had to be involved in a power roof on the infrastructure in this area, we can go to the North Sea, where they pick up the oil. In fact, the food chain is starting. We get waste products from there, from which we get naphtha, from which we make plastic tubes. We have raw materials producers, processors, research, wholesalers, retailers, entrepreneurs and the municipalities, and we have the inhabitants. This is not one industry that has a particular interest. This concerns the whole chain. That is why it is nice to point out, at a time when we lack industry and jobs, that adoption of this proposal would actually be a strong incentive to create jobs. There's no doubt that there's a big downfall here. Some people point out that there's over $1 billion in losses because of the maturity of just one year, and that it gets bigger and bigger as we don't do anything. With today's rate of investment in this area in Kommune-Norway, it's probably going to take hundreds of years before we have an infrastructure in place that we can call qualitatively good enough. I hope that the Council of State sees this proposal as seriously as an overall committee has done, and will provide a broad feedback and a briefing when we have to deal with the municipal proposition next year. My hope then, of course, is that we fall on some concrete proposals, so that we do not stop the process next year by just mentioning the matter, but that we really get to decide to put some action into action.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e335	That there are industries that have interests in this is both known and legitimate. There's no problem with that, but we should be familiar with it. That there'll be jobs of it, is true. It is also by upgrading schools, by facilitating society for the disabled, and by building homes. What SV is concerned about is also to highlight new techniques and technologies that parts of the industry may not have so much under the skin, which are more environmentally friendly, and which have the potential to become not only an industry in Norway, but perhaps also an export industry that can provide environmentally friendly water and wastewater treatment in countries with a much higher water scarcity than Norway. It is very important, both because it is a very serious problem in a very large number of countries, and because it may be an opportunity for Norway to become a leader in technologies that can really mean something and, among other things, may mean something for the Norwegian economy. So we're a little bit too nuanced, to say it this way, to think that we're just going to use the industry's numbers and industry's own calculations for how to do this, and how much it's going to cost. We're probably a little bit more reserved for that. But we see the need, and we want us to have a much more active policy towards this than we have today. That's why there's no difference here. What SV has been clear about is that we don't see that this is what we want to use state investment heads at now. The polluter-pays principle and the need to have a sea-cost principle around water and waste management in municipalities is an important principle to maintain for SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e342	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1491]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e358	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there will be a change of line of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e369	In this case, the Committee proposes some changes to the appropriations for the Ministry of Transport. These changes concern the areas of Aviation, Road, Railway and Postal and Telecommunications. In total, expenditure is increased and reduced by 334.1 million. kr. Of these, increased equity in the Flytrain is 300 million. kr. Revenue is increased and reduced by a total of 166.1 million. kr. Of this amount, it can be mentioned that dividends from Item Norge AS and BaneTele will be reduced from 70 million. kroner to 0. There has been a consensus within the Committee on all the amendments, with the exception of the proposals in the field of railway operations. In the case of BaneService, it is proposed to convert BaneService to AS and to grant NOK 100000 to set up an interim company to start the process. The conversion itself shall take place on 1 July 2004. A majority of the Committee, the Government Parties and the Progress Party support the proposal, while a minority, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, oppose the proposal. I want to argue for SV's reason. We have two important reasons to go against. One is that the market situation for BaneService is uncertain. In 2004, ECON has estimated that a global market available for BaneService will be about $800 million. kr. It is less than half of the estimates used for the 2002 estimate. When the Railway Agency itself is required to operate and maintain, while the main focus is on major investment projects, the market situation will remain uncertain in our assessment. Nor are there any plans for substantial investment in railway construction in Norway. The second reason is security. The construction of railway installations requires professionals with acute competence on railway operations. By converting BaneService to AS to sell it out later, as the government suggests, the danger is great that the company may lose the top competence that BaneService currently holds. This was made clear at the hearings in the Committee, both from the NITO and from the Railway Federation. It was pointed out here that in large railway countries, such as Germany and France, high voltage and signalling installations are not put on the market for safety reasons. It's also worth noting that the government parties and the Progress Party actually go even further in their remark. They will also release the operation and maintenance of the railway station, i.e. the production of the railway station, as it is called. Reference is made to the Sem Declaration, and the Government is asked to work to ensure that the work of BanePartners and BaneProduction is also transformed into AS and put off for competition. In the State budget, the Minister for Transport explains that a major reorganisation has been carried out within the Railway Agency, with a view to increasing the local presence of the Railway Agency, making it more accessible to customers and users and reducing administrative and professional support functions by a total of 25 pst. within three years. In this reorganisation, which has involved both management and employees, it is decided, as indicated in the briefing, that, after thorough assessments and experience, it is not decided to convert BanePartner and BaneProduction into AS. The main argument for choosing this solution was closer links, closer cooperation, joint management and joint responsibility for the overall outcome: a better and more efficient railway network. So the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Advance Party have concluded with the opposite. Are these parties not willing to learn from any of the wrong other nations by releasing, postponing competition and privatising railway and railway safety? Are we going to have to do all the wrong things in Norway that other nations have done before it makes sense? I look forward to hearing the parties explain and justify this comment in more detail, and not least I look forward to hearing the Minister of Transport's opinion on the migration process at the Railway Station. There was agreement in the committee to increase the equity of the Flytrain by 300 million. kr. The Progress Party has put forward its own proposal, which I suppose they will take up and justify. For SV's part, I would like to refer to our comments, where we repeat that we went against releasing the flight train from the NSB. One of the arguments was just the economic one. We pointed out that the market value of the flight train was probably lower than the book value of the NSB group, due to the fact that the flight train itself does not have significant support functions, as its own maintenance unit, and not the ability to coordinate the operation and maintenance of the train equipment. Now we get right. SV has also, in its own comment, underlined the reasons given by the Minister for Transport when she presented proposals for the release of the Flytrain, that it will continue to be invested on the Flytrain, not least in terms of socio-economic and environmental conditions, and that the Flytrain will be 100 pst. state ownership in order to ensure social considerations. This has only been supported by the Center Party. That neither the Workers' Party could be involved in this remark, it surprises. With this I present the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e405	St. pp. No 29 for 2003-2004 includes quite a number of things. I'll comment on three of them. The first one is the Flytog. As the case spokesman has already mentioned, there is a question of increasing ownership. But I would like to remind the assembly that the Workers' Party was among the parties that were opposed to moving ownership to the Flytrain. I still believe that it would have played a huge gain in coordinating operations, maintenance, scheduled equipment, etc. between the Aerodrome and NSB. But when that is said, the majority has decided that it should be a limited liability company, and then we support it. We are pleased that the Fly train is going well, that there are many travelling on the Fly train, and we have to take care of the success within the share company system that the majority have created. So we're going in to increase our capital. But we assume, and then together with the government party, that if there is to be any change in the ownership and organisation of the flight, one must return to the Stortinget. So it would be in safe hands if we got it back if there were further liberalisation. When it comes to BaneService, as the case manager has already said, we see this as another step on the right. Perhaps there are several steps in the decisions being taken today. The majority not only joins in turning BaneService into a state-owned limited liability company – one has, after all, for a while in the system – but in addition, the majority, then the government party and the Progress Party, ask that major parts of the railway works' production, including jobs in BanePartner and BaneProduction, be converted and put off for competition. It's completely clear to the right, but it's actually very unclear who it is, and what it covers. So we in the Labour Party have said that we need a break in this with a competitive start. We have to evaluate whether this was the way we would have thought, whether it was the efficiency out of what we had thought, whether we can take good care of society's concerns, for example. security of the new systems, and any problems associated with adding individual ones within this system. In addition, it is the case in this very specific case that only an assessment has been made, and one thing was that there was not enough life created in the market for this new company, which was thus initially BaneService AS. The opposite is true of all other countries, who prefer to withdraw to be absolutely sure that there is no security at all on offer. Security must be maintained by people who are not just thinking about a store. In addition, there is reason to believe that the extension, as the majority do today, by allowing this to cover more, perhaps up to 2,000 added, will reset the migration process that is already underway in the railway works and lead to a mass of work being useless. The fact that it has not anchored the cork at the rental or they have added, because it has not been set of time, gives essentially more questions than answers. Now I hope the Council of State can clarify a little bit what they intend to do with this. Finally, I have to say at this point that I am very surprised at the way this government and the various departments are running when it comes to the conversion, and do not take into account those who work in the systems, on the leader's side or, at least not, on the trustees' side. There is a lot of evidence to suggest that there is a broken policy. There is a lot of evidence to suggest that it is quite wise to bring them together, those who are also professionals in different systems, in conversion processes, and not against them. To do that, more time will be required. This government will not be associated with this government at that time. That's what I think our country is going to pay dearly for. So to one last point, and that applies to supervision. There is an overview of the scope and use of fees to finance legislative and regulatory work on the territory of the Ministry of Transport in this proposition, which says a little about how much is paid by the public and how much is paid by the private sector and, if necessary, by others. Is it possible for users to be required to finance legislative and regulatory work? There is a short orientation and we have no comment on this in the configuration. I just want to say that the Labour Party is working on this with supervision at all. We have over 40 supervision in Norway, and we think that we have to find out some rules that are indebted across the type of supervision. We are somewhat skeptical that users are going to pay for their work, but we're going to get it back in a later case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e422	I am very pleased that the Government is getting all the main points in the setting that we are invited to adopt here in the Storting today. As the previous two speakers have pointed out, there is one area in particular that has created discussion, which is a very fundamental and interesting discussion, namely how to manage better operation, better maintenance and get more out of the money we spend on this and for investments on the railway network. That discussion has several sides, but I think what we are doing today will bring Rail Norway a significant step forward. The government proposed to convert BaneService, which takes care of a part of the heavier maintenance, into a state limited liability company and assess the hall in the long term. I am very happy that we get multiple numbers for this today. But the majority also goes a bit further. The majority will have assessed the whole production of the Railway Agency, i.e. both operation, maintenance and investment, to see if it is possible to transform more of this too, with one aim: to get a better rail network in Norway. That's the goal of which the multiples are quite a few. Why is it so busy? Ask some of the opponents. We don't have to go that far back in this magnification period to figure out a little bit about what we're thinking and what we can achieve. It was the same discussion when we reorganized the Vegvesen, and when we separated the production department of a Mesta AS. There was the same discussion about liberalisation and competition policy in the aviation sector, i.e. where we tried to create more competition. In the aviation sector, this has given us better supply and lower prices. In the road sector, we are now beginning to see results. We get more operation and maintenance, and we get more money left for the money we spend on investment in the light of the structural revolution, the evolution of the transport revolution, which the majority in Stortinget has fought through, towards the left-hand side of their votes. The spokesman for the case was at a very important moment, that of security. It is quite clear – and I am forced to say it, even if it is obvious – that we will never put security on offer. We will never put responsibility on offer. Liability will lie in the state, in the railway station. But the work, the people who are going to work on some of these things, it can be done. So also ask the case spokesperson a little rhetorical if we should make them the same failures as other countries that have put this out for competition. It's a little hard to understand what my case spokesman is, because he knows just as well as I do that the statistics from the countries that have put up the competition show that when it comes to security, the countries actually come out better than Norway if we see this over a few years. There is no link between organisation, privatisation, postponing competition and security. It is the body responsible for the safety at the Norwegian Railway Agency by means of the Authority. So that argument doesn't hold at least. I believe that the step we are taking today – and as I hope the Government will follow up relatively quickly, BaneService at least from July 1st next year – in the same way as in the other transport sectors, will give us what the majority hope for, more significantly for the money: a safer and better railway, with better operation and maintenance, and a better line network, on which NSB, their competitors and freight trains can run in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e441	The proposition contains several areas. I'll stick to three of these. The first thing I want to mention is the re-priority under item 30 Rijksveg investment, where a re-disposal has been proposed in Hordaland within the item with a relatively small amount of 4.75 million. kr. It is not in itself the amount that takes me, but the principle that unfortunately has been put into practice, that this money is used for public transport measures, rather to increase the operating grant for route production in Bergen. What does an operating grant for route production in Bergen have to do with national road investments? Unfortunately, this is not the only case. Such budgeting leads to two things. One is that it gives the impression that the investment funds for road construction are far higher than they are in reality. The second, as in this case, is that funds are taken from a pressured investment budget, which then leads to less road construction. The Progress Party will, of course, oppose such a policy. The second topic I want to address is the Flytrain. It is proposed to increase equity by 300 million. kr. The train transports persons to/return between Oslo and the airport at Gardermoen. In other words, they carry out a clean transport operation between these two places. On the same route, the SAS bus route goes. This company has paid its buses with equity collected from the market or through loans. The company pays a fee on diesel, and goes with significant profits that it is taxed on. As I said, this company is owned by a private company and also transports people for payment between Oslo and the airport at Gardermoen. I wonder why one company must be primarily owned, and that increased equity must be collected from taxpayers' money and not through partial privatisation through a stock exchange listing. I would like to ask if someone from the government parties and the Workers' Party can come up on this pulpit and explain to me why the only transport company that transports people can easily be private owned, while the other company, which carries exactly the same type of passengers, must absolutely be state owned. I look forward to the answer. The third area I want to go into is the transformation of BaneService into a limited liability company. This, of course, supports the Progress Party. The Progress Party will initially go further and transform all the companies under the Railway Agency, i.e. BanePartners and BaneProduction, to limited liability companies. In the Semi-Declaration, Government Parties committed themselves to competitively suspending the production activities of the Railway Agency. Therefore, we were surprised that the government proposal did not go further than it did. In return, it is gratifying that the Progress Party and the Government Parties agreed that, in the case of BaneProduction, which operates maintenance and operation, and BanePartner, which projects and performs engineering services, work shall be undertaken for the conversion into a limited liability company and for the future outsourcing of competition. Of course, the Progress Party believes that security is being safeguarded. I have to say that it is amazing to hear Ausdal Starrfelt from the Workers' Party and Hansen from SV continue to run on the fact that competition leads to less security, since the representative of the Harvard Commission in the information meeting with the Committee last Tuesday stabbed holes in the myth used by the Workers' Party and SV for years, that competition leads to more accidents in England. England has been used as a horror example several times, and it's positively wrong. There have been fewer accidents since the launch of the competition in England, and this was confirmed, as I said, by the Commission in the information meeting of the Committee. I appreciate that the debate uses facts, and not myths created by those who do not want competition. For as the representative Løvik pointed out quite correctly: Statistics show that Norway, which is primarily in the railway sector, is actually a disaster in Europe. We're at the top of accident statistics. Security seems to be the worst in Norway, compared to other countries where competition has been used as an instrument for getting better offers at a fairer price. I'll take up our suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e460	The representative Svendsen has taken up the proposal he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e463	I just have some pretty short notes for Innst. S. No Ninety-nine. This is about an aggregate proposition, where I only want to touch on some issues. In this respect, it is gratifying to note that the Government is in agreement with the various areas already mentioned. With regard to the construction of a new Svinesundbro, the text is now to be added to the chapter dealing with this matter, which will result in a greater degree of flexibility in relation to the financing of current construction costs. And that's practically necessary. In the case of Flytogen AS, there is a need to increase equity, for example: to improve the structure of previous loans. The Ministry proposes an increase of 300 million. kr, which is supported by the majority, consisting of the governmental parties and the Workers' Party. The same majority assumes that one will return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner to that end regarding any change in the ownership of the Flytrain. For the government parties, it was important in their time to separate the Fly train from the NSB from a separate company in order to develop a competition against the NSB’s route offers. This need is still present. We see that it has begun to work. So some words about BaneService. Here, the majority – the government parties and the Progress Party – want to work to transform BaneService into a state-owned share company by establishing an interim company that is given the task of preparing such a transformation. Manufacturing activities should be suspended, on the basis of the clear premise that railway safety must not be impaired. The transformation is assumed to take place from 1 July 2004. In this connection, the government will return to Stortinget with a new case concerning the recovery of the costs incurred in the transformation. There is reason to say quite clearly that there is no contradiction between putting out competition and safety. We have been informed through internal meetings that there is a positive trend in the safety development of transformation into private operation. Christian People's Party supports this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e485	In my article I will focus on a couple of matters in St.prp. No 29. First to the Fly train. As the majority of the committee has said in the comments, the Flytrain has been a success, not least because of the high number of travelers across the Gardermo that chooses the Flytrain. But despite this success, Gardermobana now needs new equity. The direct reason for this is the transfer of ownership of the Flytogen AS from NSB AS to the Ministry of Transport from 1 January 2003. As a result of this change in ownership, the company has to refinance the loans it had in the NSB group in the private market. In order to obtain long-term loan agreements, the Flytrain must strengthen its equity. The centre party was skeptical about transferring ownership to the Flytrain from the NSB and placing him directly under the Ministry of Transport. The centre party claimed that there would be financial gain in coordinating operations, maintenance, routing, etc. between the Aerodrome and NSB. The airline train has been successful, and this could also be an advantage to the NSB’s reputation if the airline train was still below the NSB. The Central Party takes note that the ownership of the Flytoget is now under the Ministry of Transport. We are concerned that it should continue to be invested in the Flytrain, on the basis of socio-economic and environmental considerations. We also believe that the Flytog should continue to be state-owned. The central party will therefore support the extension of its equity by 300 million. kr. In St. prp. No 29 The Government suggests that it should work to transform BaneService into a state-owned limited liability company. The reason for this is to facilitate the work on improving the efficiency of the railway system and to ensure the most possible level playing field. The Ministry also writes that it will be working to sell the business at a later date. This is a new example that the sitting government has a solution to all the challenges, namely AS and then privatisation. If the planned reorganization is carried out, Norway is going against the road e.g. Germany and England. The signal and high voltage/runway line are not worked out on offer, for security reasons. Safety nets have led the UK back to state control the ownership and operation/maintenance of the infrastructure. In the future, the railway works will take care of safety in the construction, operation and maintenance of the railway. It is important that the Railway Agency retains the knowledge and experience of railway safety contained in BaneService. This makes it best if BaneService is not released. In addition, when ECON has developed a market assessment such as: shows that the market outlook for BaneService is highly uncertain, that the maintenance and investment market is less than previously accounted for, and that the demand for BaneService’s services will be reduced in the short term, this should be arguments such as that BaneService should not be re-dated to AS. So I would like to point out that the leader of the committee refers to the decisions to be taken today, which represent a step forward of the railway, and the argument for this is what has happened in the Road Administration and Aviation, where conversion to AS and more of the competitive postponement took place for approx. a year ago. And then the leader of the committee draws the conclusion before these decisions, which were made a year ago, have worked a year. It seems quite unreal to be so bastant in their announcements at some point so soon after the decisions were put into effect. I would also like, in what many have mentioned, to provide more certainty about putting up competition. As I perceive the leader of the accident commission at the information meeting with the committee, it was said that one could not prove that there were any particular changes in the accident situation. But it's a bit from there to draw the conclusion that security is getting better! Then one has to be a little bit more careful with the way to speak. As a conclusion, I would say that the Central Party will reject the proposal to set up an interim company to prepare the transformation of BaneService into a limited liability company. The centre party will therefore vote against proposals for subchapter permissions. 1355 and Roman numeral II point 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e514	The President has noticed that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e518	The plural – Right, Christian People’s Party and the Progress Party – takes on a heavy weight today. The government gets a pass on parts of the Sem statement when they vote later today to allow NOK 100000 for the creation of an interim company, and then to convert BaneService into a state-owned AS. In the long term, the company must be sold, it is in their own notes. And as if that's not enough, they're asking the Government to work for other parts of the Railway Agency's production, BanePartners and BaneProduction to be rethinked and put out for competition. Over 2 000 jobs face an unsafe future. The changeover process at the Railway Station shall be disregarded. The results of it don't have time to wait, and the ideology that everything private does, is better and cheaper, gets a new grob. I wonder, as others do, whether the Council of State has listened to the advice it has received from the board of directors of the Railway Agency and the organisations. We know a little about what's left of the Railway Agency. The tiny niche that BaneService is in Norway is powdered. The special knowledge in this very important area crumbles away, and we sit back with the danger that it may go on safety loose. Today's railway is old, mostly, but safe. It seems incredible that not even what is good has the right of life. What could be better than 100 pst., because there are numbers statistical shown here in the country, over serious accidents in the last few years. The Committee on Transport was in New Zealand some time ago. There was a clear view of how this ideology has seen its tracks, or perhaps more correctly, has erased tracks. There are no warnings available. Don't do as we do, take lessons from this, the message they gave us. But one doesn't have to travel that far either. Colleagues of the Right in the United Kingdom have admitted that they have made the same loss as the plurals are taking the lead here today. Now, nationally, they're redrawing the control of a model that looks a lot like our railway station. But before they saw the seriousness of the situation, there's been a good deal of accidents. And the railway there is tired of getting passengers back. The consequences can be serious for us too. Germany, France and countries in Europe, which are committed to the further development of railways, do not take such opportunities. One might wonder why we should believe in such a competition, we who have no more routes than the city of Hamburg. In Norway, there won't be a market to compete in. The result is that the railway gets a new nail in the box. It is the implementation of good justice policies that ensure that this is done. Several people out in need on our roads will be the result. Norway is going the very opposite way of what the rest of Europe is doing. The railway system will be broken back, and the warnings from workers who know what they are talking about are of no importance. BaneService has been launched at the end of Norwegian railway policy. It was in the time of prejudice that we could afford to build the country – now the majority are more busy tearing it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e534	Ministry of Transport in St. prp. No 29 up several single things. The Committee does not comment on most of these. I would like to comment on two issues in which the Committee has comments, namely the proposal to increase the equity of Flytogen AS and the proposal to convert BaneService into a limited liability company. I'm glad that there's a majority to increase the equity of the Flytrain by 300 million. kr. Some have tried to produce this as the cost of separating the flight train from the NSB, and in such a context, money was wasted. This isn't right. A grant to strengthen Flytog's equity is the money I expect we'll get back with interest. The increase will enable the Fly train to have sufficient equity to refinance or extend the loans it has raised. It is expected that the Flytrain will make a profit in 2005 and that the return on equity will be satisfactory in five years. There is also a majority in the Committee to set up an interim company to prepare for the transformation of BaneService into a limited liability company. I am dedicated to strengthening the train as an environmentally friendly mode of transport. Better maintenance and more efficient operation of the railway provide higher quality of train provision. Therefore, I want to get as much as possible back for the 3 billion kroner we spend annually on the operation and maintenance of the railway. By taking out the benefits of making parts of these tasks more efficient and competitive, we get more done every year. However, I would like to clarify that what is being treated today is not a final decision on the transformation of BaneService. The matter will be referred to the Stortinget again after the Board of Directors has completed its work on the design of the business strategy and the commercial assumptions for the transformation. In the further process, I would like to stress that the boundary between the tasks being put out of competition and what remains to be part of the administration should be as clear and clear as possible. It's per. no such clear border rise has been established at present. It's e.g. so that BaneService and BaneProduction compete in some disciplines. I would therefore, of course, follow up the observation of the majority to go carefully through the possibilities that jobs in BaneProduction will also be included in a transformation and outsourcing. The main point must be clear limits of responsibility and that both the new company and the private operators are given the predictability of the tasks which the Railway Agency is launching. I will carefully assess which tasks are such that safety can best be handled by continuing to be part of the railway system’s management. It's hard to imagine that it's time to separate all of the current BaneProduction from the new company. I would like to stress strongly that a transformation should in any case not be at the expense of safety – on the contrary. It shall strengthen the security by making more maintenance work for the money and clarifying the responsibilities and tasks. Regardless of the outsourcing, I would also like to stress that of course we do not ‘privatise’ the responsibility for the safety and good running of the rail. The State of the Railway Agency is still responsible for the safety of infrastructure and train running – and it is still the State that pays for this to be done. This applies irrespective of who carries out specific tasks in the development, operation and maintenance of the railway on behalf of the railway works. A claim that we privatize the railway is, literally, a derailment of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e560	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e563	I'm recording that the majority of the committee goes beyond the state council, so there's reason to clarify what the state council thinks about it. The majority designate Norway as the worst in Europe in terms of security. I believe that the majority believe that the Railway Agency is not able to adequately ensure safety, and that the majority therefore believes that all production in the Railway Agency must be put out of competition. That is the problem today. My question is: is it the Council of State's opinion that, in order to avoid the stamp of Europe's worst, all production in the Railway Agency must be put out to competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e572	I see it as very important that we have a very high level of railway safety. In order to achieve this, we need to ensure that the means we use for just operation, maintenance and production of the railway provide the best possible accessibility for trains, and that the level of safety is the highest we can achieve. To succeed, we need a very conscious use of this money. Then I think it is right that we review which tasks are suitable for competitive outsourcing. I'm reasonably sure there's a good deal of work that will come in that category. It is then right to pick out the tasks that are appropriate, so that we have predictability in relation to what can and should be put out to competition, and which are of such a nature that they should be carried out by the Railway Agency as well as in the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e577	In my post I described two means of transport used to carry passengers to and from Oslo – Gardermoen. One – a privately owned bus company – transports passengers back and forth and provides a surplus in the treasury by, among other things. pays taxes on their profits and taxes on diesel. This company has collected all the capital itself, through the market. Then we have the Flytrain, which is state owned and now must have 300 million. Extra kroner. My first question is: why is it necessary that one carrier must absolutely be State owned? The second question is, when can we expect a case about BanePartner and BaneProduction to come to Stortinget? Can the Council of State suggest any time?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e584	We are now starting a review of which tasks are suitable for outsourcing, and which tasks are not, within the Railway Agency's portfolio. Once that job is done, and when the work continues in the interim company for what is today BaneService, we will return to the Stortinget with how this work is to be organised, what tasks can be put out of competition, and how to organise in an AS the company that is today BaneService. When we both use the bus and train to the main aerodrome, it is so that we have to use the transport system as efficiently as possible. That means we need both the railway and the buses on the roads. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we actually have two types of trains going to the airport, both the NSB and the Fly train.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e591	To the majority, who will go further, and who will release BanePartner and BaneProduction: In this context, I want to quote a few key chords from something that the railway company's director, Steinar Killi, has said in the driveway about the organisation they have now created: ‘We also have no problem admitting that the contractual regime we have had has not worked’... ‘We now take the consequences of this and try other models to achieve a stronger sense of ownership and yet maintain effective operation’. And on the other hand, ‘We also need to be better able to see the operation and maintenance in the context’... ‘so that we can better use the resources’. End: ‘It shall cease to be a retailer.’... ‘It shall end the violent internal work on contracts too large and too small with the resulting billing work.’ So the railway station has concluded that these units should not be released. My question is therefore whether the Minister for Transport supports and endorses the railway works' reorganization plan, the new model of the railway system. Does the Minister for Transport support the work done?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e611	I would like to draw attention to the fact that the case concerning the separation of BaneService as its own company has been in progress at the Railway Agency for a long time. This is not contrary to the commitment and will of the Railway Agency, this is a work that has been going on in the railway works for a long time. In relation to how you see it most appropriate to organise your work, it is clear that we need to listen to what the Railway Agency thinks. We also need to listen to other outsiders, who are able to see how we spend taxpayers' money in the most efficient way possible. We have the two obligations to manage this money every year. We have to make sure that we have organized the work in such a way that we have a good, attractive and safe railway in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e618	The NSB, the Railway Agency, the Railway Authority and the Accident Commission have all their clear tasks and responsibilities within the railway. When there is now a proposal to release BaneService, and perhaps in the long term BanePartner and BaneProduction, the tasks and perhaps also parts of the responsibility will be further divided. Is there not a danger that tasks and responsibilities will crumble, so that the division of responsibilities may become unclear? That's one question. So I want to grasp what Geir-Ketil Hansen asked questions about. When he referred to what the Railway Agency has said, and the conclusion they have come to – that not the exemption of the RailwayService, the RailwayProduction and the RailwayPartner is the ideal thing – the Council of State said that it is clear that it must listen to the Railway Agency and that this is not against their will. How can a person perceive it so differently – when the Railway Agency says no to exemption, and the Council of State is in favour of setting it free? How's the context there?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e625	I would like to emphasise again that the Railway Agency and the Director of the Railway Agency are in favour of the BaneService exemption, so it is clear that we are listening to the recordings that come from the Railway Agency. It has also been the case that, in relation to employees, trade unions have been involved in various ways in the process up to now, and it is also quite natural that employees are included in the further process. When we start working with the Interim Company, the rights and interests of employees in this process will be safeguarded by being represented on the board of the Interim Company, in the same way that they will be represented on the board after any transformation. This is important for me to stress – that the employees, who are a hugely important resource, will be included in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e631	There's a structural revolution before the race, said the committee leader. Yes, a right-wing revolution is there before traffic, and I wonder if the Council of State from the Left is happy in that revolution, directed to a large extent by the Progress Party in this hall. I must say that I was not particularly wise on the answer, on the contrary. I wonder why it has such a terrible hurry. Then we don't talk about BaneService, we're against the fact that it's going to become a share company. What is serious today is that there is a doubt about 2000 jobs for the whole railway system, about the entire competence we have in this area in this country. No one knows what's going on. Could not then have taken the review first, and then came to Stortinget with the proposal for a decision, instead of making decisions in Stortinget, and then look at what is to be covered. I understand this less and less, and I wonder if the Council of State takes seriously the fact that the First Vice President of the Railway Federation says that the plurality today is willing to gamble with certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e638	I would like to give a long talk to explain that the Left is occupied with railway operations. That's why I'm very pleased that from different teams in this room, there's a great deal of commitment to just a railway bet. I very much appreciate that you are interested in looking at alternative ways of organizing work, and that you are willing to look for ways to go to get even more out of the money with regard to this important transport and environmental effort that we can get through the railway. That's when we start working to get a proper review of what kind of tasks are well suited for outsourcing, and what's not. We need to have this review in a solid way before we actually decide how the organisation is to be. We will return this matter to Stortinget with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e648	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e651	The airline as its own company is an important icon for all of us who believe that rail is an important part of our environmental policy, and who believe that rail should continue to play an important role in Norway's transport system. The flight has become an attractive means of transport. With almost 35 pst. the market share of the flight has been a success. The Government Parties and the Workers' Party will grant the Flytrain 300 million. kr in equity to support the company's investment. We think it is a sensible investment in a time-real, fast and 'green' transport future. A life-saving railway alternative to the NSB will intensify the efforts of both companies. For railway friends there are unusually interesting things happening in Norway. Based on the Sem declaration, the government parties will transform as much of the business as possible into BanePartner, BaneProduction and BaneService into state limited liability companies. Thus, the production activities of the Railway Agency are put out to competition, and we achieve the organisationally vital distinction between the ordering and managing role on the one hand and the carrying out and producer role on the other. We shall do so in such a way that the Railway Agency retains full ordering competence. The apparatus intended to ensure the safety of planning and control is, of course, attached to the Railway Station. The government aims to set up a company based on BaneService from July 1st next year. Ideally, all the daughters of the railway works should be transformed simultaneously, but I am sure that the department will work to implement it as quickly as possible. The faster the transformation process takes place, the faster the efficiency gains can be made from the railway works’ production activities, so that we get more railways for money. By cultivating the function of the Railway Agency, we get a better organisation, in which it is more inspiring to work. On the production side, competition will expose appendixes and blindways and through it directs resources towards growth and safety, and that is where resources belong. That there are huge gains to be gained from competitive outsourcing, we have experience in the road sector. According to the figures provided by the Association of Machine Manufacturers, the efficiency gain from the competitive outsourcing of operation and maintenance on the road network is approximately 25 pst. The working party and SV refuse to move the gap between the management and manufacturer roles of the railway works. What has happened to the Workers' Party after the Stoltenberg government? That government proposed the following: «The decision agrees that the Ministry of Transport in 2002 may set up a limited liability company under the Railway Agency.» Now all of a sudden, the tone is a completely different one. Do we once again know the symbiotic relationship between the Workers' Party and trade union management? Are we sketching the contours of the Railway Federation, which, in its intense resistance to any efficiency measures, pushes the railway into the transport realm of sunset? The most targeted opponent in the Progress Party is going to be green from the envy of observing the far more effective performance of railway organisations in reducing rail shares. In a memo from ECON Analysis on 13 June this year, it is clear how much BaneService suffers from the lack of competitive exposure. The working party must choose between support for passengers and transport users on the one hand and the development refusal apostles in the organisations on the other. This government has the courage to reform the Norwegian administration. Where it is natural to cultivate management responsibilities, production units shall be separated. The Workers' Party will probably be voting against the competition exposure of the subsidiaries of the Railway Agency, which they opposed to separating the Road Service Production Department. But if the Workers' Party takes over government responsibility again, they will never convert this administrative reform, simply because the reform is so obviously resource-right. Otherwise, I'll promise to eat my handwriting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e669	You get to hide it for a while, and we'll see what it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e672	The setting that we are currently reviewing consists of several parts. I'll say a little about the Fly train. Now this state plane train is going to get even more money. We remember from the past how glittering this collective offer should be. It would give a return of a whole of 7 pst., according to the setting when this path was to be built. After that, the debt has been released on the track from Gardermoen to Eidsvoll at NOK 1.7 billion. It wasn't enough, so you left the debt on the track from Oslo to Gardermoen, NOK 7 billion. And today, an additional 300 million is allocated. of taxpayers' money to a public limited company. In addition, we have private buses running side by side with the train, and they don't get a red ear in the subsidies of this hall. They also drive at a much cheaper price than the Fly train, which today costs NOK 300 for a trip/return. The buses go evenly, several times cheaper, without having all these billions. I've said it in many articles before, and I repeat it this time as well: it's soon time for private people to take over the flight. Finally, for once I want to praise the Council of State. I am very satisfied with much of what is in this setting today, including. that, finally, this hall will transform and competitively expose larger parts of the railway works. If there's something that needs to be seen, it's really the railway station.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e681	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e684	I have asked for the floor to stress to the Minister for Transport that she misunderstood my question instead. My question was not what she thought about BaneService and the exemption from BaneService. The question was whether she would support the conclusion of the Railway Agency and the Railway Federation, that BanePartners and BaneProduction should not be released. If you read the reasons that the railway itself has given for just that, it is that you want to achieve better quality, better efficiency and better internal cooperation within the railway for operation and maintenance by not doing so. When the Minister for Transport so strongly stressed in his statement that it was very important to listen to the Railway Agency, to the professionals and to the employees, she must come back and explain whether she supports the reorganisation process and the reorganisation decision that the Railway Agency has taken. So it's not about BaneService, it's about BanePartners and BaneProduction. Then it must be strange for the Minister of Transport to hear Hans Kjästad's contribution, which so contemptuously refers to the employees and employees' organisations in the railway sector. Knowing their contribution to the development of Norwegian railways in the future, it must be strange for the Minister of Transport to hear that contribution. I would also like to ask the question whether the Minister for Transport agrees with Hans Kjästad's mention of the employees and employees' organisations within the Norwegian railway system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e691	It always makes sense to add a little bit to what is said by the opponent, because then it says so much better. I did not say anything contemptuous about the employees and their work, whether it concerns the Railway Agency or any other administrative body in this country. We're totally dependent on the employees. We can't do anything without it. What I allow myself to point out is that trade union leaders – I say it again, maybe the representative Hansen understands what I'm saying – trade union leaders have some form of influence that may not go in a favorable direction in relation to the future of the railway. I once again referred to what the government of Stoltenberg said when it came to the exemption of the daughters of the railway works. It is in deep contrast to what the Workers' Party says in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e698	It is true that the Railway Agency has had a review of its tasks and its organisation and is committed to a change of organisation in terms of BaneService. Then it is our task – my task – to also go through and see if we can see from our point of view, as we see it, that the organisation of work and production, maintenance and operation at the railway station is as optimal as it can be, or if further improvements can be found. We're willing to do this job, and that's why we want to go through this organization and the division of tasks properly. The Interim Company will be established, and we will have a review of what kind of tasks can be added to this type of activity and what tasks can be put off for competition. This responsibility lies with us all the time. No matter how our underlying agencies and businesses or companies wish to organise their business best, we – I – have overall responsibility, in line with the Stortinget, to ensure that we carry out this work in the best possible way and in the most secure way possible. Therefore, I also want to continue to listen to what the Railway Agency, both management and employees, believes, and we have a separate responsibility to go through this organisation. In this work, as I have said before, the employees will also be drawn, because I think they have important input. When we come to the final decision, it will be based on both the input from the Railway Agency's management and from its employees and external assessments. I think this is very important, and I think this is a duty we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e710	The Labour Party has no ideological relation to whether we should organise things as a corporation or as public corporations. But we've now tried some changes, and we need to stop to see if this works as we thought: is it going to be more effective? Can we get more out of the money? Can we take care of social governance in a good enough way, for example. security? Therefore, there is no contradiction between what we have meant before, and that we mean now. We want a pause, and then we're going to come back to what the next step is. So we believe, as Svein Roald Hansen said in a debate earlier this month, that if it is to be a corporation, and if we are to talk about competition, it must be possible to have competition. What ECON says, is that there is too little work for those in the Railway Agency to continue with what BaneService is currently doing. And then we're going to set up more new companies to compete in a market where there won't be any competition! It will first become a state monopoly and in the next round perhaps a private monopoly. There won't be any competition. Then I must say that I respond again to the fact that Kjästad is dedicating trustees in that way. I'm taking a lot of distance from it. I think we have a trust machine in Norway with a great deal of responsibility. They may be against the formation of a corporation, which was connected when it was Mesta, but when it's first decided, they go in and work constructively. That's what the railway has done in many ways. They're in dialogue with the leadership and they've made a lot of changes, and I think that saying that they're basically backward and not wanting to change is going really far. At least this is in the whole way that Kjästad talks about it in his first post, and then he reverses a little in the second post – moderates a little. I see it's trusted here, and I have to say, notice that the trust from the Right to the Trusted is not particularly great, at least not in this case. So finally, why did I take the word. I am basically quite sorry that the Council of State does not respond to the questions we ask when we have replicas. We're trying to ask some questions, and I'm wondering if she wants to read the setting where the multiple wants one to «work to transform and put off competition major parts of the production of the railway works, including jobs in the Railway Partners and the Railway Production». No longer called BanePartner. PathProduction should actually be reorganized or reorganized from 1 January, so it doesn't match the reality of the event. But has she read this, and does she think it's reasonable that a first person decides that it should be changed, and then a first person should start talking about what should be changed? Wouldn't it be wise to do it the opposite? Is there a satisfactory way to involve those in which the debt is owed, that a first is given the decision, and then only to be present and pry a little at the outcome of the decision of principle, or of the principle, that has already been made?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e726	The presentation of the articles by the Workers' Party and the SV of the Kjästad is, of course, totally beyond reason. It's not like this was an attack on the employees. In fact, the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party are pushing employees in front of them to reach a political point where their argument fails altogether. What Kjestad brings up is a system change. Kjestad and I probably fully agree that the employees of the Railway Agency and in private companies are just as much worth and provide just as well, but the systems have to be changed, and that is what we are discussing here. What I really took the floor for was my question to the Council of State. I had a question to the Council of State that there are buses from a bus company that are privately owned and run with profits, and in addition, there is a train that is state owned – and it looks as if it has to be state owned further in order for it to go. In the reply I received from the Council of State, I was informed that the NSB is also going to Gardermoen. It is possible that the Council of State believes that my knowledge of the means of transport between Oslo and Gardermoen is very small, but I am aware that trains from the NSB are also running. I've actually taken the NSB on that distance. For information, there are also taxis. But that wasn't my question. My question was why it must be absolutely such that one company, or rather two of the companies, on death and life must be state owned. Could someone explain it to me, it would have been very pleasant.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e733	We have seen a development of the debate recently where three-minute inserts are used as an extension of the line chord exchange. The President must say that he is not very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e736	I don't mean to use the post like this on my part, but I understand that my answer was not perceived as an answer to questions about what I think of what the majority says in their comment. I see an absolute need to go through the principles of competitive outsourcing, and I think it is clear that there are tasks within the Railway Agency that are not currently exposed to competition that can be put out of competition. I have said that we want a proper review of it, and I have also said that the final decision on BaneService is not made here today. We'll get back to Stortinget with that. I would like to stress that strongly. The principles are finally laid down then, and then we can give a proper review of what we are going to put in the competitive environment, and what we think might not be competitive. This review, I think, is very healthy and very sensible. That's why I appreciate the majority's comments in this area, and I'm going to follow this up. But it must also mean that we are allowed to take that review with open eyes, that I am also allowed from my point of view to take the review and look at what is of such a nature that it cannot be put out of competition. Initially, I think a great deal can be put out of competition. Then to the bus to the Gardermoen, and the railway. We need a high collective share for Gardermoen. It was in the prerequisites for the construction of the main aerodrome. We've built the Fly train, we've built the infrastructure, and it's going very well. When people are willing to pay to travel by air, I actually think they'll be allowed to do it, and when the economy of the airline seems to be getting good, especially when it expands equity so that it can handle its loans in a more sensible way, I'm very pleased with it. I am very pleased that buses also go, which can be operated commercially and thus contribute to a high collective share in terms of traffic to the main airport.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e743	I have no intention of extending the lines, but I would like to sum up a point that has been central to the debate. The question of whether the majority has concluded on whether to transform and put off competition BanePartners and BaneProduction. We, who belong to the minority, have read the majority's comment so that it has been concluded positively. After repeated rounds here in the hall, we have to conclude today that that opinion does not share the Council of State. We are pleased with that, and we are so pleased that she has made it clear that the follow-up that will take place from the Government's side of these majority remarks will be a review, and that it is in no way certain that BaneProduction and BanePartner will be exposed to competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e748	There are indications of how BaneService is to be organised, but the final decisions related to this will come back once the interim company has gone through strategies and the future of this company. Then Stortinget will be presented with what this might look like. If you choose to go in for this or towards it, it's up to Stortinget. But I am in favour of separating BaneService from an AS, and that we are to challenge several of the tasks that are within the railway station's area today. I see that there's consensus between the majority and me about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e753	Hans Gijisar Kjästad has spoken twice and gets the word for a short comment limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e756	I took the floor to refute the statement from the representative Ausdal Starrfelt that I moderated in my second post in relation to the first. I didn't do that. I just pointed out that there is a difference between the political elements and the symbiosis between trade union leaders and the Labour Party on the one hand, and the efforts made by ordinary employees in the Norwegian administration. That's a difference, and we understand, of course, that there's anxiety when we're in a system shift in Norwegian administration, which we're in now. We need to understand that one can be concerned about one's workplaces, but we need to make sure that the new system should give equal rights and be as dynamic and much more interesting as the workplace. We want to put the users in the center. It has been the guide to what the Government is doing here – using resources correctly. [[President clubs]] There's a lot of resources we're talking about, which I referred to in the examples of Mesta and Vegvesen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e761	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox Furthermore, the President appears that the Committee should engage in an internal discussion on how the debates are to be conducted. [[See page 1491]] The President does not seem to be in the interest of either the Committee or the Storting, that there should be a three-minute exchange of views and such discussions as we have heard here. It is a recommendation that goes to the Committee as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e779	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e786	Today, we are going to consider Document No. 8:15 for 2003-2004, by the Socialist Left Party and the Progressive Party, suspending the agreed partial toll financing of road development in the Tønsberg region. It has been no longer than in January that the Stortinget agreed to the local application to partially finance the development of the road network in the Tønsberg region. The decision was then taken against the votes of the Socialist Left Party and the Progressive Party. Six months later, the same parties tried to change their mind, without any new elements in the matter. The proposal by the Socialist Left and the Progressive Party is supported only by these parties. The other parties reject the proposal. I believe that the Socialist Left and the Progressive Party will justify their position. I will go through what the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party, have stressed. The majority have suggested that when St. pp, the size and the bulk of the population are treated. No 38 for 2002-2003 supported a partially toll-financed development of the road system in the Tønsberg area, this was based on the initiative of the local authorities on such an extension. The Ramsar regions are at the heart of the proposals. As stated in the Minister of Transport letter of 9 December 2003, consideration of the Ramsar area has been taken into account in the planning process. Both the County of Westfold, the Environmental Protection Department, and the Ministry of the Environment are pleased with the way this has been handled. The majority share this assessment. A third factor is that stopping the Tønsberg package at this stage would entail considerable costs, as amounts up to 100 million. kr has already been incurred and contracts have already been concluded. On this basis, the majority proposes to reject the proposals in Document No. 8:15. That the Socialist Left Party and the Advance Party are against the Tønsberg package is neither new nor surprising. Nor is it surprising that the Socialist Left Party is proselytizing on the environment and showering with the feathers on behalf of the local bird population. The surprising thing is that the Progress Party throws itself into tranedance with the Socialist Left Party and justifies its resistance to the Tønsberg package with great ornithological experience. When the Socialist Left Party was concerned about the current year's budget for transport, the lockdown elections were being expanded by the E39 in Mr. The municipality of Søviknes did not come with a pipe from the Party of Advancement. The Progress Party is voting against most of the toll projects and later on as if they could finance these projects through their budgets. At best, it's deaf. In three Document No: Eight proposals have been proposed by the Progress Party for the development of E6 Svinesund-Oslo-Kirkenes and E18 Ørje-Oslo-Kristiansand. The conservative estimate of the costs of these expansions shows a minimum cost of DKK 100 billion. It is assumed that these projects will be completed by 2015. So an extra 10 billion is required on the investment budget per year. years only for these projects. Is the Advance Party in the vicinity of fulfilling these promises? Of course not. In the 2004 budget, the Progress Party proposes to increase the investment budget by just over DKK 5 billion, i.e. half of what they promised. And even this effort must be financed by destroying the railways, the safety of the sea and the postal services in the districts. Nor do the roadlifts of the Progress Party have credibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e819	It would be historical falsification to claim that the debate on the Tønsberg package has little involvement and involvement with the local population. Everyone in the area has been familiar with the matter and has known well about both the fore and the counter-arguments. The road to final decisions on the Tønsberg package has therefore been an exemplary democratic process. An active minority wanted a different decision from that taken. It's a right. But I'm taking away that parts of this minority are now trying, with immeasurable means, to get to a rematch. This is a mockery of the democratic process that has taken place and only contributes to a political disdain that no one should see fit to see. In this case, the SV is shocking me the most. I feel exposed to a trick game. Everything is in a way permitted in the service of good. The goal sanctifies the means. This Document No The 8 proposal is the best example of environmental fundamentalism I've seen in a long time. It is more a strong contribution to weakening the environmental struggle in Norway than the opposite. That was probably not the intention, but it will be the consequence when the policy is about doing the second best to the best enemy. Involuntarily, SV becomes a useful idiot for the environmental opponents. All who are not 100 pst. with, your courage. If you're in favour of a Tønsberg package, you're an environmental criminal. This is an unfine rule technique. There won't be many alliances with such a starting point. Note how the representative Sørensen formulates his question to the Council of State: Why were the Norwegian Ramsar authorities not informed of the intervention in the Presterødkilen and Ilene wetlands? Should they be informed? Were they not informed because they could make serious objections? The point was that they should not be informed, either as a Ramsar authority or as a Directorate for Nature Management. There was no objection to the plan or treatment, which is the prerequisite for such an enquiry. The only thing that exists is a disagreement about the project, and that's no news. So what we see is a bad attempt at a rematch. Actually, it's an obstruction. The reasons for the proposal refer to the Ramsar Convention. What does that mean? In the relevant text of the Convention, in Article 3.2, my translation reads: ‘Each Contracting Party shall ensure that, at the earliest possible time, the ecological nature of any of the wetlands and land areas included in the list has changed, is altered or is expected to change as a result of technical progress, pollution or other human intervention. Information on such changes shall be communicated without delay to the organisation or authority responsible for the current cases.’;» Norway has not acted contrary to this. For this reason, the Directorate for Nature Management has not been contacted, nor has the Ramsar Secretariat been contacted. On the other hand, a private person or organisation has made such contact and tried to raise doubts about the work of the Tønsberg package. The proposer is now trying to create the impression that this Secretariat has responded and sent a sharp letter to the Norwegian authorities and asked for an explanation of the environmental impact of the project. This is not true. The Ramsar Secretariat has only asked the Directorate for Information on possible ecological changes resulting from the project and on what measures will be taken to prevent any negative consequences. The letter has been sent to the Ministry of the Environment. They have had the matter before, and had no comments in the matter. The questions raised by the Ramsar Secretariat have therefore in reality been answered before they were asked. I believe that the Tønsberg package is the best environmental solution to traffic problems in the Tønsberg area. Timberberg package is an environmental package. I respect those who had to have a different opinion from me, but I do not respect those who have to almost criminalise my opinions in order to defend their own positions. These people represent an extremism which, at worst, can be a threat in the struggle for a sustainable society.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e843	This is a matter where local democracy and confidence in the political system are put to the test. In the 1995 elections, the Road Package Tønsberg and bombing around Tønsberg were not a theme. In 1996, the right-wing rapporteur, Mr Tønsberg, appeared in the newspapers and assured that bombing was not relevant. Nevertheless, the bombing company Tønsberg Hauptvegfinans AS is formed during this parliamentary period, in August 1999, and plans for the first stage of the road package are discussed. Since then, it has been claimed that all those who had counter performances were too late. In 1999, there was very poor information on the matter to the voters, and most of them did not understand that they were voting, for example. The Right or Workers' Party supported the bombing around Tønsberg and a very expensive road development. Besides, it was already too late. As I said, the bomber was established before the election. After the 1999 elections, the population began to understand what was going on, and the protests were overwhelming. The opponents of the bombing and the road package organized themselves, and the newspapers are full of dedicated posts and letters of readers, and have been there for a long time. But politicians chose not to listen to voters, and this was punished by the 2002 elections. Democracy worked. The parties that were for the Road Package Tønsberg and bombing suffered a severe defeat, and in the election the attendance in Tønsberg was approx. 20 pst. higher than the national average. In the letters of the National Council for Forestsholm, it says: ‘If a practice opens up where new municipal governments can stop an already adopted decision on the size of a local initiative by the old municipal authorities in the same municipalities, it will be difficult to continue the tolling arrangements as they are practised today. If such new local decisions end up changing the view of the Storting, predictability, which is important in this type of case, will disappear, which is very unfortunate, and overall will result in a very poor use of pesticides.’ I would like to quote a great personality from Tønsberg, the rapporteur, Per Arne Olsen, and say that most of us are obviously hovering in the error that we have elected the elected bodies to change or confirm the majority, whether it be local government, county council or the Grand Council. With the mentality of the Council of State and of the majority, elected bodies should only deal with new issues and not reconsider previous decisions through elections, and therefore the Stortinget should not be allowed to reconsider the Tønsberg package. This position was also expressed by the Council of State when she recently rejected the rapporteur's request for the postponement of the Tønsberg package. Clearly, predictability is more important to the Council of State than democratic legitimacy, despite the fact that toll projects should have been accepted locally, which the Council of State was fully aware of not being the case, given that in the opinion poll it was more than 80 pst. That was against the bombing. The changes in the majority of Tønsberg city government and Nøtterøy municipal government were historical and almost extreme, and the main reason for this is to find a local democratic response to the Tønsberg package and its bombing. The local government can also show a significant change in the composition of the local government, in addition to the fact that the ‘bomber wind’ from Tønsberg blew with such a strength that it made a rash in the Westfold county, which also bears the mark of it. A fundamental feature of a democratically elected politician should be that he must bring with him a majority of the population on legitimate political measures. Everything else leads to short and good that there is a democratic deficit, in order to express it mildly. State Council Skogsholm's letter to the Stortinget Committee on Transport does not contain a single moment when democratic values are expressed, despite the fact that she herself represents the Left Party – a party that publishes election programmes completely permeated by democratic idealism. Chapter 13 on, inter alia: local democracy in the 2002 municipal proposal contains clear formulations that should make it a political impossibility for the Council of State as part of the Government to move forward as she does towards the local population in Tønsberg and surrounding areas. If the Stortinget allows the Government by the Minister of Transport to announce to its citizens that changing the composition of local government does not imply the right to change previous decisions, we are confronted with a serious situation that leaves behind an impression that could lead to lower electoral participation, simply and correctly, because people see that democratic processes such as elections have no purpose. It's a scary development that we in the Progress Party take a distance from. We will follow up on what the democratically elected local governments in these areas have done. I will deal with the proposals we have made with the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e875	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e878	This is an unfortunate thing. This is not a matter in which you think it is fun or polite to engage. It's a case that's been given an unfortunate treatment and an unfortunate outcome. I believe that the reason why we are discussing this matter here today is that someone just before the municipal elections decided to run through a case about the Tønsberg package, despite the fact that you could already relatively clearly see that after the municipal elections it would not be a majority for that. It has the majority in this room and the majority who were at the time on Nøtterøy, in Tønsberg and at Tjøme, the right to do, but wisely I don't think it was. It's not good that we've got a state like the one that's been in those municipalities, with such massive resistance to a project as the resistance to the Tønsberg package. I don't think it was a wise way to handle it locally. Nor was it wise for the Government and the majority on the Storting to push this through. And that's how democracy works. But the unfortunate road package is realized. In connection with the Tønsberg package in the previous round, we mentioned that it was a bad project. It was a bad project for public transport, just 5 pst. Collective participation, and we thought it was a poor solution, which could lead to intervention in the only bird reserve in Westfold, the Ramsar area in the Presterødkilen and Ilene. In the final reading, we were assured by the Council of State that this would be taken into account, but a majority in the Committee would not be there at the time, nor would we give decisive consideration to protecting this reserve. Now it's quite often we have wetlands in the vicinity of where a road is to be built. It is quite often that we face conflicts that make us have to make some choices – whether we should take the birds into account or not. And that's not so nice. For the vast majority of Norwegian towns lies at the mouth of a river, at a fjord. It is also where birds find nourishment and have their most important areas of life. Therefore, our land disposals in such press areas are essential if we are to be able to protect the relatively few remaining good bird reserves we have. The scabbard wedge alone can sign with more than 235 registered species. It's a lot, it's a lot! It's mostly wading, ducks and geese, but because there's so much of that variety, it also turns out that some predators are visiting the area. There are even observed king eagles there, and fish eagles are observed relatively frequently, as well as many falcon species. It is also relatively large in scale. It's an area that's worth taking care of. I don't know if I'm going to take it up badly – and I'm referring to the representative Froyn – when I'm called an extremist. I don't mean to be. I mean to pick up an area that I think is easily overrun, that we should take into account our wetlands and our bird reserves. The area is protected under the Ramsar Convention. In that case, where intervention concerns Article 3.2, the responsible Ramsar authority in Norway shall be notified. It's our countrymen relatively good to live by. And in many cases with much less intervention than what will take place in connection with the Tønsberg Package, the Directorate of Nature Management is notified, and you can review it. The County of Westfold chose not to do so. We find that alarming, and therefore we would like to wait for the answer to the Ramsar Secretariat on the letter they sent to the Directorate of Nature Management to get a statement on this matter. Unfortunately, the majority have refused to wait for that answer, but we promise to follow the case further.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e893	The size of the Tønsberg pack was treated as late as 28 January 2003 after extensive work, including: by the fact that the municipalities of Tønsberg, Nøtterøy and Tjøme had made their decisions on a significant expansion and major improvements in the availability of this area by means of tolls. This is something Vestfold county also gave its support in retrospect. The development of the Tønsberg area thus had a local political majority as a basis before the Stortinget took its decision less than a year ago. Therefore, it is stated in the letter from the Ministry of Transport on the occasion of the case that ‘all material’ was known at the time of the examination in January of this year. When representatives Kenneth Svendsen and Heidi Sørensen now promote a Document No. 8 proposals on the occasion of the case, it is well to suggest a rematch from the minority after previous treatment here in Stortinget. It is strange that the bicycle-motorway alliance is united on this proposal to postpone the launch of the Tønsberg package’s many important transport policy elements in an area with major challenges in order to address the emergence of freight and passenger transport. Based on experience with the Socialist Left Party and the Advance Party on major road projects, I am somewhat surprised. They have in each way been less willing to enter into a realistic bet. The development of heavy projects has been a task for the government parties as well as for the Workers' Party and the Centre Party to be realised. With the model of the Progress Party with full funding from the state, many projects would probably have to wait for many, long years before they were realised. Therefore, the lot becomes unfortunately statist in relation to the individual projects. Likewise, it is with the Socialist Left Party. I think we need to recognise that the Tønsberg region now needs rapid improvements in accessibility, with the development of the road network as well as a stronger commitment to collective services, which must be further developed in this area as soon as possible. There seems to be nothing new in the matter, and I therefore allow myself to recommend the majority's proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e906	What we're debating now is essentially a strange thing. The case of Tønsbergpaket was finished processed in the spring half of the year. The requirement that the Storting should join a toll scheme is that positive decisions have been taken in local government and county councils. All of this was in place when things came to Stortinget. I consider it obvious that before municipal and county decisions were taken, it has given local opportunities for anyone who has had any opinion on this, to come up with their point of view. Since the decision was taken in the spring of this year, the preparation and start of implementation have led to the economic impact of stopping work. I am therefore surprised to see that, for so long after the decision has been taken, proposals for a temporary stoppage will be put to work. Based on the arguments used for temporary stoppages, the local inhabitants' views and the concerns of the Ramsar area, this proposal is even more strange. Both of these arguments were important aspects of this, too, as things were before in Stortinget. Decisions are always taken by the local government and county council, and these are the decisions the Stortinget must base. Without local initiative and decisions, Tønsbergpaket would not be a matter for Stortinget. There would be a strange system if, after a local election, the Storting stopped completing the action or took new decisions in cases if a new local government changed its position. For various reasons, local resistance to road packages or road solutions is nothing new. I don't know a single toll project where there's no more or less privacy. But not all locations are equal. In many places, there is a large number of people who realize that with the small promises contained in the transport budget, part of toll financing can be the only possible solution to finance, at least if you want a quick solution to the project. Also, the questions about Ramsar areas are not new. The Ministry has done a good job in replying to the Committee. The importance of the Ramsar areas has been a premise in planning. This is reflected in the approved regulatory plan and is an important point in the impact assessment that is under way. The Ministry of the Environment does not comment on the way in which the legislation on the enforcement of the laws on planning and building is managed. I think this is satisfactory information. The centre party is part of the plurality which goes in order to reject the proposal in Document No presented. The 8th proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e921	Ministry of Transport in St.prp. No 38 for 2002-2003 proposals for toll-financed development of projects and actions in the Tønsberg area. The Tønsberg package was established on the initiative of the three municipalities of Tønsberg, Nøtterøy and Tjøme, who wanted to develop a comprehensive transport system with new main roads, measures for public transport, pedestrian and cycle roads and environmental and road safety measures. The first priority was the construction of new Rv 311 Ringveg East-West Kjelle-Kilen as well as smaller measures in Tønsberg and Tjøme. Other projects and actions shall be clarified through an impact assessment expected by the end of 2004. Local decisions have been fully based on both the priority projects and actions, the two-stage implementation time aspect and the arrangements for toll collection. Through the treatment of the 2004 State budget, the size has been introduced for the start-up of Rv 311 Ringveg East-West Kjelle-Kilen in 2004. The information provided in the proposal by the representatives of Kenneth Svendsen and Heidi Sørensen was mainly known in the Stortinget treatment of the toll bill for the Tønsberg package 28. of January 2003. In committee work, an open hearing was organised on 8 January 2003, in which the anti-bombing action group presented its views. The relationship with the Ramsar areas was also highlighted in the discussion, where I answered Question No. 3 by the Transport Committee. The consequences of a temporary stop will be large. On the basis of previous decisions, expenditures of less than 100 million have been incurred. kr for the preparation of the start of collection on 2 February 2004 and the start of the construction of the ring road at Easter times. Against this background, I am pleased that the majority of the Committee on Transport agrees that there is no reason to stop the work of Phase 1 of the Tønsberg package and the ongoing impact assessment of Phase 2 measures. It is important to stress that if a practice is opened in which new local authorities can stop an already adopted decision on the size of a local initiative by the old local authorities in the same municipalities, it will be difficult to continue tolling schemes as they are practised today. If such new local decisions end up in a change of opinion by the Stortinge, predictability, which is important in this type of case, will disappear. This, I believe, is very unfortunate, and overall it will result in poor use of pesticides. However, I would like to stress that the implementation of phase 2 needs to be reviewed when the impact assessment and the local priorities are available. Like the proponents of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left, I am committed to a local assessment of measures to strengthen public transport, and I agree with the rapporteurs that there is a need in this case to look at other solutions for phase 2, inter alia. by assessing simpler road solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e939	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e942	In the past, we had a case about Rv 4. There was also the resistance to the boom that was set up, very large. In that case, the Council of State turned before the matter was dealt with in Stortinget – and took down the boom. We discussed the matter here a few months later. In this case in Tønsberg the resistance is even greater. Here even the municipalities go against it. The state's share in the Tønsbergpaket is down in ridiculous 5 pst. In fact, in the case of Rv 4, it was 50–50. Doesn't the Council of State have any understanding of the local population's protests in the Tønsberg case, as she had in the Rv4 case?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e947	The ratios associated with Rv 4 and the conditions associated with the Tønsberg package are completely different. What made us change the system related to Rv 4 wasn't a change in the attitude of people, it was a connection between changes in actual conditions – changes in relation to assumptions, which were very dramatic, and which made us go in and look at how we could do this in a better way. And we came up with a better solution. In this case, there was nothing significant new, as I mentioned in my post, which made me think that there was reason to re-enter the Tønsberg package at this time. We also have to distinguish between phase 1 and phase 2 in the package. Had there been some completely new information and new circumstances that were the reason for going further, I would have looked at it, but here I saw nothing new in this case that made it possible to go into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e952	From an old age, we know Left as an environmental party. After the events of the past few weeks, the image has become somewhat shaken, it probably does not apply primarily to this matter, but to birds and fishes that are far northerly than Tønsberg. I know that the Council of State has previously been concerned with protecting wetlands, even when it comes into conflict with desired transport projects, such as. The Ringerix Railway. We got the Tønsberg pack for the first time relatively soon afterwards, and I have to say that I am amazed at the difference in the way these two projects were treated. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State stresses that a proper impact assessment shall be carried out for the Tønsberg-packak phase 2. My question to the Council of State is: if you find that the Tønsberg package phase 2 road is in conflict with the wetlands area, do you have any use of phase 1 at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e961	The benefits of the project, I understand, are also seen locally as large – both phase 1 and phase 2. I think it is important that we have a proper review of the project, also in relation to the environmental aspects. It is therefore important that the environmental protection authorities through the counties have the opportunity to intervene through such processes, precisely to ensure that national nature protection interests are safeguarded when land plans and regulatory plans are drawn up, as conditions have been here. This process has been carried out, and the county has then assessed it to you that the case could proceed as it has been. We have to trust – and I do – that we have good professionals who can come in if it turns out it is in conflict with nature protection interests. So has not happened in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e966	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e971	The traffic in Tønsberg and its surroundings has long been a major problem not only for those who drive there, but also for those who live in Tønsberg City and who experience that it is car queue every day. The cars stand and emit exhaust while they stand still and wait, and this contaminates the vicinity significantly. So there's going to be a big environmental gain when there's a car in Tønsberg all day. For many years now, there has been a strong desire from many people, from the rapporteur in Tønsberg and the rapporteurs in the neighbouring municipalities before the last elections, to have the solution that was adopted here in Stortinget earlier this year, after a years of democratic process. It was a great pleasure when the decision was taken. But, as always in democratic processes, it was a minority and a majority, and the minority was not well satisfied. That then some parties in the municipal election campaign promised that they would have the decision reversed here in Stortinget, for which they knew they would not get a majority, is no less than trickery, I think. That many voters went on this, to me, is quite incredible. But today we see that the majority stands by the decision we have taken, and I am very happy on behalf of the majority of the people of Tønsberg that we reject the proposal here today. However, the most serious thing about this matter is that emergency vehicles, such as ambulances and fire trucks, are currently very difficult to get to Tønsberg when the cars are in long queues. And that's to the hospital in Tønsberg the most serious cases run, from all over Vestfold. The cases that need to be brought to the hospital as soon as possible persist today, and that has to end. Now that we also know that the medical car is shut down – there will not be doctors in the cars – the immediate-help patients need to get even faster to the hospital in Tønsberg, where the doctors are.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e982	During the debate several people have said that there is nothing new in the matter. Well, that's something new. Strangely enough, there are obviously several people who have not brought it. There has been a choice, a choice in which the majority of the local population clearly announce that they do not want any of the Tønsberg package – a project that has not yet started. The only thing that's happened, of course, is that the bombs have come up, but it's still quite possible to stop this project, because it's not been taken so far as the roads are concerned. Otherwise, I think the whole problem is oversized. There's no big problem in Tønsberg. There's no bigger problem in Tønsberg than there are in other cities of this size. We have a little rush traffic problem that every city has, half an hour in the morning and half an hour in the evening. I live in the area and have been a user of this road for years by working on the other side of the city, I have been driving through the city morning and evening – for years, as I said. I've taken the time I spend for fun, except directly in my rush hour. Through Tønsberg we use exactly 8 – 8 – minutes and here we are going to build a road project worth billions of dollars, and that is going to cause the population big – I would say – suffering, for many years. Kenneth Svendsen presented the party's view of the matter in an excellent way, so I don't have to repeat it. But it's interesting that 80 pst. they don't want this solution, because that's not the problem that someone wants it to. This has been demonstrated by polls, and it is quite clear. So the turnout went up in the Tønsberg area by 20 pst. precisely because of this project, and it is quite remarkable. The bombings Right and Workers' Party suffered crushing defeat. I will not, out of modesty, mention what the Progress Party in these municipalities got, but it was good results. But, strangely enough, even though the population has a very clear view of this, so these parties don't care about this, nor does the Council of State. Talk about respect for local democracy and the opinion of the people! No, stop the whole project, listen to the people! Carry out an impact assessment where better alternatives can perhaps be taken into account, as well as public transport – it has been largely forgotten in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e993	The next speaker is Per Erik Monsen, then Hans Kristian Hopnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e996	The council said there was nothing new in the matter. Of the answer to one of the lines, it was clear that she perceived it so that there were people who had changed their mind. It's not like that. The people's opinion has been clear all along, it just hasn't been expressed through elections until now in the autumn. It is interesting to read the letter from the Council of State to the Committee dated 9 December. I'll quote something that's been quoted up to several times before from this pulpit today: ‘If a practice opens up where new municipal governments can stop an already adopted decision on the size of a local initiative by the old municipal authorities in the same municipalities, it will be difficult to continue the tolling arrangements as they are practised today.’ Yes, it would have been so wrong! At least I don't think so. I think, in a way, that we are looking at the democratic principles and talking about more bureaucratic systems that need to be taken care of. But it is not the case that someone wants to open the way for municipal councils to over-test decision-making. That's not what this is about. This is an initiative by two grubbing-up representatives, including: wish to listen to the opinion of the population of the municipalities concerned. As I said both in polls and not least now in the municipal elections, where the road package for the first time in elections was a real theme, a massive resistance to the whole project was evident. Some parties went forward, and some went back, and it was clearly related to this one matter. And, as mentioned by up to several speakers, the participation in this election in Tønsberg was completely different from that of the rest of the country. It was also related to this matter – quite clearly. The voters clearly stated that they did not want a wall of toll stations around their city. Local initiatives have made it clear that a majority do not see themselves served by the roads included in the road package, and alternative solutions have been developed that are more reasonable and gentle for the environment, cultural landscapes and cultural memories. When the voters in the municipalities concerned have so clearly expressed their opinion, it should be possible to carry out a temporary stop in the project in order to re-treat the local authorities and to have time to carry out an impact assessment of the entire project.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1017	Then it's Hans Kristian Hogsnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1024	Honored President! A few more times, you might have learned the name! The stuttering is today presented with the long announced rematch on the road package Tønsberg, or Tønsbergpaket, as it is called in this case. Not surprisingly, I must be allowed to agree entirely with the majority of the Committee on Transport and with the Minister for Transport, who rejects such a rematch. The justification given to open another round of consideration of this matter simply does not meet objectives, either professionally or politically. And although there might have been a lot to say about Kenneth Svendsen's, Heidi Sørensen's and Per Ove Width's history, I leave it here, in a three-minute post. For us with local links to the Tønsberg area, it is not surprising that SV is concerned about the environment, although in principle they are not against bomb resolution. They really want a bomb, but they don't want a new way. It's a little worse for the Progress Party that wants a new road, but not a bomb. Their sudden care for the Ramsar areas is a little more surprising, especially when we know that the party was relatively recently fighting to get a large hotel close up to the nature reserve on the Ilene, where the marina was for security in the peaced wetlands. Worse still, the Presterødskilen nature reserve, where the Advance Party is now actively fighting to open up an area of warehouse and office buildings, for full retail. This area is located outside of the girrasa, towards the nature reserve itself, and will thus pose an even greater threat to the 235 registered bird species for which the Progress Party is now concerned. All the favours of the County Environmental Protection Department in Westfold, which, at a very early stage of the project, put the Ramsar areas on the map and which, from the first meeting of the Cooperation Group, made it clear which framework the project could relate to. It has also happened, in close and good cooperation between the municipalities concerned, the county council, the county council and the state road authority. After all, it is time to finally conclude for this first stage of the road package Tønsberg. After more than 25 years of discussion, a majority of local authorities in Tjøme, Nøtterøy and Tjøsberg, as well as in Vestfold County – and earlier this year also a large majority here in Stortinget – have finally concluded. A solution has been chosen, and construction is now under way. And as Document No. 8:15 very clearly illustrates, there is no overall alternative to what has already been adopted by a large majority here in the Storting. On the other hand, there are very many shelf meters of alternatives and plans from 25 years of planning. In addition, a local action group has now submitted proposals for new routes, which are also intended to be bomb-financed to all over the world. Now we're in the first round. And then we're going to build the first part of the new road system. It will really be good for the environment in Tønsberg, for the quality of living in the centre, for road safety and for a business with an ever-growing transport needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1041	I think it's important for the Storting to know what it means to refer to the Ramsar Convention, because this is being abused, and what I think is unworthy of the Storing. I react to the Ramsar Convention being regarded as a kind of elevated performance of interpretation when it comes to national decisions. It's not about that. The starting point – and this is what the representative, Sørensen, must take on board – is that the whole road project was developed and developed without objection. There is therefore no reason for the matter to be sent to the Norwegian Ramsar authority, which is the Directorate for Nature Management. That's the explanation. Thus, there becomes an absurd and pointless question that the representative also asked the Council of State. That's the point I tried to make. Otherwise, there's some kind of rule technical thing going out here. I accept SV's assessment that it is a bad project, I accept SV's assessment that it is a poor solution. But I do not accept these kind wordings on a very unwise handling, a very unfortunate road package. There are value statements that suggest that I, who stand for a different vision than SV, must be stup stupid, whether it is permissible to say it that way. I don't think I am. Otherwise, I record that the Progress Party and the Socialist Left now have a new municipal practice: every road cause in a municipality should be dealt with in two local governments, independently of each other, i.e. If you first try one local government, you wait for a new choice to see if this is life-making, and then you make the decision. There will be proceedings in good spirit of progress. Propose road proposals, make sure it is never implemented!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1050	The President does not know whether ‘stup stupid’ is a parliamentary expression, but since it was used about the person who said it himself, the President lets it pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1053	What made me speak now was that the representative Holten and the representative Karin Andersen continue to claim, as they have done several times before, that the proposals of the Progress Party are not based in reality, because we do not have the money for it, and this leads to projects that the Tønsberg package is being pushed on time, and you will get a solution at a long time later. Now I'm going to show the representatives Holten and Andersen – so I'm asking them to follow them a little bit – something they've obviously never seen on the cover, and at least they've never read: this is the Progress Party's alternative state budget. It's true that when you quote from a government budget or a book, it can, of course, make the representative who does it seem serious and thorough, you have knowledge of what you're talking about. But if you're going to do that, you have to at least open what you're going to quote from. And they don't have these representatives, at least they've read it very badly – if they haven't chosen to rewrite the truth. In this document that I have shown you, there are extra appropriations for the road sector, as it has for many years, at NOK 5.3 billion per. years. From 1997 to 2003, we have allocated over 30 billion extra kroner to the road sector in terms of construction. If you go into the national transport plan, the ten-year allocation is over 50 billion SEK more than what the Government has submitted. Then to go up here and claim that we do not have the basis to make the proposals and to make reference to the fact that we have deposited the money is – with respect to reporting – hesitate. I recommend these two to go to our secretariat and deliver our alternative state budget, so that the next time they quote from it, at least they have opened the perma.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1062	The President shall avoid being embittered, but ‘doubt’ is not a parliamentary expression either.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1065	After the last two ointments, I will do my utmost to try to stay within parliamentary jargon. First to the bird reserve. I have to admit – and I also have a few of the major global environmental organisations with me in – that the way in which the Ramsar area was treated in connection with the Tønsberg package has raised questions that we need to follow further, to see if we have a good enough practice in protecting our wetlands in Norway. Wetland protection has not been at the top of the political agenda, and it may be time, for example. in the light of this case, to review whether we have a system that ensures that we are able to protect our wetlands, which we have assumed an international responsibility for managing. It is such that the County Environmental Protection Department has national responsibility, and then it is the Directorate for Nature Management that has international responsibility under the Ramsar Convention. But I promise that we will follow it further and get answers from the Ministry of the Environment, which is the top authority, from the Directorate of Nature Management, if you can find better ways than this to manage the areas that are of great protection. I notice, and have noticed as long as I've worked on environmental protection, that defending wetlands is one of the most difficult things we're doing. I have also been to the city many times and discussed environmental protection. At home at Levanger I remember that there was one who said, "I understand you're busy with these foxes," but the ant or the swamp in there, is it so dangerous with it then? The answer to that is yes, it is. That's where there's species wealth to take care of in Norway, and it's important to defend what doesn't seem immediately to be so terribly valuable. Then it's not right, as the representative Froy says, that we've been croaking a new status. On the other hand, we have tried to practice an old status, as our leader, Kristin Halvorsen, tries to inculcate us as often as possible. The first thing she said to our big group when we came was, remember, a politician is also equipped with two ears and one mouth. That is how we have tried to handle the matter with regard to the Tønsberg package. We've been listening.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1078	I hear what the Progress Party and Kenneth Svendsen say, but I disagree very much with those calculations. As I said in my post, the three projects I mentioned will come to approx. DKK 10 billion per year. year-on-year. What the Progress Party is right to contribute is extra 5 billion kroner in addition to what is in the State budget. That is why the Progress Party has a tailhang that they cannot explain. Then I want to comment on something that the representative Width said, there's no problem with the traffic disruption in Tønsberg, people don't want to go. Then I wonder: What is the view of Kenneth Svendsen and the Progress Party in this matter? The representative of Thore A. Nistad said on the previous examination of this case that the traffic situation in Tønsberg is characterised by accident. He went on to say: ‘Traffic volumes have increased year after year, without the necessary extension measures being taken on the road network. This has led to an ever worse situation with regard to road safety, the environment, the transport economy and accessibility.» So this was said almost a year ago. I am pleased that the majority in this Chamber is on the decision that was made less than a year ago. I'm glad that the local authorities at the time took that responsibility and would do something with the inhabitants to improve the environment, the promotion and safety of the Tønsberg area. It says that respect, and I want them to be happy with the work for a better path and a better environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1092	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1492]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1111	Norway is, as you know, a long-term country with widespread settlement and with many societal challenges. But we've made that clear. Over time, the post has been an important part of the country’s relationship. The post has been and should for the future be one of the nerve threads that allows people to live and work where they want, and at the same time get a service offer in line with the rest of the population. The country postal service has a role in many parts of the country that go far beyond being a provider of letters and parcels. The post means proximity to the big community and the exchange of newsprints and magazines, and the Post offers services in areas where it is far from the bank, the store or the newspaper. We have traditionally viewed the Post as an important piece in the country’s infrastructure – the services have been taken for granted. We have also had a common understanding that the type of basic services that the Post provides should be equal to everyone. It's not like that anymore. Now the Post is going to be a store, and the Government believes it should go with a profit of 10.8 p.m. The fact that important societal considerations are to be taken into account seems to be more or less irrelevant. It's worth noting the rotation of language in everything about the Post. The social responsibility that was once emphasised is almost gone. You no longer talk about the Post as an important nerve in society. Now the Post is to be a competitive service provider. All language use is based on economic performance and saving, socio-economic considerations disappear more and more from the vocabulary. The group director states that not everyone can have an equivalent postal service requirement and that social responsibility must give way to financial performance requirements. Is it really this development we want? Is it really the case that the Storting believes that we should not have equivalent postal services in the country? If we believe that there should be equivalent services, something has to be done, because now the Post is cleaning up services in District Norway. Today it's just 40 pst. of all A-mails sent to Finnmark during the night. This is a number that has been confirmed by the Post navigational system. In the concession of the Post, the requirement is 85 pst. of all A-mails to be received overnight. But this does not apply to all parts of the country. So when the Post Seam says they're well satisfied with their own compliance with the concession requirements, this figure applies to the total number for the whole country. The fact that parts of the country are far below what should be the target is not worrying. After Posten’s own assessment, the amount of mail to Finnmark is so small that it cannot be taken into account that all of this item will arrive overnight. In other words, an equivalent offer to all parts of the country is not possible following the Post Office’s assessment. Both the Ministry of Transport and the Post are well pleased with the change that has been made in recent years. Following the presentation of the results for the third quarter of 2003, the group leader, Kaare Frydenberg, stated that the migration process is working. So the result was plus 60 million. kr before tax. For the same period last year, the figure was minus 39 million. kr before tax. Turnover growth in the third quarter was 4.1 pst, and the volume of letters and packages is growing. On the other hand, it is not certain that all those who lose their jobs, or those who get a worse postal service, agree that this type of efficiency is something you should be satisfied with. Regional business depends on good infrastructure in order to be competitive in the meeting with businesses in central districts. The extensive changes in the Post Office, with the closure of 20 letter terminals and eight parcel terminals, also lead to the loss of the district industry. The Alta industry thinks they can lose up to 20 million. kr annually on lower postal offers, as a result of conversions. As a basis for this figure, one assumes that approximately 100,000 business packages are sent annually to and from Alta. To get these delivered at the same time as today, one in the tariff group needs an express package, and will then have increased postage costs of up to 20 million. kr. In other words, the extensive changes lead to poorer offers for ordinary people, but also for business. The centre batch, together with several others, has raised questions related to the increase in postage on newspapers and magazines. This is a very important matter to ensure a living local democracy, and it makes clear how the Post has changed in relation to its social responsibility. For many villages, and cities for that part, locality is a central arena, where opinions are broken, and where news is exchanged. It is in the local way that you can read about what is going on in the community and about the debates that are going on in the countryside. Many believe that the major newspapers in Akersgata are the meaningful channels for the entire population of Norway, but this is not the case at all. The local newspapers are very important. In the past, the Post has taken into account content in the definition of postage for newspapers and magazines. This has been part of the social responsibility carried out by the Posten, and in this way Norway has been able to maintain a wide range of meaningful newspapers and magazines. After ignoring the content criterion in determining leaf postage, this could end with an increase of up to 75 pst. over a period of a few years. For many local authorities, this will be an economic cost that you cannot live with, and the risk of closure is very great. Through several questions to both the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Transport, the Central Party has tried to find out the reasons behind the Government’s decision to remove all cultural policy considerations relating to the definition of avisporto. The Minister for Transport replied in this context, inter alia: that the transitional period for increased postage should be extended until 1 January 2006. In other words, you have to spend time before the papers have to be put down, but the final consequences will still be the same. This seems to me more like zig-tiping than as a solution. Throughout the fall, both the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Transport have played ball between them when questions about the avisporto have been raised, without anything happening. Governments have observed that the Post claims the current postage determination scheme is a cross-subsidy that is not legal, but has not provided any solutions for those affected. A model where government grants to avisporto, similar to that in Denmark, have not been assessed. The centre party is not willing to sacrifice the local views. We will actively go in to find a solution to this, so that Norway will continue to have a flood of meaningful newspapers. There has been something safe and stable with the Post, as a social actor and also as a job for many. Conversion and restructuring of the Post Office includes, inter alia: led to the disappearance of many jobs. Over the period 1999–2002, the entry reduced manning by a total of 3 500. In the coming period, it will be planned to reduce the minimum of 2 800 new annual works by 2005. Many of these jobs are in areas where the opportunities to find alternative jobs are low, and thus are particularly hard hit by a tight labour market. It is also worrying when, in a comment to the Nations on 31 October of this year, the Group Director of the Post stated that this is ‘working-day rationalisation’. I doubt that it is experienced in the same way for all those who are hit by the cuts. The post office has a concession to operate after. By setting concession requirements, the Ministry may participate in and stop a development in which the Post no longer has a social role but is governed only by market requirements. The Central Party challenges the Minister of Transport to respond to the demands for postal services and to what role the Post should play in the Norwegian society in time to come. Should we have equivalent postal services across the country? Should the Post continue to be responsible for ensuring the newspaper diversity? Or is the Post supposed to be a pure store, regardless of the words we traditionally associated with the Post, such as social responsibility, equal offer and distribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1151	I would like to point out at the outset that, in the last few years overall, the Post has improved the quality and quality of universal service: 99.95 pst. Of all households in this country, the highest figure is ever delivered six days a week. The number of non-performing households is reduced from 1500 to about 1000 in four years. The overall availability of postal services has been improved by the extension of opening hours and the number of postal sites, including Post in Store, has increased from about 1 300 in 2000 to about 1500 in 2003. A recent customer survey shows that customers are increasingly satisfied with the new sales network. This applies in particular to Post in Store. The proportion of priority mail arrived at the following day has increased on a national basis, from 78,3 p.p. in 1999 to 86,7 p.m. in 2002, and is now well above the concession’s 85 pst requirement. This positive trend has continued in 2003. This year, on average, the transmission quality has been 87,7 p.m. Some 93 000 households have moved the mailbox closer to their home after 2001. If the representative Haga believes this is a weathering of the infrastructure, I disagree. This is contrary to a quality improvement, and this quality improvement has taken place at the same time as the company has been able to make significant changes in order to secure the economy of the company. This is very positive and absolutely necessary in order for the Post to be able to provide good postal services, including in the long term, at a reasonable price throughout the country. However, it is not possible to exclude that conversions are difficult and painful processes. Many of the Post staff have been and will be affected in the coming years. A significant background to this is that the postal market is characterised by structural changes, tightening customer demand and falling demand for traditional mail. This poses major challenges for the Post. There has been broad political agreement that conversion is necessary and that the company has great freedom to develop its services and organisation itself as long as the tasks and service requirements imposed on society are met. Without the Post Office's adjustments, the company would have been in a significantly worse economic position than is the case today. The State pays the Post approximately 300 million. kr per year, mainly to ensure that users across the country are provided with equivalent services. The need for State funding would be much greater if the Post had not been given the freedom to adapt operations to the development of the postal market. Only in the last two years has Posten's conversion in isolation helped to reduce the company's costs by a couple of billion dollars. Despite this, the Post is struggling as is well-known to ensure profitable operation. This illustrates the conditions under which the company operates. Failure to adapt to changes in society would, in my opinion, have benefited neither the quality of services nor the long-term good rural policy. Having said this, I would like to stress that I see it as a prerequisite that the concession's requirements for service and quality should be met, regardless of the reorganisations that are being carried out. I see it as very central that the transitions contribute to ensuring good quality in the postal services, including in the districts. With that background, I am concerned about developments in Finnmark, based on the information that has now come up on low transmission quality. The Postal and Telecommunications Authority, which supervises compliance with the requirements of the concession, has now asked the Post Office to provide further information on the quality of Posten’s services in Finnmark. In this respect, I have instructed the Post Office to meet the requirements of the Postal and Telecommunications Authority to provide information related to the delivery times for priority mail to and within Finnmark. The matter is now under assessment in the Post and Telecommunications Authority. When further analysis from supervision is available, I will consider how to follow-up the case so that the transmission time in Finnmark can be improved. The item shall comply with the concession requirement for equivalent offers throughout the country. As regards the development of the newspaper and leaf portfolio, I would like to point out that the concession no longer allows editorial content to be used as a criterion in determining postage for newspapers and magazines, so that the postage becomes lower than for comparable shipments. This is the background for the Post and Telecommunications Authority asking the Post to change the terms of pricing for newspapers and magazines. It is provided by the Department and the Postal and Telecommunications Authority that the price increase is to be phased in in order to enable the groups concerned to adapt to the new pricing system. I have been informed that the postage increase in 2004 will be on average 17 pst. for the locals. This will, it is estimated, lead to a cost increase of around NOK 20 000 for newspapers with a relatively small circulation of around DKK 400000 for large local viewers. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that the authorities mainly control quality and transmission requirements through regulatory instruments. The Post Office is responsible for the organisation of the company’s activities and for assessing the measures necessary to ensure the company’s competitiveness and economy. As owner, I am concerned that the Post is running cost-effectively, while ensuring the services imposed on society. This governance model has been used in the recently submitted Storing Communication on the Posten – St.meld. No 11 for 2003-2004 – a governance model that both contributes to ensuring good quality of postal services and the good development of the Company’s Post.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1191	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We know the numbers that are referred to in relation to the country as a whole, but what this is all about is that it's part of the country that loses. What we in the Center Party can't understand is that conversions are to be done in such a way that it always becomes the districts that lose. The post has clearly stated that what they're dealing with is a claim for a financial return of well and well 10 pst. For this reason, the objective of the Post is to be able to make profits and money on the services provided. If one starts from the big cities and in the central part of the country, it could be possible to operate the store in such a way that it becomes profitable. But it will never be profitable to deliver mail and other services to every place in the country and with the same offer to everyone. The changes made before the Post in recent years and those notified in the coming period are unlikely to have a significant impact on urban dwellers. It can even get better, as the Council of State says. It will not be worse, and it may even be better, in the Central East. What is worth noting is that those who live in areas of the country that do not have the opportunity to benefit from the market approach to which it is added to the Post will lose. The Central Party believes that the Post is an important piece in the infrastructure that is needed for Norway to maintain the society that we know and that many of us are so happy about, as we have spread settlements and attractive communities around the country. I also have to remember that centralization means losing at both ends. You lose where people move, and you lose where people move. I am pleased to note that the Council of State is now expressing concern about what is happening in Finnmark. My question to the Council of State will be: does that mean that she will also change the objectives so that they are broken down in the counties, and can we be sure that we have an overview of what is at any time the situation of the ability to deliver in the various counties? As far as the locals are concerned, I have to say that I am very surprised that a councillor from the Left at all does not worry that the government she is currently sitting in can be involved in and lay the basis for ‘killing’ a lot of locals and no. 2 newspapers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1204	First, I would like to say that I am very questioning about what was said that the districts are the ones that always lose. I would say that the conversion that the Post has been through now has been of the utmost benefit to the districts here in the country. Then I must also say that I am worried when I hear that the quality of the transmission in Finnmark is so much lower than the average in the country. It gives cause for concern if these numbers are very small. The challenge is to find a solution that allows us to get even higher quality in Finnmark, without lowering the quality of other places. Now the situation is that it's the post that's going to Finnmark, which is the challenge of being sent forward quickly. The success of moving it forward quickly, without changing the quality of those who are going to send, or in other ways, is clearly a major challenge for the Post. I don't really want to change the goal of states. I want us to have as good a quality as possible for the forwarding and the service in the Post as possible, without one thus dividing the country into regions in this way. I also know that there are actually posts here in the area that have problems with quality and transmission during the night, but it's a very small part. Overall, on a country-by-country basis, this applies to a very small proportion of the item. I am concerned that we should not have such a division of regions in Norway, so that it can be said that some regions have clearly better quality than others. If we want to do that, we need to figure out how to do it better. As far as newspapers and magazines are concerned, it is clear that the Left Party is very concerned about free speech in our country, and that we are thus able to contribute to a media diversity. It's based on the numbers we have, not something that suggests that it's about -- to use an expression that was used here -- 'drap' by newspapers. I am concerned that the Post Office should be able to facilitate as low a tariff as possible in this area as well. It is such that the concession was changed before this government took over the precisely range of differentiation by content. It's not something we've done in our time, but it's something that's come before our time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1216	I think the representative Åslaug Haga addresses a very important issue in his interplay here today. I can say that I am fully committed to some of the concerns about the situation in the Post Office. The post is an incredibly important thing in our long-range country. We in the Workers' Party are concerned about the situation surrounding the conversion process in the Post. At the latest in the budgetary procedure, we announced that we would return to this demanding process in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 11, on the activity in Posten Norge AS. In addition, in line with the interpellant, we are concerned about the conditions of the locals after the tariff increase in the Post. We already hear stories that suggest that if nothing is done, newspaper deaths in the districts can end. It is important that we are able to maintain the diversity of local viewers and magazines we have today. Norway has one of Europe's most newsreading people. We should continue to have that objective, and therefore it is important that access is simple and that diversity is maintained. For this reason, we have also asked the Ministry of Transport, in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, to seek solutions to prevent a possible newspaper death in the course of the year's budgetary procedure. Whether this is done through public procurement or through compensation in the press support, it is important to find a solution that does not weaken the Post Office. I remember also pointing to the danger during the 2003 budget review that the Post is approaching a pain limit for what is financially sound. This turns out to be in several things. Prevention and implementation of measures across the group are important in order to reduce sick leave and the number of disadvantaged people in the future. I have to say that there has been an explosion in the conversion process. Here we also have an important job to do in the future. The work to be done in connection with St.meld. No So 11 is going to be very important. The working party is still very much afraid that the Post as a company is approaching, as I have said before, the pain limit for what is economically sound. I also believe that many in this Chamber agree. Then it is also important that we find good solutions for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1231	The approach angle that today's interpellant has to face the major challenges that the Post is facing makes the thoughts go back ten years in time. At the time, there was a loud discussion about the number of post offices, where the Senter Party turned itself into spokespersons to preserve the existing structure, costing what it would cost. In the discussion, the then president of the Centre Party, Anne Enger Lahnstein, promoted one of the most curious political theories of the time; that the main dividing line in Norwegian policy was between those who would adapt the post office structure to the new reality; and the desire of the Senter Party to call about the solutions of the past. Fortunately, the centre party was standing quite alone with its romanticization of the structures of the past. The post office has since implemented a major structural change in its sales network. A large number of self-propelled post offices have been closed down and replaced by Post in Storek. This conversion has been well received by the audience. Shop posts have improved the availability of postal services through extended opening hours, and over the last three years the number of points of dispatch has increased by 250. The percentage of A mail carried forward has improved. I dare to venture the claim that the Kingdom, including the districts, has never had as good a postal service as it is today. It is the Right's goal that we should also have it in the future, but it requires that we do not do as the Center Party does and close our eyes to the challenges of the future. Fortunately, the government and management of the post do not close their eyes to the major challenges facing the Posten. Falling letter volumes, tough competition from new electronic products, loss of exclusive rights and major structural changes internationally require a continuous changeover to enable the Post to continue to offer a good postal service to households and businesses throughout the country. Right-wing wishes the Post's board of directors and employees to be happy with the demanding and necessary conversion that the company has to undergo continuously.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1248	The Storting will deal with its own big message about the Post Norway AS, probably in January, and in this context I look forward to a broad debate on the Post. But some chords from SV here are: Equivalent postal services across the country are an important and crucial prerequisite for maintaining residence and business in District Norway. In it is that we must have a nationwide postal network, mail offices, mail services in stores and good country mail delivery services. Increased liberalisation of postal services could, in the SV's view, threaten the postal service, especially in District Norway. The context here is that when the Post reduces its exclusive jurisdiction, when the Post loses its revenues from the parts of the country where they have large revenues, and remains in the postal services of the parts of the country where they have small revenues, the ability and ability of the Post to provide equivalent postal services throughout the country is impaired, because they have to build up their organisation, and they are weakened as such. We see the result of that, among other things. in Finland, where quality has been reduced. Finnmark County has documented this at yesterday's hearing, and we will not be able to accept such a reduction in quality. In St.meld. No 11, which we now have to deal with in the Committee, the Council of State says that the liberalisation of postal services should not weaken the service provision but, on the contrary, contribute to the improvement of postal services throughout the country. I disagree with that, and I would challenge the Council of State precisely on this: how can increased liberalisation help improve the quality of postal services, for example. in Finnmark, in Lofoten and in the island communities and in the West? How can the Council of State prove this context? As I said, we are very critical of liberalisation and believe that the quality of the postal services in the districts is deteriorating. We will come back to this with concrete proposals in the debate on St.meld. No 11th@item: In the case of increased local postage, we in SV promoted a proposal in connection with the State budget. The proposal, which was also supported by the Central Party, was that the Council of State should order the Post not to increase the postage to the local authorities until the Stortinget had dealt with St.meld. No 11th@item: Unfortunately, that proposal was not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1270	The Christian People's Party, like the representative Åslaug Haga and the Central Party, is very concerned that the Post should have a social responsibility beyond what is common to most businesses, and it is of great importance that the Post's service provision is of high quality in all parts of the country. I did not realize that the Senterpartiet is opposed to conversion in the Post, but they want to slow down, as I experience it. But the problem is that while the Center Party is slowing down, there is a great danger that the Post will lose market shares, and then one will achieve the opposite of it an originally wanted one. The conversion can be painful, and it has been the case for the Post. Many Post employees have been affected, and unfortunately more will be affected in the coming years. But these changes have been important to ensure the necessary modernisation of the Post Office. I noticed in particular that the post office staff's organisation in the hearing yesterday supported the conversion in the post office, but made clear demands on the responsibility we have for purchasing services. At the same time, they indicated that the Post must have a real opportunity to compete in the coming free market. We cannot close our eyes because we are facing full liberalisation of the postal market in Europe, and this must allow the Post to prepare to compete in. We're buying services today from the Item for $300 million. kr. Here we have a real responsibility as big business representatives to make sure that we buy services, so that we can get an equivalent offer across the country. It might look like it's said here that everything was better before. I am pleased that the minister points out that there has been a development by means of conversion in the Post which makes the situation today actually better than it has been for a long time. But also in the Christian People's Party, we are deeply concerned about the development that has taken place in Finnmark, and I am pleased that the minister has taken up that matter and wants to do something about it. Finally, a short summary of the local viewer portfolio. We also regard it as very worrying. But we will stress that, above all, newspaper production is a cultural matter, and for the Christian People's Party, it is important to facilitate compensation for this above the Ministry of Culture's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1285	If a modern society is to function, there must be important service provision at the bottom. Yes, some services are so important that it should be a social responsibility that all citizens get involved in these services. The entry is just an example of service provision in which everyone should be included. There have been a large number in Stortinget that have meant that postal services should be a social responsibility. It has also been clear that there should be an equivalent offer across the country, both in terms of access to services and price. The post has been an important part of the infrastructure and the basis for business and construction in all parts of the country. With equivalent supply across the country, the Post has been an important factor in keeping distance costs down. For business, there have been many times the equivalent postal services that have been determined whether businesses would be located in the districts or moved to more central districts. And for the individual citizen, the Post has also been an important link to the outside world. The local newspapers and other meaningful newspapers delivered through the Post have been important cultural agents. The Council of State stressed in its statement that there are positive features in the developments that have occurred in the Post, and we are not dissenting about that. There has been a longer opening time for many people by moving mail into the store, but we also know that there are negative aspects to that arrangement. But let's now keep the positive here. Postage, which has a clear objective that a certain part should be there the next day, we've also managed to achieve. When the Right used a large part of its post to talk about the Center Party, I would have liked that the Right also read a little more about what has happened through the treatment of various postal items in the Stortinget. The centre party has not been negative to all changes and developments, but the centre party is aware that the equivalent supply is to be preserved at any time. It is good to say that the second government party who has spoken from the committee here has discovered a little bit more of what is the actual situation. I'm referring to the positive features that have been in development, but it's important to note that these are mean numbers. If we go behind numbers, we find that there are different outcomes for different parts of the country, and not all of them get the same service as before. That's what it's important to focus on here. There is no doubt that there has been a strong signal from the sitting government and the Posten's leadership about further efficiency and greater emphasis on business operations. I'd like to ask the Council of State to come up with an assessment of what's most important. Is there any business operation and efficiency improvement, or will the State Council still place great emphasis on the social responsibility of the Posten?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1301	After hearing the interpellant's posts, I honestly wonder what is the purpose of the entire interpellation, other than to present a lot of strong adjectives and claims in the spirit of purest rule technique. I do not hear that this is a single proposal for a solution. This is where strong adjectives and claims are spread like the government abandoning all cultural policy considerations. Important social services appear to be irrelevant, claims the interpellant. Further on, District Norway will always be the losers. And: Social responsibility is totally absent. You really go quite far in describing a reality that I don't think people living in rural areas in District Norway are at all familiar with. When I take this into account, it is not too surprising the fact that there are major challenges in communication and transport ahead of us. But we don't solve these challenges by reversing time. We need to focus on relationships that are based on the fact that things are actually happening within these services that are positive to include. Among other things, we see that the local stores are given increased responsibility for distribution. You get new services. It is thus created a room to keep the nearby shops also around. They are given responsibility for distribution and other postal services, for drug sales, etc., which contribute to strengthening and increasing the settlement in District Norway. In fact, it is not the Post around that is responsible for the newspaper distribution. In fact, liberalisation does not lead to decline and stagnation, price rise, etc. That's actually the exact opposite that's the case. Therefore, this is not a contribution to strengthening the communication offer, the service offer for District Norway. There is nothing but a contribution to giving the Post Norway a terrible bad marketing. I think one should stay too good to present a picture that everything is just misery, that one sticks the misery vignette around District Norway. Because in many, many areas, the Post has a good offer, and they do a good job. But in some areas, actual technology and development have brought – fortunately – the nation in a different direction, up and down, which has led to things being solved and solved by other and new methods than what has been contributed today. This has been no more than a negative contribution to District Norway and a terrible bad advertisement for the Post Norway, for which the Post should have been saved in these very strenuous Christmas seasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1312	I'll try to avoid too many adjectives in the language when I'm now going to keep this post. Seven years ago, I visited Pompeii at the foot of the volcano Vesuvius. The guide then explained the conditions that had existed there immediately before the volcanic eruption that left the whole city in ruins of ash and pumice stone. Then he told me that at that time it had been less than a day with messengers on horseback to get the mail from Pompeii and up to Rome. Then he added in a statement: today it takes approx. and a week. There is a bit of the situation on this open, competitive market that we now also experience in Norway, namely that the central issue is no longer the entry. The central thing is that those who are going to run the post — and that is no longer going to be the public — are going to do so on the basis of making money. And if your earnings are not there, you have to change your service offer in such a way that you get income. I guess there's a distinction in this room, you could be honest enough to say that. It is good that the Workers' Party, which in its time was one of the main exponents to bring about this kind of change, is now beginning to describe unrest, as we heard from one of the representatives. But as long as that turmoil doesn't give itself any other kind of rash than that you're worried about, it's for very little help. That unrest should, for example, be. In this case, it appears that the press support was compensated for in order to prevent the closure of the newspapers which it is considered are important to be there. Similarly, one should engage when coverage is so poor that some districts do not receive the post until many days afterwards, in relation to reversing some of the processes that have taken place under the heading of the Post and that have led to such a condition. Anxiety itself will not solve any problems if it does not lead to anything constructive. Then I understand – that’s what I understand best here – Ivar Kristiansen’ enormous indignation. Because it's clear that when you see the consequences of your own policy, like you do with the Post here, you get indignant at those points, because you suddenly have to see yourself in the mirror. It's often unpleasant. But instead of raising oneself above others and using other people's adjectives, you might admit that some of the processes have gone too far. You should try to find other solutions to them, so that you can serve the people you're knowingly chosen to serve. I think it is commendable that Åslaug Haga takes up this interpellation. This affects most of my own home country. And, of course, it is important – if we are to have a settlement in Finnmark, in North Norway, in Norwegian districts – that what has to be a service to keep the settlement there is serving the population and not primarily the owners, who have stronger and stronger interests in earnings, and not in how the population is doing it, and how the post is coming out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1331	Thank you for the debate. The representative Ballo now gave a good summary of what has been the substance of the debate. I record that we have alliance partners in relation to following up further, as we have been told. I find that the Right as usual believes that the Center Party is closing its eyes for the future when we point out that there can actually be some distortion through Right Policy and pure market alignment. But we're used to hearing that. And you delete time, the right makes it jamm easy for itself. When the Central Party will follow up in Stortinget, we will do so in connection with the mail message, for which we are also so lucky to have the case rapporteur. We will consider whether to present Document No 8 proposals. What we're concerned about is that the concession terms have to be tightened up on some points. It has to be that we have an overview of the postal services we have in the different parts of the country, that they are comparable and that the offer is equivalent. It was supposed to be missing that we should not have an overview of it. And we definitely need special arrangements for newspapers and magazines. So it's going to be like this, that if we tighten up the concession terms, we'll probably have to renovate a little bit on the return requirements. But why do we have to charge 10.8 pst worldwide? in return for services that are so obvious to be at the bottom of our society? Then I must finally get into the papers, again. I hear that the Minister for Transport believes that the Post should have no cultural policy responsibility. Eelreit, da, eelreit! But then I had actually expected the Minister of Transport to have brought with him a little greeting from the Minister of Culture, who had actually been concerned with the cultural policy aspects of this. But there has not been a single signal from the government team about it. I sincerely hope that there will be new signals and that the people of the Christian People's Party here in the Chamber can contribute to this. But I haven't heard a positive signal from the Government when it comes to setting up schemes to ensure that the local authorities are not subjected to any further pressure, and with the consequence that there will be major reductions. Then to Finnmark. It is good that the Council of State will look at the situation in Finnmark. But I have not heard that the Council of State has said anything about what she intends to do in relation to Finnmark. I would be very happy to get some signals about that at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1348	To the question of what is most important, efficiency and efficiency on the one hand or social responsibility on the other: for me, both parts are absolutely essential. We have a postal system that works very well through the Post Norway AS, which is very important to the whole country, no matter where you live. We don't have anyone who can do the job the way the Post does today, with the code we have. It is important that the Post is an effective organisation, that they can operate effectively. It means lower prices for those who are going to use the Post, whether it's in Finnmark, in Eastfold, in Oslo or wherever it is. If the Post is not spared for the future, we have made a very stupid choice for ourselves. We need an organisation that is able to meet the challenges ahead. Letter volumes are falling dramatically. That means that the Post challenges are completely different from what they have been. There are other ways we're communicating now than before. The post must meet these challenges where they are. If we don't allow the Post to meet these challenges by organizing its work in a sensible way, it's an unusually poor district policy. I think we have to bring all the way with us that both are important. The concession that we give the Post, and the purchase of services, is the best way we can make sure that the Post comes out no matter where you live in the country, to say it in good Norwegian. It is the concession and purchase of services that provide guidance on how we can contribute to the whole country, including those places that are so-called business-economically unprofitable – there are also those places that are so-called business-economically unprofitable – to provide services. But we want people to live around the country. That's why we gave the concession that we've given, and that's why we go in and buy services. It's also going to be this government's policy in the future, that we're going to buy services. It is not just a return claim for the Post Office. The return requirements relate to learning to drive efficiently. And they're on the right track in this whole process. I also record that the employees are involved in the process. They see that there are challenges that lie here, and that they have to grips with them if they're to succeed with the Post in the future, whether it's the big city, or it's the districts. So the concession and what's in it is going to be important in the future. There are several people who have pointed out that the postal message is being discussed in the committee, and that gives us a good opportunity to discuss the Post and the Post's future further over the New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1363	The debate on substance is closed. So 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1376	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who draw on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This will be regarded as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1385	Following a comprehensive strategy process, the Norwegian Hydro Board of Directors decided on 19 June this year to initiate preparations for separating the company’s fertiliser activities into a separate company, with a view to listing on Oslo Børs. Today, when Stortinget takes its decision and authorises the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade to vote at the Norwegian Hydro General Assembly for the proposal to separate Agri, this also means that the company is ready for listing on 25 March next year. Furthermore, the Stortinget today decides that the State’s holding in Agri should be at least 33,4 p.m. The separation of Agri from Norsk Hydro means that 80 pst. by the shares in Agri are allocated to Hydro's shareholders so that one Hydro share gives the right to receive one Agri share. 20 pst. the shares are sold on the market by Hydro. Norsk Hydro does not add up to be a long-term owner in Agri. Agri will be among the largest companies in the stock exchange. Hydro's agricultural division traded last year for approx. 33 billion kroner and is one of the world's leading and largest suppliers of mineral fertilisers. Hydro’s agricultural division has been through a significant transformation, improvement and renewal in recent years, which has made the company find this time ideal for the new launch and deflation. Agri will have approx. 7 000 employees, including approx. 1 100 in Norway, and will be present in more than 50 countries. The business, with its head office, will be managed from Norway. The company is expected to be worth between DKK 25 billion and NOK 30 billion. It has been suggested that Agri be set up in such a way that a liquid and efficient market is rapidly and efficiently created to ensure the best possible pricing and stabilisation of the new company. So it's added to that 20 pst. the shares in Agri are sold in the open market. In the context of the separation, it is proposed that the Board of Directors of Agri should be authorised to issue up to 15 million shares in the company during a two-year period in order to strengthen the company's growth potential. The State’s ownership interest in Norsk Hydro is not affected by this transaction and remains unchanged at 43,8 p.m. However, the form of the transaction will affect the ownership of the State in Agri. The state will get its share of the 80 pst. of the shares being distributed. After this, the country's share will be about 36 pst. If that issue is carried out, the country's ownership interest will fall to about 2 years in the course of the two-year period. 34.5 pst. This means that the State will continue to have a holding that will be sufficient to ensure a decisive influence on fundamental conditions requiring amendments to the company’s statutes. The separation of Agri has unison digestion in the Storting. This means that in all areas, the Storting shares the Hydro Steering Board’s deflation strategy. This strengthens, in the Committee's view, both Norsk Hydro and Agri. This means that the two future companies will have a greater focus on their core areas. I also believe for my own part that the so-called conglomerates, which is now claimed to be at the price of Norsk Hydro's shares, will be reduced, so that the value of Norsk Hydro will also increase as a result of this. Now the history of this matter has been a bit funny. It's the management of Norsk Hydro, the board of directors, who has set the stage for the fiance. Unfortunately, this case has created a number of uncertainties and frustrations in the sequences, and not least the opposition parties, the Labour Party and the Progress Party, which are increasingly moving in line with these issues of state ownership, have now given cause for concern both to those behind the business idea and to the owners. The premises looked to the seventh and last to be laid off until the very last round. I am therefore pleased that the two Roman Numeral proposals promoted by the Government today have a majority. But there is also reason to remind you that when you go very high on the track and present the matter as if this is an invention from the Minister of Industry, it is turning the whole matter upside down. This is not something that was invented by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. And when it's also created the impression that the Council of State Gabrielsen put up a dangerous chance island, to mention what one of the nutritionists in those two parties has said, this is not – to repeat it – a sailor invented by Gabrielsen. There has been reason to fear that the State would take decisions that were not in accordance with the interests of the other shareholders. Not only could this result in a significant reduction in the value of the State’s interests in listed companies in such a situation, but also a general negative impact on the investment activity of the Norwegian share market. This case fully indicates that the parties who speak the hottest in order for the State to increase its economic ownership, at the same time, provide the best arguments as to why the country's ownership in business should be reduced. Today's decision is positive for Norsk Hydro. It's very positive for Agri. It is positive for the jobs in Norway and, not least, positive for the owners. That's why I think the result is that we get, as an additional effect, a new, strong, Norwegian exchange locomotive. I think everyone in this room has reason to rejoice over a day like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1415	I'm going to be relatively short. As the setting shows, the Workers' Party will not oppose the separation of Agri from Norsk Hydro as its own listed company, but I will admit that we have had difficulties with the proposal that the state should own down to 33.4 pst. of the shares in Agri following the separation and listing. We wanted the state to avoid getting into a minimum position in such a large and strategically important company. The background to our position is to read in the setting of the ownership message that Stortinget dealt with in spring 2002, where we said the following: ‘By owning only 1/3 of the axes in a company, the State will easily come into a state of stress if the other owners gather. An example of such a situation can be a fine on the entire company. If the country only has the minimum required for negative control, one will also be prevented from using the axes to trade. These members think that one in this type of company should have a buffer. This should be at least 10 pst. This means that the state should have no less than 44 pst. in strategically important companies. These members are generally sceptical of new powers of sale, but will open up to reduced state ownership that follows mergers and acquisitions.» Despite these remarks and despite our scepticism that the state is now in a minimum position, as I said, we will not oppose separation, so that we do not destroy the process of Hydro. Instead, we have chosen to put forward a proposal that the State should increase its holdings in the long term to approx. 44 pst. We also believe that if issues are carried out in Agri, the State should use its right of pre-emption to subscribe as much as possible. This is our justification for the proposal that we have tabled, and with this I address the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1438	The representative Fossli then mentioned the proposal she had referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1441	Over the 11⁄2 years that have elapsed since the treatment of the ownership notification in Stortinget, several cases have been sent to Stortinget and have resulted in a lower state holding in some enterprises. Although there is no usual procedure in this case, the proposal for the separation of Agri from Hydro according to the selected model will involve a transaction that gives a lower state holding in Agri than in Hydro. The Economic and Social Committee has long been concerned about a comprehensive plan to strengthen private ownership in Norway. The Committee has also seen the need to professionalise the country’s own ownership. In the examination of the 2002 Communication of Ownership, the majority of the population, all except the government parties, expressed that prior to the possible sale of State enterprises, a plan for strengthening private ownership was needed by the Government, on the one hand through framework conditions and, on the other, through cooperation solutions between the State and private sector. Only in very special cases could it be relevant to deal with sales issues before the government had submitted these plans. The majority's comments and proposals were repeated on the one hand and reinforced on the other hand in January of the current year. In dealing with ownership issues relating to Raufoss ASA, NOAH Holding AS and Moxy Trucks AS, there was an overall committee which, in the form of proposals, asked the Government to submit a case to the Stortinget for a better management of state ownership and a plan to strengthen private ownership. The lack of a national nutrition and ownership strategy has already contributed to a significant branching of Norwegian business, as the Progress Party sees it. Ownership of important industry disappears out of the country. Only the last year has, for example, two of the three largest shipping communities came on foreign hands, and a few weeks ago the company Jøtul, in my own county, was sold to an American investment company. If we look at Oslo Stock Exchange, it's just about. 5 pst. by the ownership of Norwegian private owners. It is also appropriate to recall that in the last 20 years, some new companies of international format have been created in this country. Of course, there is nothing wrong with foreign owners in Norway. They enrich Norwegian industrial environments and create good competitors. The problem is that a strong impact side has developed, because there are not enough strong capital environments at home that are willing to contribute to a reasonable balance. We therefore feel a deep concern about the decline of private ownership in Norway and the lack of innovation and innovation in business. Sales in state-owned enterprises in the current situation alone will not help to strengthen private ownership. It is therefore necessary to pursue policies that prioritise concrete actions, which strengthen private ownership, ensure that head offices and knowledge functions in key enterprises remain in Norway and strengthen innovation capacity in Norwegian business. A reduction in taxes on wealth and models of how to use the country's capital strength to ensure national ownership of strategically important companies will be key elements in this. Therefore, a matter of ownership policy has been delayed. We cannot continue to have it as today, as important values disappear from the hands of Norwegian owners without real competition from Norwegian capital sources. In the case of state ownership related to sales, the values disappear out of the planlessly to the oil fund, with no particular ring-effects to the Norwegian business community. This has to change, and it's urgent. Of course, this reasoning does not conflict with the fact that appropriate adjustments, such as in this case, can be made in some establishments, with the separation and listing of Agri from Norsk Hydro. The case has been raised on the initiative of the management and board of directors of the company, and it has completed its work before the selection that investigates and assesses the country's ownership policy. In such a situation, the State which owns it must act primarily as a shareholder in the company, without its ownership policy having particular influence in the present case. In this context, the Progress Party will support the proposal promoted by Hydro's management, board of directors and employees' representatives. With regard to the issue of the size of the country's future ownership of Agri, either through the purchase of shares or through participation in a possible issue, this issue should be considered in relation to the case to be brought before the Stortinge based on an investigation by the Stats Committee or in an issue situation. It is therefore important that this issue is addressed to the Treatment Storting if an issue takes place before the basis of the Government, in the form of a proposition or notification, has been finalised by the Stortinget. I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1460	The representative of Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1463	SV is a party that wants strong state ownership in a part of our commercial locomotive, such as Statoil, Hydro and Telenor – to name the very top. We actually believe that state ownership is important for at least two reasons. First, it's important because it gives the state income. These companies make good money. That's why it's important to own them. Secondly, a number of strategic choices are under control, including: in relation to activities and the road choices made. We also do not believe that the state is a bad owner. The state is in many ways a very good owner. An example of this is the Managing Director of the Cross Seas in Kongsberg Group said when we had a hearing on the ownership announcement. He said that it had not been for state ownership, he had not known how it had gone with the Kongsberg Group in the demanding process that they have been through and that has led to them being a success company today. Therefore, I believe that state ownership is important, especially in the areas that I mentioned earlier in my article. With us, there was some doubt about what we were going to do with the proposal to separate the agrarian part of a separate company. Artificial fertilizer, which has been used for many years, was the very beginning of Hydro's history. Many of us are not sure if it's right that you have to go down in Hydro from three solid legs to two solid legs. We know that there's also a little bit of a wave in terms of what's strategically right. But when the board has asked permission to separate the agrarian part from the rest of Hydro, we have landed on that we support it. We expect that work has been done so thoroughly that it is thought that it is best for the company and the best for the jobs that the company should contribute to. On the other hand, SV cannot support the fact that we are going to go down from today's ownership of approx. 44 pst. to 34 pst. It is justified that we do not want to weaken state ownership. We realize that if you have 34 psts, you have the exact same influence as if you had 44 psts. But it's also about that we want to have the highest possible state ownership in these important locomotives, which Hydro is one of them. I want to address the proposal that SV and the Central Party have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1476	The representative of Inge Ryan has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1479	It is an impressive company we have up to debate here today – Norsk Hydro, an industrial venture of approx. 100 years. Now, when the company, after an overall assessment, wants to separate an important part of the enterprise, the Christian People's Party feels that it is right to accept such a specialization. The company is so large that there are many reasons why one can achieve the best result by specializing in the company. The Christian People's Party also believes that this will strengthen both companies. There was some tension about whether the Hydro name should be tied to the new company, and we note that it will not. But we have a hope that the grip of Agri can be a correspondingly strong revolution that Hydro has been doing for 100 years now. We have good faith that the company should find a solid place, both at market and at Oslo Børs. I would like to stress the importance of the fact that the new company, Agri, has a product that can compete on the Norwegian market. For periods it has not been the case, and we have experienced foreign competition coming in and taking market shares. But there is reason to believe that this specialisation will increase Agri's focus on prices, and that both quality and price will make Norwegian agriculture feel inclined to use these products. The Christian People's Party believes that a position of at least 33,4 pst is important. The owner part, and we like to see the company get a robust state feature, so it tolerates fluctuations in the ownership positions, but this becomes a lower limit. At the same time, I would like to stress that I am surprised and wonder about the debate that has taken place before this debate among the opposition parties. One has had a strange discussion, but, as the case-speaker said, it is wrong that it has been on the initiative of the authorities that this development should take place. This is, in my opinion, an absolute positive assessment, and a follow-up of the company itself that I believe is right, in conjunction with its representatives and adding. That's why it should be lacking that we in Stortinget should not give our support to such a desire for a specialization. We support the company's own desire for an exemption to be able to further develop and regain strength. On this background, I want to express my joy at the fact that there will be a broad majority in this room that supports this fission.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1493	The content of the matter has been thoroughly explained by the rapporteur. It is a unanimous committee that agrees that Agri should be issued and listed as a separate company. It is also a unanimous committee that agrees that the State should be a significant owner of the new company. This is not the sale of an activity, but a separation as a separate company with, in particular, the same ownership structure as today. The continued existence of a significant owner by the country is important for several reasons. I am glad that it is actually a unanimous committee that agrees that the state should be the owner of at least one third of the shares. There is a recognition that both Agri and Hydro are interesting companies in which the country should have significant ownership, and there is also a recognition that the state must be a major owner of important companies, in order to ensure national ownership. There are new tones from part of the parties here in the hall, and I'm glad you've come to the realization that it makes sense that the state has a strategic ownership of companies of this kind. The central party is in a minority who want the state to maintain its ownership at the level of Norwegian Hydro today, i.e. approximately. 44 pst. Norwegian Hydro has decided through the process that the board has carried out so far that they will sell the share of 20 pst. in Agri, which they wanted to keep. So they don't want to be a long-term owner of the company. The Central Party does not consider, in this context, that Hydro should retain its 20 p.m. share and would like to have a different transaction model from that of the Governing Board and the Government, where current owners of Hydro initially maintain a corresponding holding in the new company. I have registered that both the Workers' Party and the Advance Party initially signalled the same view as the SV and the Center Party have. The two parties could thus have been present today and secured a majority in order for the State to maintain a holding in line with what is held in Norsk Hydro. The proposal that we and SV agree on probably does not get a majority today. The working party has opened up a purchase at a later stage, and the Progress Party has said that they will decide on their ownership at a later stage. For the Central Party, it is important that we today in any case participate in ensuring that the State has at least one-third of its holding in the company. We therefore want primarily to vote in favour of proposal No. 2, from SV and the Center Party. When that proposal falls, we will support proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, and finally support II in the suspension, which thus ensures that the State must have at least one third ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1504	As you know, the Norwegian Hydro Government, following a thorough review of its strategy, has concluded that the fertiliser business, Agri, should be separated as a separate company. The separation of these activities provides the basis for a new autonomous Norwegian-based listed company with activities worldwide. As always in such cases, I assume that it is the responsibility of each company to assess business circumstances and to propose improvements. Nevertheless, what we are dealing with today is a clear ownership decision, which is underlined by the fact that the Norwegian Hydro General Assembly is invited to decide on fission. It is thus Norwegian Hydro that has itself promoted the proposal for the separation of fertiliser activities, and has also proposed the way to do so which, in the company's opinion, serves the company best and the shareholder values. That being said, the Department has, of course, carried out an independent assessment of the specific proposals made by the company in this matter by means of the expertise available. As explained in more detail in St.prp. No 33, we have concluded that the separation of Agri as a separate company will have a positive effect on the values of the state and on the industrial development of the two companies. Through the proposed model, the country will end up with a holding of about 36 pst. in the new company. I agree with the company's proposal that the Board of Directors of Agri should be given an issuing authorisation in order to have flexibility in the further industrial development of the company. However, I assume that this is limited so that the State holding should not fall below 33,4 pst. A significant state ownership also contributes in this phase to ensuring that the new fertiliser company will have a clear Norwegian anchoring. Despite a number of media performances from several parties that could indicate the opposite, I am pleased to note that there now seems to be a broad political consensus to support the Government's proposals regarding the state's ownership of Agri. Both Norsk Hydro and the new fertiliser company Agri will be among the largest companies in Norway. There will be companies representing large values for the shareholders – including the Norwegian state. But not least, they are also jobs for thousands of people around Norway, with significant environments of expertise in Norwegian business. This underlines the administrative responsibility that we must exercise with regard to state ownership, in order to ensure both the industrial development of companies and the proper development of the country's share values. In the light of the newspapers that have been on this matter for the last 14 days, I have to say that I miss the chairman of the committee here today, who for some reason is not present. When the chairman of the committee, from the largest opposition party, clearly and explicitly expresses strong criticism of how the Council of State has handled and dealt with this matter, and has said that the Council of State put up a dangerous risk-seilas, it is at least provided that the chairman of the committee and the Labour Party's first-person had been so careful that he had been present today to explain what this criticism is all about, so that one could possibly rectify these things. When the representative Hedstrøm in the same order in the newspaper on 8 December says that it is unprofessional of the Council of State, and that he strongly responds to the challenge once again by the Minister of Economic Affairs to the majority of Storting in relation to what has to do with state ownership, I must say that I really expect this to be addressed in a debate as well. There are significant values in these companies. In the case of Norsk Hydro, it's about – a little depending on whether you like. only reads an exchange rate – either 80, 100 or 120 billion kroner. It is that in the exercise of state ownership it does not serve the shareholder values at least that we take this on our heels when there are proposals of this kind. I think it's pretty important that in the exercise of this ownership and in order for the state to be perceived as a professional owner, you think well before attacking any goal that you might think is there. For the state as a whole, through what we have in direct ownership, it's about values somewhere between 250 billion and 350 billion kroner. Well, you could just calculate what 1 pst. up or down this means. And no one should doubt that the actors on the stock exchange are reading statements from what appeared to be an overall opposition. It's pretty important that you think well next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1530	After the President is aware of this, the chairman of the Committee is ill. The President thinks that's why he's not here, not that he's afraid to be here and explain his political views. It could otherwise have brought on the clean before the post, if there had been any interest in it. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1535	Now the president said what I was going to say. It is quite surprising that a government council comes up with such strong criticism that a person is not present, when he does not check what the reason is that he is not present. The Council of State could have asked us others from the Workers' Party about that. I think the Council of State should apologize to the committee's chairman.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1540	When I formulated myself as I did, that I had expected the chairman of the committee to be present, it was based on the very strong criticism that has emerged, which has been quite extraordinary in one, at my discretion, very important matter. I also record that the first spokesperson of the Workers' Party did not take the opportunity to postulate what this criticism was all about. I must admit that I was not aware that the committee leader was ill. I haven't had that done. In this way, there is no reason not to apologize for the personal side of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1547	The representatives of the Central Party were not among those who were out with this criticism, but with respect to reporting, it should be said that the criticism of the opposition parties in the first place was that the Minister of Economic Affairs, in such an important case as this one, the great value of which is at stake, had not been assured through dialogue with the Storting that a majority of the opinion of the Government was based in advance. It could have had quite significant consequences. I would remind the Minister of Industry, when he makes such strong words in his description of this as he does, that former nutritionist spokesperson of the Right, Ansgar Gabrielsen, was not exactly known for being reasonably mild in his descriptions. When the Minister of Economic Affairs took up his role as Council of State, one of the first things he said was that it would take more than 10 seconds to decide whether or not to sell Statkraft. Now, fortunately, Statkraft is not a listed company, but it shows that the Minister of Industry has also been out with his light wits.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1554	In order to take the first step: in relation to dealing with the matter in the Stortinget, it is because if you haven't spoken to the Center Party, that doesn't mean you haven't talked to any other parties that make up a majority in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1559	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1493]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1578	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1494]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1595	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1494]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1612	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1494]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1630	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1494]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1646	The 2002 credit notification is due for the year 2002. At some points, the review has been extended to include developments in 2003. Essentially, there's a number of people who take information about what's in the credit message. When it comes to monetary policy and the International Monetary Fund, the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Coastal Party have their own comments. In the setting of the credit message, a single committee underlines the importance of correct information in annual financial statements. This is a decisive requirement for users to have the necessary trust in this important information source. The revisorbransen is an important actor in order to achieve this. The Committee therefore stresses that auditors and the audit firm have an independent responsibility to ensure that the current strict regulations and regulations on the independence of the statutory auditor are followed. When it comes to the credit notification of monetary policy, a number in the Committee take this review for information. An innovation of the year was the open hearing with the Governor of the Central Bank about the pursuit of monetary policy. This hearing was closed on 1 December of this year. My clear impression is that this was a useful input into the committee's management of the credit message. With the great movement that has taken place in the field of monetary policy in the last year, it is quite natural for the Government to comment and assess these experiences both in the national budget and in the credit notification. However, I cannot see that there is any reason to claim that this review is a clear correction to the practice of monetary policy, as SV claims in his remark. In the case of the relatively broad review of the operation of the International Monetary Fund, a majority of the members of the Committee take it for information. The IMF's activities are concentrated in three main areas: monitoring of the economy of Member States’ loans in the event of payment difficulties and in emergency situations of technical assistance; The IMF, in cooperation with the World Bank, plays an important role in facilitating debt payments for poor countries and in improving their ability to combat poverty. Yes, this was what I was going to say about the 2002 Credit Notice. The people who are particularly interested find more details in the message itself and in the INST folder. S. No 95.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1682	I notice that our Minister of Economic Affairs has increased in degrees – he must act as Minister of Finance. Well, that's nice. There are two aspects in the credit message SV feel the need to comment. One is monetary policy, and the other is IMF. Let me briefly explain both of these. The Financial Committee conducted an open consultation on monetary policy, which, in my opinion, was a renewal and an important way for the Stortinget and the public in general to be made aware of the decisions taken at the Bank of Norway. What emerged there, of course, was that Norway’s Bank did not take any criticism in any way, but I think it is probably right to say when you see what is mentioned in the national budget, that Norway’s Bank has been corrected in three important areas. In particular, two interest rate decisions were made in the spring of 2002 which, in retrospect, were very erroneous. Some people already criticized it, but after that it's probably right to also say, especially when you saw how the crown rose, that these were wrong decisions. What SV has always said is that the mandate under which monetary policy is governed must apply to all parts of the mandate, not only to this third section, which the Governor of the Central Bank also stressed in the open consultation with the Financial Committee of the Storting. The first part of the mandate emphasises employment and production as two very important aspects and also the need for a stable exchange rate. None of these parameters have intervened in the enforcement of monetary policy. On the contrary, the crown has been so strong for periods that Norwegian industry has been shut down. There has been an increase in unemployment throughout the period, and unfortunately we have also had declining production. This means that the mandate has not been handled in such a way that it should have been handled. It is also seen that after this time, there have been several frequent interest rate reductions, which are probably an indication that monetary policy was not well managed over a period of time. Now it's not my main point to criticise the central bank, but it's an important point that you've learned from this. So it's important to focus on the whole of the economy, and not just on a single relationship, like inflation. For a small nation with its own currency, it is infinitely important that all relationships move in the same direction. That means that big business, government, social partners and the central bank play a team. What we have experienced for a period of time is that it has been, as I see it, almost a struggle between the Bank of Norway and the other agencies, where the Bank of Norway says very clearly: we are the ones who are going to rule this. I think an important lesson to learn from this is that you have to pull this stuff together. We've also seen, after a couple of wrong decisions, as I said before, that we have a better regime. The other relationship that I want to mention is the IMF. I am pleased that the IMF gets a broad review in the credit report. This is good for the Storting and good for the public. We believe that it is justified, as we do in our remark, to criticise parts of what the IMF does. This is an international criticism, with many different environments, namely that the IMF has a template that they cover all countries, without taking into account local circumstances. To use Norwegian terminology, there is strong right-wing advice provided by the IMF on how different nations can get on their legs. Many, including prominent economists, have criticised the IMF in the past and present, and that is justified. We now want to move on with this. Norway is currently represented in the IMF’s Governing Board by the Central Bank. We believe it will be necessary to politicise this, too, as one does in the World Bank, where one has a minister as a Norwegian participant. We should also have had the same thing in the IMF. We will come back to a proposal where we want this to be put under either the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Finance, in order to get more politicized in the IMF. For the IMF, to the most extent, is a political organisation, and takes political decisions under the cover of being economically neutral. These are the comments SV would like to attach to this year's credit notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1701	In the credit message I read the following: «In 2001 and 2002, 16 p.m. weakened in competition, mainly in the light of a strong increase in the krona.» It was from the conclusion of the Holden II Committee. From the Ministry's assessment, I quote: ‘The high interest rate difference relative to the rest of the world was probably the main explanation for the strengthening of the krona.’ The Landsforening Processindustrie, PIL, has calculated that Norwegian goods exporters have lost NOK 30 billion net on the strong krone price since we received the new interest rate instruction. Foss has been too passive, is their opinion. I think it's more than strange that it's only SV, the Coastal Party and the Central Party that have comments on the exercise of monetary policy. We are addressing a communication that states that the pursuit of monetary policy is the main explanation of huge economic losses and your two job losses. It was the Progress Party that primarily wanted this conversion in 2001, and it may not be so strange if they now remain silent. But it was the Workers' Party that proposed it, and that is perhaps why the Workers' Party does not say anything, despite the fact that they are otherwise very concerned about what is happening in terms of jobs. However, there must be an indication of what experience has been and, where appropriate, what needs to be changed. I thought it was the processing of this message. The centre party believes that the interest rate was held too high and too long, in 2002, and that this is because the agreed interest rate instruction was not followed. Norway’s Bank has been allowed to ignore parts of the instructions, and there is good reason to criticise Norway’s Bank, but the Minister of Finance is responsible. The centre party thought that we already had enough experience in August 2002, that we saw that this went wrong. We saw that the problems for business were not taken seriously. The president of the centre party, Odd Roger Enoxen, invited all parties in the form of letters to state that Norway’s Bank needs to pay considerable attention to the need for stable development of production and employment. A private proposal on the same subject was submitted in October 2002. Only SV and the Coastal Party have shared our concerns. By not wanting to clarify that the instructions are to be practised in another way, the majority share responsibility with the Minister of Finance. Both the Holden II Committee and the Norwegian Bank Expert Committee have made critical comments on the exercise of monetary policy by Norway’s Bank. These critical comments should have been highlighted more clearly in the communication, and the Ministry should be more clearly aware that the comments contained in this communication actually withdraw a previously silent acceptance that Norway’s Bank has chosen to interpret the interest rate instruction in order to achieve a purely inflationary management.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1724	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1494]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1740	I have to draw attention to two errors in the committee's recommendation. Cape. 5800 Item 50 shall be increased by 28 043000000 to 62 844000000. It is in accordance with the Committee's observations and proposals under point 3.6.1 of the voting. Further action must be taken. 5999 item 90, in accordance with the Committee's comments and proposals under item 3.6.2 of the vote, is reduced by 12 290 500 000 to NOK 13 379 000 000. – A small technical error in the tamp of the year, President, but I'm sure it's going well. I would just like to point out briefly that this is the recent ageing of the 2003 budget. This time, unlike several previous years, the deviations are significant. The oil-corrected deficit has increased by 27, 7 billion dollars since the end of the year. Then it is tempting only to note that at least the so-called rule of action does not prevent the actual use of oil money to a significantly greater extent than what we end up discussing when the budget is being treated in the autumn. When one sees that the total tax revenue has failed with approximately NOK 17.5 billion, i.e. a significant deviation, it comes to my mind that the budgetary negotiations and all the government that arise in connection with the collection of changes krone for krone, that even small changes should roughly overturn the stock exchange and weaken the confidence in a total collapse and government, are slightly sought when one sees the developments in the budget over the year, especially when the deviations are of this size. It's just a brief comment on the actual conditions. I recommend this committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1749	The Chairman of the Committee then explained changes to the printed setting. Those changes will be taken into account during voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1752	I would like briefly to comment on two aspects of the new aging process. One is how this year has actually been. The most telling thing about the effusion is that there have been a very difficult year in many different fields. When tax, tax and interest revenue cracks by over $20 billion, it says that activity in Norway has been low. That also means that many people have been unemployed, and so what we expected has not come in. First of all, this is sad because it means that at some point in our life, when SV called for this, we should increase activity in Norway, so that more hands had come to work. 110 000 people are out of work. Unfortunately, this is an expression of the new aging, when the state's revenues fail with a total of DKK 20 billion in tax, tax and interest income. It also turns out in a completely different situation, that the daily allowance item has increased by more than NOK 3 billion compared to what was prescribed. This means that there has been a low economic downturn in Norway in 2003. We should have increased the speed this spring to get more hands at work. This had also resulted in a rash in the ejaculation. The second thing this says is that we are overfocusing on the budgetary balance in economic policy. It is absolutely right to control the economy, and the balance of the budget as such makes sense. But when the budget balance cracks by NOK 27.5 billion – one has phased into the Norwegian economy 27.5 billion new oil crowns, to use that term – it's all right if you don't talk about it. This means that overfocusing on the budgetary balance sheet also seems pointless as a governance document and as a governance objective. We are in favour of controlling the economy, but what the recent ageing says is that the situation in Norway has been quite bleak throughout the year. This is also shown in another aspect that I want to comment on, and that is the income of the municipalities. When the state budget was settled last year, it was a prerequisite for what municipalities should have, both in transfers from the state and in tax receipts. But the tax revenue has also failed in this field. In the reply to the SV group, it is pointed out that the tax loss for municipalities has been NOK 1.75 billion. After we received this letter, there's probably reason to think that the numbers have gone even more up, at least if you're going to believe what's in the press, and maybe it's double of NOK 1.75 billion. Since the situation is so precarious and dramatic in many municipalities, we have suggested that this money be allocated to the municipalities. We are making proposals today that the municipalities should be added NOK 1.75 billion to compensate for the loss of tax and the loss of activity this has caused in Norwegian municipalities. We believe it is quite reasonable, not as a principle, but as a one-off exercise, simply because the municipalities need this money. The activity has been adjusted so significantly down because this money has been gone. I take up the SV's suggestion in the setting and have no comments on the new aging.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1769	The representative of Øystein Djupedal has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1772	When the budget was adopted one year ago, there was strong warning against spending more oil money than the Government's proposals. If it were done, the interest rate would be in the weather and the price of the crown as well. It would be devastating for business and the social economy. Many proposals for increased appropriations to improve the situation of business and increase activity in the municipal sector were rejected. The centre party proposed, for example: to grant scarcely 4 billion kroner extra. Now we see that in the course of the year 27.7 billion more oil was used, without the exchange rate and interest falling in the weather – on the contrary. The strong increase in unemployment and an even greater decline in participation in the labour force are the result of a misguided economic policy since that government joined. We have had a very greedy fiscal policy that has removed incentives for the billion-dollar economy, and the local economy has been too demanding in relation to the expectations we have shared in creating. We have had a misguided interest rate policy, which has resulted in huge losses for the competitive sector, both in revenue and in the number of jobs. We have had tax exemptions for dividends on shares, which leads to the necessary equity disappearing from the corporations. The government's revenues have become DKK 20 billion lower than expected. The cost has risen to 10 billion kroner. The reasons for this are increased unemployment, less activity and lower profitability for enterprises. The losses for the nation of Norway are probably greater than the figures now mentioned. The real losses in the form of closed and flagged enterprises, lost equity and lost market shares, lost skills, neglected maintenance, increased social and health problems of those affected by unemployment and insecurity will have to limit the value creation in Norway for a long time to come. An important lesson from the years 2002 and 2003 must be that a stable exchange rate is recognised as the most important framework condition for business and also for the public economy. The huge losses of the last year are a new confirmation that the labour force is our sovereign most important resource. In the opinion of the Centre Party, oil wealth needs to be used much more actively to stimulate full employment and to transform our workforce. Such a strategy will best ensure the revenue needed to cover future pensions. I certainly believe that 5 billion kroner plus a year ago to stimulate business would reduce the losses we are now registering, by at least 10 billion kroner and give us 15 000-20 000 fewer unemployed. We have just completed another budgetary procedure, the main purpose of which has been not to go over the chalk line for the permitted use of oil money. Two years of experience show that the slanting security of what the economy can withstand should have been much less. How many years should it take for the media to reveal that the rule of action for the use of oil money is the new version of the Keierten clothes? The Central Party has made a new attempt to invite all parties to make the commitments they made during the election campaign on better conditions for municipalities to provide welfare services. The central government of the municipalities has estimated a tax deficit of DKK 2.75 billion from the 2003 budget. This is an extraordinary loss and an exceptional situation. As far as I remember, it hasn't happened in the last ten years that tax revenue has fallen so much. The central party proposes that 2 billion be allocated as compensation for the tax failure. Such a commitment will reduce the deficit on the accounts of the year, if adopted. I'd like to take up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1793	The representative Morten Lund has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1796	I could fall for the temptation now to describe the situation in the municipalities further after the last tax failure message of NOK 3 billion. I shall not do that at that time, but I will make a statement on the basis of proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox In the spring session, the deposit will deal with the report of St. Announcement. No 47 for 2002-2003 on a compensation scheme for the pioneer divers. Earlier in the fall, Stortinget has taken immediate action according to the orientation of some of the pioneers. Under the hood. So 1,500, it's going to be equal to 10 million. kr for this year. Up until now, on application, there are well 6 million paid. kr. The Municipal Committee considers it a good thing that one can transfer the rest of the funds, and it is on this basis that I take up proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1803	The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1806	I'll just say a few words at the end of the debate. I understand that there may be some impatience on the part of others after concluding a debate. However, I think it is necessary to comment on a few aspects relating to the ageing of this house at the end of the autumn's budgetary procedure, which are also of a more fundamental nature in relation to the work of this house on budgetary matters. I have to say that there is no particular debate about the apparent appearance of the recent ageing of some weaknesses in our budgetary system. Those weaknesses may become more visible this year because of the economic downturn and the changes it brings about in relation to tax failures, lower dividends, additional unemployment costs, etc. However, one should note that only from the debate on the 2004 state budget barely a month ago and until today can one say that, while we discussed the budgetary balance line so precisely just a month ago that there was little room to discuss an additional half or a billion in the use of oil money, we are, therefore, back at the 2003 re-emission with an increased use of oil money of 27 billion dollars over the current year. It puts some of the other debate we have had, not least the debate we have had on the balance sheet of the annual government budgets, in some remarkable light. I think that is reason to point out at the end of this debate, especially when we also see the great unsolved tasks that we have spent a lot of time in the harvest discussing, both in the context of the financial position and also in relation to the various trade budgets. The second principal point that I think should also be mentioned at the end of the debate, is that the seams of the rash are extra large this year, is the second year in a row we are discussing increasing the use of oil money at the top of DKK 10 billion, based on the current year's budget, in the light of the debate we just had, where the line was as precisely set as it was. For 2002, it was almost 10 billion kroner. This year it'll be NOK 27 billion. And the question is, after the nineteenth debate we've had in the autumn on the budgetary balance sheet, what it might be next year. There is a question that I think we should give some thought to in the transition to the 2004 budget and after the debates we have had in this room in the autumn, where we have looked at many large, unresolved needs and have to say no several times in the interests of a chalk line that is really in the loose air.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1819	I have noticed that several representatives, and no later than the last article, are concerned about the high use of oil revenues. It is a concern that should be maintained throughout the year. Otherwise, we've put a year behind us with significant financial problems. I also dare to remind the assembly that we have had the biggest stock exchange fall since the 1920s. In this way, the state has also become poorer. Something is probably recovered, but not everything at all. So I'm aiming for the petroleum fund. We have left behind a year when the American and European economies have been experiencing shocks that a few years ago have hardly been thought possible. We've put behind us a year when the growth in the current year seems to be closer to zero than 1 pst. It is clear that this also affects the accounting figures. Now we're not facing accounting figures, but we're facing something that's pretty close to that, namely, the new aging. I do not agree that there are weaknesses in a budgetary system, whether it is seen with the eyes of the Storting or with the eyes of the Government, that we do not have the power to make forecasts of such great economic fluctuations. I was about to say that whoever had found the instrument, to look into the crystal ball and figure out how it goes in an uncertain time, would have at least used it. To put it this way: such instruments are not available. So national banks around the world with the highest level of competence have gone wrong in their forecasts. The growth was missing much longer than you had thought. The problems were deeper than thought at the time. This, of course, also affects the Norwegian economy. So just to be concrete in a couple of areas, it means that the biggest decrease in relation to the aged budget is a reduction in tax revenue of NOK 17.5 billion in total. This is due to several relationships. When we presented the revised national budget, it was about 11 of these billions can be registered, based on accounting figures. After that, tax revenue has been further reduced by NOK 6.7 billion. About NOK 4.5 billion of this downgrading can be traced back to a conversion of accounting and the collection of VAT, which cancels out in the accruals of these revenues, i.e. nothing directly related to the growth of the economy. Reduced interest income as a result of a reduced interest rate has caused DKK 4 billion and increased daily money expenditures barely NOK 3 billion. On the expenditure side is the regular expenditure that has had a greater growth than foreseen. The bulk of this is due to expenditure under public or health care. A significant part of these increased the net costs of approx. SEK 3.5 billion is due to decisions taken in Stortinget, among others. in response to the current crisis and social security in spring. So these are transparent and predictable expenditure increases, seen with the Storting's eyes. Both the state and the municipalities, and for that matter also businesses and households, must live with uncertainty. You can't for that reason be budgeting or setting a framework for the business. The fact that there is uncertainty in the economy, as I initially explained, cannot in itself justify a deterioration in the budgetary balance when the Storting adopts the budget for the harvest. To put it another way: the fact that one faces an economy with a high degree of national and international uncertainty is no argument for using even more money from future pension funds. Government income and expenditure have a real impact on the economy, regardless of the degree of uncertainty associated with the estimates. The estimates of tax receipts and a number of estimates of estimates in the government budget are based on macroeconomic projections and, of course, on the accounts so far available. Thus, when the budget is drawn up, there is considerable uncertainty about both the starting point and the future economic development. Some years this will lead to an increase in the budget deficit throughout the year, while in the second year it will lead to a strengthened budgetary balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1837	The centre party has been concerned that we should use domestic oil money to the extent necessary to maintain employment and avoid the present situation. We have argued as well as we could, without having had a positive impact on Stortinget. We believe that what has now happened has confirmed what we have said. It's not postponing when we say it now, because we've done it in the three budgets that I've been involved in. We have said that we need to spend some more money on the state budget to stimulate business. We're told from business that now it's needed. That was the message we thought we had received when Odd Roger Enoksen wrote that letter last summer. Then we'd have seen it long enough. What the business community then said was that the Minister of Industry is passive, we don't feel that he cares and listens to what we're saying. They also said that when the exchange rate increases and it gets hurt because they lose so much of their income, they expected the Minister of Finance to talk to the Bank of Norway and do something about it. Unfortunately, that did not happen. We've wanted to spend the oil money on purpose and not let them be spent in every direction, as it happens now. That's the situation we've feared. In our central statistical agency, calculations showed what could be the effect of spending an extra DKK 2.5 billion on the state budget per year. the quarter of the remainder of 2003 and 2004. The calculations showed that the unemployment rate would not increase. They also calculated that if the same money was given as tax relief to people, it would have no effect whatsoever on employment, while using it focused on the state budget was – I think it was – 20,000 more jobs we would get than if we didn't. That's why we've said what we've said, and it's not after-time when we now point out that the situation has unfortunately become what we're warning against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1848	The President will point out that we are approaching the end of the regulatory period. As far as the President has understood by the members of the Financial Committee, this debate shall not take very long. The President therefore proposes that we continue the meeting until today's map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1851	I actually drew a line to the Minister of Finance, and that is why this will prove to be a challenge to the Minister of Finance. That's because Morten Lund came in between. It is true that there is no crystal ball, as the Minister of Finance says. At the same time, it is clear that after the spring we were through, you shouldn't have to have a crystal ball to see that unemployment increased, and that there were very difficult times. We had linked to the revised national budget a major debate in the United Kingdom on unemployment and measures to get out of work. What the recent aging shows is that we should have had activity corrections in the spring to avoid spending extra $3 billion on passive payments to the unemployed, instead of spending more money to get value creation. That's what was the option, that's to use the money actively to get free hands to do the work that society actually needs. And that's really what's my challenge to the Minister of Finance: now that we're looking at the fact that we've spent $3 billion more on passive unemployment instead of adjusting activity to the spring to get out of work, wouldn't it have been a more sensible way to use society's resources? Wouldn't it have been more reasonable for us to spend part of this money building schools, cleaning up kindergartens, building roads, railways or whatever else would be sensible? Instead, we now see that unemployment has increased, payments have increased, and society has not got anything left for this payment, which we could have got if you had gone in for that SV and some others in this room had been in charge in our room. The second thing I could imagine challenging the Minister of Finance is this overfocusing on the budget balance that is linked to all government budgets. You see how this went this year, and you can also see how it went last year, and it's true, as the finance minister says, that a few years go a lot better than what you've assumed, and that way you get more tax revenue and more activity than you planned. But now you've cracked by $27.5 billion, which is a pretty significant sum. And when you talk about using oil money, this is very significant, I think the Minister of Finance will also agree with that. Does he then think it is right to have such an overfocus on the budgetary balance sheet? Or does he think that, in some situations, it may actually be right not to use budgetary balances as a management target, because it is simply a little poorly guided by this budgetary objective, when you now see what the status actually is? Can it be right in some situations to deviate from this to create activity? So once again to my first question: shouldn't we use these 3 billion a little bit wiser?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1860	Øystein Djupedal may be glad that this was not a line, for it took several longer times than 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1863	I have no desire to extend this debate, but both the representatives Morten Lund and Øystein Djupedal are trying to make this a broad fiscal debate that is really about the interaction between fiscal policy and monetary policy. That's the debate that Øystein Djupedal and Morten Lund are now trying to pull up. It's a discussion that belongs more to the ordinary budget when we deal with it. We have argued that it has been right and necessary to keep public spending in order to make monetary policy work. What we can see at the end of this year is that that policy has worked. By holding back expenditure growth and by holding back public budgets, monetary policy has worked, in the sense that interest rates have fallen and the krone has weakened, and it has facilitated the situation for business. That's why we now see that optimism is coming back to business, economic growth is coming up, and we've already received signals that unemployment can be going down. It's a bit paradoxical to hear that both Morten Lund and the representative of Djupedal, on the one hand, are concerned that more oil money has been spent because the economic cycle has been bad, while at the same time wanting to spend even more. It's not on your fingertips. There is nothing in the new age that should mean that a more liberal fiscal policy should be pursued. This is a purely political issue and therefore falls more within the ordinary budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1868	Economic policy today must be an interface between fiscal policy, monetary policy and income policy. The parties to the income statement asked for a sample to be set up to look at this interaction. It was called the Holden II Committee. There, the parties were represented, in addition to some economic expertise. They gave a clear advice: in order to reduce unemployment, economic policies should take place in 2003 and 2004 through monetary policy, not primarily through fiscal policy. That Council has been followed by the Government. The scheme has resulted in a significant decline in interest rates and a deterioration in the price of the crown which in turn will strengthen competitiveness. So to the question of whether we are overfocusing on the budget balance. It's probably a debate that's a little too old. I believe that if you used the search engine on the posts in the financial debate this year, you would find that the word ‘budget balance’ was not used very often – in my post it was hardly used. So we're governed by a rule of action that the Storting itself has established, which provides considerable flexibility. This flexibility has been used in the 2004 scheme, in the sense that more money has been spent than would have been done in times where less stimulation was needed. But the main line remains that monetary policy should stimulate. I record that it is the business community satisfied with – even very satisfied with it. There were different reactions to the decisions of the main board of directors of Norway yesterday, but the reactions of the competitive business were at least clearly positive, and the effects on the exchange rate are already very, very visible. So that's the way it's been. Perhaps, on this last day of the handling of economic issues by the Grand Duchy, the opportunity to rejoice a little over the fact that everyone now sees that developments yield more positive results than the Storting itself — and the Government for that matter — provided for during the treatment of the national budget a few weeks ago,
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1875	Morten Lund has spoken twice and gets the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1878	The government is concerned that what's going to hang again is that now it's good around the Norwegian business community, now it's going the right way, and they're happy. The interest rate has fallen, but it's not because of the government's policy, it's because we've had an unfortunate situation in Norwegian business, with a leave that we shouldn't afford at all. That's why it's now getting low interest rates, and it's possible to start over. But what if we had done without the downtime we've now had? Then we could have had significantly greater opportunities to pay future pensions. We could have spent money in budget decisions at Stortinget focused, instead of one now having to go out and cover huge gaps in the accounts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1883	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1494]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1900	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1499]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1908	Then we go to voting in the cases on today's map. Because it gets so alarmed when we're done voting and people start going, the president has a message from the honourable gentleman. the President-in-Office of the Council that the Lamentations Meeting will be set at 0 p.m. 18 today. It is not possible to expedite this meeting in the light of the provisions of the Basic Law on time limits. But then someone in Odelstinget said, "Yes, it was now suitable for these team members!" [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1919	During the debate, Mr Ågot Valle, Member of the Presidency, put forward the following proposals: ‘The provisions on remuneration of the grossing-up representatives, etc., laid down by the Stortinget on 10 November 1966, as amended, shall be amended as follows:§ 2 shall be replaced by the following: In the first place, this proposal is to be replaced by the President's appointment to Section 2 of the Decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1957	President! I didn't get to press the trigger! [[Laughter]] I wanted to vote for the vote!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e1964	Then 84 votes were cast in favour of the presidency's position and 16 votes in favour of the proposal. With this number of votes, the vote has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2007	During the debate Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa put forward the following proposals on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to set out the challenges and measures in the water and sewerage sector in the Municipal Proposition for 2005’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2026	The President assumes that the Labour Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2041	During the debate Kenneth Svendsen presented the following proposals on behalf of the Progress Party: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate up to 500 million take-up by the Flytrain AS. crowns through stock exchange quotation.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2184	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2229	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2383	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2398	During the debate Kenneth Svendsen presented the following proposals on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left Party: ‘1. The government is asking for a temporary halt to all work on Phase 1 of Tønsberg and the planning work on Phase 2, until 1 October 2004, pending a new treatment by the local government.2. By 1 October 2004, the Government asks for an investigation into road construction to conflict with the Ramsar Convention for the Protection of Wetlands.3. The Storting asks the Government, in cooperation with the municipalities of Tønsberg, Tjøme and Nøtterøy, to explore possible alternative financing options for the project, including arrears toll payment and measures for increased collective participation.» Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced by the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2424	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2432	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Grethe Fossli, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, by Inge Ryan on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 3, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party The President will first vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2447	I would ask that proposal No. 3 comes on the basis of proposals Nos. 1 and 2 in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2454	It's going to be very difficult, because the Central Party has notified subsidiary voting in relation to the Workers' Party, but we can try.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2457	Can we not take the order of proposal No. 2 first, then proposal No. 1 and then proposal No. Three?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2464	It has to go. Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to ensure that the country’s share in Agri following a fission shall be equal to that of Norwegian Hydro ASA’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2481	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government shall be given the necessary powers to purchase Agri-axes over time, so that the ownership of Agri-ASA will in the long term increase to 44 pst.If issues are carried out in Agri-ASA, the State shall use its preferential subscription rights to the greatest extent possible.’ Here the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have warned that they want to support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2500	Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present to the Grand Duchy the question of State participation in an issue in Agri, if such issue takes place before the Grand Duchy has completed its proceedings on state ownership.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2515	The Labour Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2522	It will also be the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2529	And the Center Party!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2536	It was okay to be made aware of. The President then understood that proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, will be supported subsidiaryly by the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2570	The Socialist Left Party has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2587	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Inge Ryan on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left, submitted by the meeting of 11 December 2003 of the Odelstinget: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Storting with budgetary and administrative implications of providing the instrument with a four-year budgetary framework.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2606	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 11 December 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the primary industries appoint one member of the Governing Council and one member of each Regional Government, as set out in paragraph 1. Act on Innovation Norway. These members shall alternate between the different professional layers.’.» The President has understood that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2627	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Inge Ryan, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the meeting of 11 December 2003 of the Odel Stingen: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the costs of the new food inspection are not passed on to the industry more than a maximum of 70 pst. of the total costs.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2647	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 11 December 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that a maximum of 80 pst. the costs of the Food Authority may be covered by fees and charges.’;» The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2683	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, by Morten Lund, on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 3, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Municipal Committee Proposal No. 2, from the Centre Party and the Coast Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2003 budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostDestination:Croner571Room grants to municipalities60Inhabitant grants, increased by 1,622 000 000 from NOK 33 183 723 000 to NOK 34 805 723 000 572Room grants to county municipalities60Inhabitant grants, increased by 378 000 000 from NOK 12 563 342 000 to NOK 12 941 342 000’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2766	Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostFormålKroner571Rame grants to municipalities [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3572)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e2839	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Municipal Committee. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Transferable appropriationsThe budget agrees to the allocation under the heading. 1500 Ministry of Labour and Administration post 70 Contributions to the pioneer dives are made transferable by adding the keyword ‘can be transferred’.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e4142	The President shall draw attention to the following corrections under I, as explained by the Chairman of the Committee: Under the hood. 5800 item 50, the correct amount of the increase shall be NOK 28 043000000, the amount to be paid shall be NOK 62 844000000. Under the hood. 5999 item 90, the correct amount for reduction shall be NOK 12 299 500000 and the amount for addition shall be NOK 13 379 000 000.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e4160	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Ranveig Frøiland, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, submitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 15 December 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the impact of using the gross old-age pension benefit less the estimated benefit from popular security as the key to the regulatory premium, and asks the Government to come back on its own.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-18.ana.ud1574e4182	There is no record. The President wants the representatives to have a really good Christmas! We meet fresh and rested in the New Year.
