ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e47	The representatives Finn Kristian Marthinsen, Karin S. Woldseth, Berit Brørby, Heidi Larssen, Reidar Sandal, John I. Alvheim, Ivar Østberg and Øystein Djupedal, who have been on leave – they have been in the United States – have now returned, and we warmly welcome them. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the West-Agder province: Sigmund Kroslid For Akershus County: Sverre Myrli For the county of Hordaland: Erlend Nornes For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Ottar Kaldhol and Ingrid I. Opedal For Oslo: Ola Elvestuen For Vestfold County: Marie Kürstein On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme for the current week be amended so that, on Thursday 23 October following the end of the Grand Summit, the minutes of the Odelstinget meeting are held. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e110	The President will propose the election of two presidents for Stortinget's meetings this week. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e115	I propose Ranveig Frøiland and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e120	Ranveig Frøiland and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Ranveig Frøiland and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are considered unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e128	The President makes it clear that because we have received a somewhat different discussion in case No. 1, it is possible that today's meeting will last a little longer than noon. 15th The President proposes that this morning's meeting in this case be continued until today's map is completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e144	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Left and the Coastal Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and after the contributions of members of the Government, within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e153	With a certain reservation for Stortinget's voting later today, the setting we can now submit means a happy day for the Maritime Defense and therefore for the Norwegian defence and for Norwegian security. The government is asking in the proposition we are now dealing with, for the conclusion to the contract of five new shield-class missile torpedo boats and for the adaptation of the front-line vessel KNM Shield. The total of six vessels are part of the structure adopted by the Stortinget already during the treatment of St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001, cf. Inner. S. No 342 from the same period. The work on Skold class has been withdrawn from the project ‘New MTB structure’, which also included updating 14 MTBs of the so-called Hauk class. For example, the vessels of the Shield class are used to support special operations and to protect petroleum installations. The mobility and sensor of vessels enable one to monitor and control large sea areas. In peacetime, the ship will assert sovereignty and support the necessary exercise of authority and jurisdiction. Ships are scheduled to be delivered during the period 2006-2009, with operational operation from 2009. The annual operating and maintenance costs of the vessels will be between 150 and 160 million. kr. The overall cost framework for the project will be 4 675 million. kr. It is therefore a very significant investment we are making, for the benefit of Norwegian safety along the coast. These costs include the material investment, including uncertainty buffers and goods and services to be provided by the defence, set at 4,409 million. kr, implementation costs, set at 125 million. SEK and construction costs, which are set at 141 million. kr. The project does not include the acquisition of missiles. In its third draft budget, the Government continues to maintain a record budgetary level of the defence structure. This means, among other things: that the ongoing reversion of the Defence is continued with full force. As early as 2001, the Storting adopted a structure which included six Skjold class missile torpedo boats. The Defence Committee has now put forward a position on the approval of the acquisition of five new Shield-class missile torpedo boats and updates of the KNM Shield prototype. It is only SV that – not surprisingly in defence context – does not stand behind the setting. That means that there is a very broad political consensus about the acquisition, which is very pleasing. In St. prp. No 55 for 2001-2002, cf. Inner. S. No 232 for 2001-2002, it was set at 880 million. kr to the project for the period 2002-2005, while the negotiated result available entails a payment of 2064 million. kr. This shift in costs associated with the MTB project could mean that other activities and projects need to be shifted during this period. The other sum is paid in the period 2006 to 2011. A unanimous committee points to Norway’s challenges in view of its seven times greater sovereignty over marine areas. The Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea are among the world's most productive sea areas. The climate and darkness conditions make the areas particularly vulnerable, and the risk of shipping accidents and accidents, increased petroleum activities in the north, the transport of crude oil and spent nuclear fuel must be met by offensive measures. These are realities that will be understood, even by a peasant from Hedmark. The entire defence committee outside SV refers to the fact that the missile torpedo boats in the Skjold class will provide a strengthened capacity for the enforcement of sovereignty, territorial security and support for civil operations, and considers this to be particularly important in the north. The missile torpedo boats are the most powerful element of maritime defence operations along the coast. They have great speed, rapid response, and powerful impact. With its very short response time, the Skjold class can be present quickly to save lives and values along the coast, north and south, within 24 hours of home base. The shield class is the MTBs of the future. Compared to the Hauk class, they will be able to cover larger areas and reach destinations faster. In addition, they will be equipped with the latest weapons and radar technology. The commercial vessel KNM Skold is the world's fastest seagoing vessel with a top speed of up to 60 knots. Vessels are designed to operate in coastal waters but have also proved to have good seagoing characteristics. For example, the vessel sailed to the United States without assistance from other vessels. The stay in the United States lasted for one year, and the Americans showed – and show – great interest in the ship. The seagoing characteristics of the ship make it also suitable for, for example: to participate and safeguard Norwegian oil and gas interests in the North Sea against terrorism. They can also cut off the attackers from getting to the seaway, and they can operate with ship control, which seems to be increasing the need for the future. In addition, they will be able to fulfil the more traditional MTB task of securing shore-side supply lines through patrols, escorts and the like. The Skjold class shows Norwegian boat and defense technology at its very best. The boats shall be built by Umoe Mandal in cooperation with Kongsberg Defence and Aerospace and the French company Armaris. The international interest in these vessels can contribute positively to the Norwegian industry in addition to what is achieved through the contracting of these six vessels to the Norwegian defence. I would also like to mention that the foreign suppliers have committed themselves to repurchase purchases for NOK 1 billion over a ten-year period. In addition to that, I would just refer to the document that exists and recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e198	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e201	The Labour Party agrees with the rapporteur on this matter. I still have a question for the representative. The night before the committee set up, a senior officer in the defense went out in the NRK Evening News and the TV2 news with a play probably directed by the defense chief. We were told that the defense would not have the MTBs. Yes, we certainly had to, if we built them, put half of the hunting fleet on the ground. VG followed up with a mini leader last Saturday. It was told that the new MTBs would remain at the exhibition in Bergen, and that the only reason for their being built is pressure from industry and LO – I do not know if it is the representative Hernæs’ particularly close relationship with LO that the editorial had in mind. But is it the case that the MTBs are supposed to be decorated, or are we talking about the new generation of missile torpedo boats that, in the event of new threats – we have a long and vulnerable coast – will help to strengthen security, among other things. in the northern regions? If this question is perceived as leading, I can confirm that it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e208	As far as relations with LO were concerned, there was a professional who spoke out. It is possible that it is the type of connections that shape the views of the Workers' Party, but that is not the case for the Government and the Right. I am pleased to be able to make clear that we have acquired these boats for the defence of Norway, and that the jobs and strengthening of Norwegian defence technology that very joyfully follow in the wake of the cold water are a consequence of the need for defence and not the opposite. It's important to be told. However, it is also important to say that as part of the government’s positive work to secure Norwegian jobs, this can also form part of that concept. As far as the director of the show is concerned, I don't have such clairvoyant abilities as Marit Nybakk, so whether the head of defense has anything to do with this, I can't say about it. But the boats are definitely not to be at the exhibition at the port.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e217	In connection with the treatment during the previous ageing period of St. prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 concerning the conversion of defence during the current period, there was considerable uncertainty and a debate about the real need for these missile torpedo boats, also due to the difficult economic situation in defence. This is still valid. What does the representative here believe that these boats should actually be used for? And what other projects does Kernæs think should be postponed or terminated as a result of this contract?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e224	The representative of Bjørklund asks what these boats ‘really to be used for’. There is a suspicion of the decision of the majority of the population. I explained in detail what the boats should be used for, and there is no ‘real’ agenda in addition to that – it only exists in SV’s general mistrust of what defence has to do with it. The boats are part of a structure to which the Stortinget agreed as early as 2001. Nothing has happened that suggests that the need is not there as it has been all along.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e231	There is no major disagreement within the Committee expressed by the representative Hernæs on the acquisition of these vessels. As I said, it's just the SV that's against. However, there are some worrying points around this, including: a response from the Council of State to the Committee on the Postponing and Transfer of Elements to the Army. A good number of projects have been drawn up, including: the conversion of belt wagons and armoured vehicles, the acquisition of base sets, etc. – a whole series of moments. Although the promise has come that you will come back to this and it will be postponed in time, I would like to ask: does the representative here see any problems with what is promised by the Council of State that she will come back to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e240	There is no doubt that I would have liked to have seen that it would not have been necessary to shift any of the acquisitions we have decided within the structure we are going to implement. It's just that there are some economic realities that we can't get out of. I have no indication whatsoever that this is not what the Council of State says, namely a postponement – as the Storting has been told in writing that it is – and that it will come back to these acquisitions at a time when the cash flow will be different, because we take a significantly larger part of the acquisition of the MTBs at an earlier stage than we thought and meant at the time when we took the other acquisitions. We will most definitely come back to this, and it is clearly within the framework of the current period of defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e246	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e249	The world's first torpedo boat was delivered to the Norwegian Navy on 24 November 1873. So MTBs are going to be 130 in a month. And a more gloomy anniversary, maybe: 60 years ago, July 28, 1943, the MTB 345 was taken by the Germans in Solund in Sogn and Fjordane. The team was taken to Bergen and liquidated. The MTBs operated during the war from Shetland and into our fjords. When I bring this up, it's not just to underline what a proud historical tradition the new Shield class is in. It is primarily to emphasise that our long-range coast has been and is vulnerable, with different threats and with different security policy framework conditions. Our marine areas, not least in the north, require extensive maritime surveillance. These are potential terrorist attacks against oil and gas installations, or the misuse of nuclear waste and nuclear competence from the Kola Peninsula for the development of weapons that may be in the hands of terrorists. But it is also about the fact that it is from the sea Norway has acquired its greatest wealth. It is also at sea that we have had our greatest disasters. Industries with maritime links together account for a very large proportion of Norwegian value creation — and thus the basis for our prosperity. We are a maritime power of global importance, both civil and military. In addition to a hugely long coastal strip of complicated topography, Norway manages, as the case-rapporteur emphasised, a maritime jurisdiction area seven times our territory. This requires close cooperation between civil and military preparedness, but not least maritime presence. Today, the maritime defence structure is more important than ever. Our stationary check and checkpoints are closed or in a mill bag. Coastal surveillance shall be carried out from mobile devices. Here the new MTBs with a unique new technology will be our flagships. Vessels are equally usable in support of special operations such as protecting the oil and gas installations along the coast and at sea. Mobility and sensors enable the Skold class to monitor and control our sea areas. Shields may cooperate with aircraft and ships both nationally and in NATO. That Skold is industrial competence at its best, and that Norwegian jobs produce something Norway's defence and NATO actually needs, I think it's a positive thing. Developing competence in advanced defence equipment in our own country is indeed security policy. Isn't it? Then there may be existing vessels we don't need after the end of the cold war. They should then be capable of being withdrawn from service and disposed of. For this reason, the Committee: asked the Ministry for a review of the overall ship structure of the Maritime Defence Agency when presenting the long-term proposal for spring. MTB Skold is also part of the already adopted operational structure from 2001 and 2002. The decision to acquire the vessels was taken in June 2001. We have repeatedly stressed that the defence needs peace, stability and predictability based on the final structural decision of 19 June 2002. So when we are going to deal with a new long-term defence plan in the spring, it is my opinion that there are completely different and necessary organizational changes that we have to decide on. We're not going to have a fight, as the head of defense and his closest one seems to want. In fact, the Defence Committee is getting tired of ongoing attempts at rematching and torpedoing political decisions. Playoffs against the MTBs by a couple of key officers must be interpreted as a lack of confidence in the Storting and the security policy thinking expressed by majority decisions here. But trust actually goes both ways. That's what the same officers should think about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e270	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e273	The resistance to the purchase of missile torpedo boats is not a new date. I will quote the Chief of Defense Sigurd Frisvold, who in a chronicle in the Evening Post on April 18, 2001 says: ‘I have therefore not found it possible to give new MTBs priority within a comprehensive resource and operational assessment. The tasks that remain when the threat of marine invasion has been drastically reduced, including: sovereignty and coastal surveillance, can be resolved by continuing the updated MTBs we have today.’ I would like to ask the representative Nybakk if she considers it to have increased the risk of invasion since those words were said in 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e283	I don't think our marine defense is going to deal with invasion risks in the coming years. At least I don't see any great danger that we'll get any invasion, either from the Soviet Union, that doesn't exist anymore, or from any other side. On the other hand, we have a long and vulnerable coast. We have large seas, which are both productive and resource-rich, which we need to monitor, and which we need to protect. So that means we're both going to have civil and military surveillance. As I said in my post, it is no longer that we have stationary monitoring sites. We actually have to use mobile devices. When we build the new MTBs, it's based on an entirely new technology, which is the future MTBs. I would like to refer to the statements made by the rapporteur in this connection. Then it may be that there are other vessels that have to be taken out and sold. The operation of these vessels must, in my opinion, be based on an overall assessment. That's why we've asked for a complete overview of the overall ship structure of the Marine Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e290	I believe that the defense's top management has noticed that their only supporter in Stortinget is SV, and I think the defense's management has noticed that SV is not a reliable ally in defence matters. That is why I think perhaps the representative Marit Nybakk went a bit far in his criticism of what the Norwegian officer has said on the occasion of the case. I would also have liked to see that it had not come in the form it did, but I am reasonably satisfied that as long as the Storting stands for the appropriations, others are allowed to speak. There is little reason to believe that the defence should not be loyal to the decisions taken by Stortinget. I would like to ask the representative Marit Nybakk if she does not agree with such an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e295	My starting point is that it is the Stortinget and the defence politicians in the Grand Duchy who must at all times lay the framework conditions for the defence policy being pursued here in this country. It is also the Storting and the political environment that need to assess which threat images exist, what organisational structure, what types of weapons and what other structure we need to ensure the safety of Norwegian citizens. That's what we're primarily here to do. The defence must, of course, follow this loyally. But I'm actually not sure if we hadn't still had a cold war structure unless those politicians who are responsible for defence policy had actually taken responsibility for making the premises to be made. We have had a round of both integrated management, moving to Akershus and now the MTBs, where, after decisions have been taken in Stortinget, they actually go out and criticize.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e302	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e305	First of all, I would like to refer to what the representative, Mrs Hernæs, had to say that it was in connection with the discussion of St. prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 a decision was made that clearly states that we should go in for the acquisition of Skjold-class missile torpedo boats. We are therefore obliged to follow this up, and it has not least to do with predictability of the defence. They're not exactly spoiled with it. The party of progress has registered that the management of the defence has given clear signals that they do not want Skjold-class missile torpedo boats to be acquired. We have also recorded in this context that the management of maritime defence does not want these vessels now, with the budget proposed. We understand that this is not due to the fact that the Maritime Defense does not want the ships initially, but that the draft budget is so low that such acquisitions on the basis of the proposed framework will not be sound in view of the other tasks and investment needs of the Maritime Defence. In the context of the MTB acquisition, the Progress Party is concerned about the signals arising from the conclusion of the contract. There is a high risk of not having a main supplier to deal with. The need to deal with several sub-contractors may lead to uncertainty about the discharge of financial and logistical responsibilities. The risk distribution between the defence and the sub-suppliers is also a matter of concern, as it is the defence that through this has the greatest risk part of the project. It is alarming that the department has begun negotiations in the way we see here. All previous experience, including the frigate project, shows that it is crucial for a project that there are clear lines of responsibility and reporting. This is, as we see it, not taken care of by the solution described here. As Skjold Prime Consortium is not an independent legal entity, but consists of Umoe Mandal, Kongsberg Defence and Aerospace and Armaris, the defense has thus three counterparties to the contract. As we see it, it is very difficult to implement sound quality assurance of the project. It is also a danger signal for cooperation that none of the three companies wanted to assume a primary responsibility for suppliers. The defence must assure us that they have good quality assurance and reporting procedures that meet the requirements of the Riksrevision in this type of process. A contract with this starting point does not work for us in this way. The danger signals related to the conclusion of the contract I have mentioned here are also included in the cancellation notice form. The payment profile of the contract also causes a number of defence problems. Among other things, other acquisition projects will have to be postponed as a result of large channelling of funds for the Skold project. This will mean that other changes in the Defence will not be possible according to the agreed timetable and structure. The party of progress fears that the level of activity in the defence will also suffer as a result of this payment profile. This may mean that the Defence will not be able to maintain the quality of service it is provided for in the new structure, which in turn will weaken our defence capabilities and our ability to assist allies in operations where it is natural for Norway to contribute. The Progress Party expects the Government to continue the adopted progress of the defence budgets, so that the legitimate fear of the Defence Manager on this point does not become a reality. The government's draft budget is irresponsibly low, rather in line with the government's defence agreement with the Workers' Party. It will surprise us whether the Workers' Party can accept this development, as this is a clear breach of the agreement. The Party considers it necessary to clarify the contractual relationship before concluding a final agreement with the suppliers. As we see the role of Maritime Defence, we believe it is necessary to acquire the Skjold class, despite the gloomy predictions I have brought here – not least in support of the new frigates under construction, and of missions in Norwegian neighbourhoods. Skold-class MTB is also particularly well suited to operate in Norwegian fjords and in the context of missions related to e.g. oil installation in the Norwegian Sea. We therefore believe that if the weaknesses of the contract we have pointed out are corrected, we will support the acquisition of the shield-class MTBs, as this will complete the defence weapon. Finally, I would like to point out what I said in the introduction that Stortinget already has a decision on the acquisition of Skold. Based on the assurances given in connection with the major concerns the Progress Party has about the conclusion of the contract, I would recommend voting in favour of the majority decision included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e324	The case concerns the purchase of five missile torpedo boats of the Skjold class and is a continuation of the decision made by the majority of the population in connection with St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001. On the June day of 2001 when this was adopted, the defence structure for the current period was discussed, and, as we know, the Stortinget went in to add to the structure, among others. these missile torpedo boats. Today, this is the concrete investment project we are dealing with. Snue 5 billion kroner – or 4,675 billion dollars – is the price tag, nearly 1 billion dollars per year. Paragraph In addition, the cost of weapons comes. There was a lot of turmoil about this last time the matter was up, because these boats were not inside the proposition from the government – a government based on the Workers' Party. There were good reasons for that, and I will mention two of them: first the need for such boats, or rather the lack of need, and then the economic aspect of the matter, which is that there may be a lot you might want to buy, but not all of the money is available. First to the need: in the comments in the position in this case, the majority, with the exception of SV: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the member of the Socialist Left Party, points out that the missile torpedo boats of the Skjold class will provide a strengthened capacity for the enforcement, territorial security and support for civil operations, and considers this to be particularly important in the north.’ I would also quote something that General Gullow Gjeseth said to Dagbladet on April 3, 2001: ‘The vessel is a very suitable anti-invasion vessel with, inter alia, the new target rocket from Kongsberg. That it can also be used for other things in peacetime, is clear, but it may be shooting sparrows with rockets." The Chief of Defense, Sigurd Frisvold, says in a chronicle in Aftenposten, April 18, 2001: ‘I have therefore not found it possible to give new MTBs priority within a comprehensive resource and operational assessment. The tasks that remain when the threat of marine invasion has been drastically reduced, including: sovereignty and coastal surveillance, can be resolved by continuing the updated MTBs we have today.’ It should be a signal for most people, including the majority in this Chamber, when the SV and the head of defence stand together. I would believe that this applies today too, a few years later. There is no need for these boats that are the motivation of the majority who wear their bucket pants today. There's something else, and this "something else" we can wonder about. I don't want to wonder any more about this, because it's not fitting from this pulpit, but just suggesting, like many others, that it might be so that the need to give assignments to Norwegian companies might have something to do with the matter. It's probably an honest thing in case, if you could be open about it. It's not the majority, and it makes the matter problematic. $4.7 billion is a lot of money. And they could give many jobs in areas where today there are both unemployment and unsolved tasks. I know about up to several areas where this money could get along well. But this is what the majority chooses to ignore. What's left is the need to use these boats to protect the north. Yes, yes – it is a rich country in which we live, and this is expensive emergency work, as Today’s Business Today writes. So there was this thing about the economy in the defense. The defense is in the midst of a comprehensive conversion. Many stones are snuff, many are uncertain about the future. The defence asks in its comment on the proposal that the project be postponed due to uncertainty at budgetary level in the future. Then we see that the government is adding to a reduced defence budget next year, and that there are specifically agreed investments to the Army that have to be postponed. Then it might be timely to ask what kind of extra resources the majority has been planning to scramble in order to get this going together for the next long term. It's going to be interesting to see. I would like to quote a little bit more from the chronicle that Sigurd Frisvold wrote in the Evening Post on 18 April 2001: ‘The cost of acquiring and operating new MTBs will have such serious consequences for either the Air Force or the Army that we cannot prioritise this’. SV does not want to go into this project, because it is both unnecessary in relation to the needs we have, and because there is already a new economic underbalance in the Defence before this project is started. And this should be seen in the context of the long-term proposition to be submitted to spring. But of course it will reduce the chance that these boats would be adopted. I also mentioned the proposal to SV to postpone the whole case and to deal with it in connection with the next long-term proposal. Finally, I would like to point out a unanimous comment from the Committee on the challenges we are really facing in our major maritime sovereignty areas, such as challenges. concern the risk of marine casualties and breakdowns, with increased petroleum activity in the north and the transport of crude oil and spent nuclear fuel. The Committee calls for a full review of all these challenges, as well as the development of a comprehensive management strategy. The Committee asks that this be done in the context of the long-term proposal. This is a joyful signal that I am asking the Council of State to notice. It's just so sad that the decision on these missile torpedo boats is coming right now. We could need a few billions to meet the real challenges, for example. we all know that we don't have tug capacity north of Harstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e368	The representative of Kjetil Bjørklund has mentioned the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e374	I feel the need for a line to the SV's representative when he presses the head of defense to his chest. It's actually a little bit special from part SV. And why does he do that? The defence policy spokesman in SV is not exactly known to support the defence leadership. He goes against the next case that we're going to have, which is about white phosphorus, and they were against class bombs. So I'm a little surprised that Bjørklund is now just as pressing the head of defense to his chest and also the article that was in the evening post in 2001. So my question is whether there's another agenda. Can SV's representative tell me where SV supports anything in the defense? They cut the defense budget pretty hard, so I'd like to hear where Bjørklund at all supports something in the defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e379	I could mention a lot of issues where SV goes for the defense and the defense's dispositions. In fact, in most budgets, SV will spend 25 billion dollars on the defense. $25 billion is quite a lot of money. But SV will have a defence that aims to address the real challenges we face, which do not have the main purpose of targeting international operations on the other side of the globe, but which may concentrate mainly on the challenges we face in our areas of sovereignty, such as: what we had in the past, the huge sea areas and the challenges we are facing there, which we are actually not taking sufficiently seriously in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e384	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e387	The Government requests the agreement to order five new Skold class missile torpedo boats and the adaptation of the KNM Skold test vessel. At the request of the US Navy, KNM Skold was lent to the United States from the autumn of 2001 to the autumn of 2002. A test programme showed that the Skjold concept is a relevant concept in the coastal waters of the United States, and it got a lot of praise. The shield class shall perform surface operations as part of the maritime defence exercise of maritime control in peace, crisis and war. The shield class becomes a powerful, mobile and flexible vessel, capable of performing a number of military tasks in the national defence. Marine characteristics, as well as navigation and propulsion systems are optimised for rapid operations along the coast and in narrow inland waters, but it has also demonstrated the ability to move rapidly in open sea in poor weather. Features such as high mobility and modern link systems for the exchange of command, control and information make vessels useful, for example, to support special operations and to protect off-shore and offshore petroleum installations. In peacetime, ships will assert sovereignty and provide the necessary support for the exercise of authority and jurisdiction. Vessels may participate in, conduct, search and rescue operations and provide rapid support to civil and other State agencies and institutions entrusted with the tasks and responsibilities of coastal areas. It is the qualities of the Christian People's Party that are of particular importance to the work of overall social security, which is crucial to our country. The Christian People's Party has noticed that the defense has been in a challenging negotiating situation because the suppliers have been familiar with Storting's decision to acquire the Skjold class. In addition, suppliers have felt relatively confident in getting the contract, which has made the defence negotiations more difficult. Substantial resources have been used to negotiate the existing contract and the negotiated result appears to be as good a result as possible. It has been focused on the fact that the annual operating and maintenance costs for six vessels will be 150-160 million. kr, including expenditure on personnel and the operation of materials. The operating costs that will be incurred will vary depending on the level of activity of the vessels. The Christian People's Party has noticed that the Chief of Defense's recommendation provided that the amount of DKK 118 billion is kept, and that this level continues for the next four years. It is important to remember that Norway has seven times greater sovereignty over sea areas than land. The Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea are among the world's most productive sea areas. The climate and darkness conditions make the areas particularly vulnerable, and the risk of shipping accidents and accidents, increased petroleum activities in the north, the transport of crude oil and spent nuclear fuel must be met by offensive measures. This makes clear the need for a full review of all the challenges in these maritime areas, including security policy, as well as the development of a comprehensive management strategy for these vast areas. This needs to be emphasised in the work on the next long-term proposition. In this context, the Christian People's Party believes it is important to look at the overall ship structure of the Maritime Defense and its operation. The Christian People's Party points out that the missile torpedo boats of the Skjold class will provide a strengthened capacity for sovereignty enforcement, territorial security and support for civil operations, and believes that this is particularly important in the northern regions. The construction of the boats offers considerable opportunities for Norwegian industry, in the first row of Umoe Mandal and Kongsberg. It's about skills and jobs, but it's also about ring-effects for a whole part of the country. The representative Croslid will elaborate on this in his article. The Christian People's Party endorses the acquisition of the six vessels in total included in the structure adopted by the Stortinget in the treatment of Innst. S. No 342 and St. Prp. No 45 for 2000-2001, when the Stortinget took a decision to acquire Skjold-class MTB. It is sometimes in its place to remember that it is the Stortinget that also lays the framework for the Defense. Based on an overall assessment of social security, including our marine areas, the Christian People's Party supports the cost framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e408	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e411	You are now trying with all your heart to find problems for these boats, and those are fine boats, that's not it. But they're essentially intended to handle invasion. The representative Wisløff Nilssen talks about the oil installations, rescue operations and the challenges in the north. Does the representative believe that these boats are the best tool for carrying out these tasks? Then something is said about employment. If employment and industrial policy are the motivation for procurement, does Wisløff Nilssen believe that this is the best we could spend SEK 4.675 billion more?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e418	I see these boats as a whole: in the overall social security policy and throughout the work that is so important for social security to work in our country. After all, it has been argued with great weight that civil and military cooperation is to be achieved. That's why I see these boats as a great asset also in the way of ensuring social security. So the question of this is a good way to spend money on employment and work. I would rather turn it the other way around: I think it is very important to take care of the competence that the country has in relation to the defence industry, and at least we have done so by building these boats. How to continue competence is also something we need to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e425	Part of this debate that we have now is about whether the new MTBs can at all be functional with the new defence that we have. There will also be a question for the representative Wisløff Nilssen: What tasks are the Defence actually facing, and what tasks are the Maritime Defense specifically facing? We have heard in this debate that we have large sea areas for which we are responsible, actually seven times the size of our territory. That means we have to have a marine defense that can work, and we have to have a vessel that can also be used and flexible in that context. Does the representative Wisløff Nilssen see that there may be an increased need for this type of ship in a situation where the stationary lookout posts – if it is possible to call it that – along our coast are either laid down or put in a mill bag? And if you don't have the necessary mobile devices, how else will you secure this kind of maritime surveillance?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e432	I think the tasks of maritime defence are very important in the build-up of social security, precisely because the sea areas are seven times larger than the land areas, and there is a lot of work in terms of safety at sea that remains. That's why I see that the type of boats that the MTBs are can be flexible and important in use along the whole coast. That is why, in the context of the long-term proposition, we must also look at the totality and get very good social security work in relation to our marine areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e437	I want to go back to the employment perspective, which Wisløff Nilssen is a little concerned about, that it is important to maintain skills. Yes, it is clear that maintaining skills is important. But is there no other way to maintain competence than to invest almost DKK 5 billion in boats intended for invasion, which is not a prominent threat?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e442	I get the hint of stiff neck hair when someone talks about employment – for me, ‘employment’ is something that one kind of puts people in to have them busy with something. And to me, the work done through Umoe Mandal and on Kongsberg is very important. But I see that we in Norway may have to discuss in the future how we can help the defence industry we have here in this country to continue to be a driving force and a spearhead. Maybe those companies are gradually getting a little bit small. It is also something that we politicians and especially in the Committee on Defence must look at further. I think it is very important that the boats are built, that we maintain the competence and develop it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e448	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e451	The Central Party believes that one of the defence's important tasks in peacetime is the ability to assert a credible sovereignty. Norway has seven times greater sovereignty over sea areas than our land areas, and the acquisition of five new Skjold class missile torpedo boats for Defence is therefore an important contribution both to ensuring the possibility of sovereignty enhancement, to ensuring the defence capability and also to a clear continuation of previous decision making on the issue. Norway is in many ways an energy storm power and is therefore also particularly vulnerable to it strategically. Protection of oil installations and other equipment related to our oil and gas activities will be very important in the years to come. We are going to need skills, personnel and materials that can also ensure overall good and credible coastal monitoring. The presence in Norwegian sea areas of both the Coast Guard and the Maritime Defence Department is of great importance for Norway’s position as a national. 90 pst. of Norway’s marine areas are actually north of Brønnøysund, and there are also large natural resources such as fish, oil and gas in this area. A strong maritime defence with a sufficient number of ships in continuous operation is important for our claim and our sovereignty related to those areas. The Vulnerability Committee was also concerned with the sea areas of the country and strongly warned against a reduction in the kind of coastal and marine surveillance that could easily be achieved. The center party looks at the construction of five new Skjold-class missile torpedo boats as a large, but also important, investment. However, I find it worth noting that the committee today does not explicitly accept the kind of savings the ministry has provided in this context. The Central Party will stress that the acquisition of five new MTBs should not be at the expense of other important tasks in the Defence, and we are critical of a proposed saving that is to be done almost exclusively at the expense of the Army, as outlined in response from the Council of State to the Stortinget. Therefore, the Committee has not chosen to take note of that type of savings. It is a question that is therefore open and one that has to come back in a budgetary context. It is also of great importance that the construction of Shield-class missile torpedo boats is speedily launched. We have discussed the new MTB structure over many years, and the project is of great importance both for Umoe Mandal and for Kongsberg. The centre party is also pleased that the Ministry of Defence has negotiated industrial cooperation agreements for the foreign parts of the acquisition and that suppliers have committed themselves to the recycling of material by the Norwegian defence industry for over DKK 1 billion over 10 years. The Central Party believes that ships in the Shield Class together with an updated Hauk class MTB will be a good element in the Naval Defence capability to exercise control of sea areas in both crisis situations, peacetime and, where appropriate, wartime. The centre party believes that, in the future, there will also be a need for a clear and current maritime defence related to the increased risk of both shipping accidents, breakdowns, increased petroleum activity in the north and the transport of both crude oil and spent nuclear fuel along our waters. The centre party has also noted that the defence itself and individuals from the defence management have gone out and had strong counter-conceptions towards the conclusion of contracts and decisions on the acquisition of new MTBs. I have to say, considering that the MTBs were involved in the discussions of the defence structure in 2001, that I am surprised at the kind of rematch that some of the Defense's own here put forward. I therefore agree with the representative Nybakk that there is starting to be a significant irritation in some of the parties in the Stortinget that there is not enough respect here for the decisions the Stortinget has actually made. It is also clear from the Central Party that the long-term plan we will be discussing next year is to be a long-term plan without tiresome rematches from the Defence Department's own. Otherwise, I have respect for the fact that there may be a different view in the hall than the centre party regarding the acquisition of this type of ship, and I respect the fact that SV is against it. But I have to say that it is with a little wonder that I register the alliances and the truth witnesses that SV today brings in the hall to oppose this type of project.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e468	An almost unanimous rise is going to stand behind today's decision to build missile torpedo boats of the Skjold class. The decision also provides for coastal people, maritime-related organisations, coastal police officers and maritime business organisations. In addition to the Coast Guard and the Rescue Service, the decision on new MTBs is likely to have the widest potential for any material project in the Defence. It is therefore striking that the head of defense and his immediate attackers continue to fight MTBs, despite the fact that building has previously been adopted by the government and the government. The manner in which the head of defence and his closest appearance may indicate that they do not fully understand that the overall governance and framework of defence are adopted by political authorities, not by the military. Instead of accepting the decisions taken, the head of defence chooses to take part in repeated attempts to counter the MTBs. If the last play was meant to be a provocation to the Stortinget, it was successful. It is not often that there is such obvious distrust and dissatisfaction with the politicians. I find it incomprehensible that the defense chief and his closest one until the degrees point to the defense's maritime capabilities. Even with new acquisitions, the Coast Guard and the Marine only maintain a minimum structure, and it's obvious to most of us that we need new MTBs. Instead of attacking the operational structure, the head of defence and the head of the military selection of the chief of defence should give priority to cutting the support structure. There are a number of areas to pick up funds from, if that's what it's about to do. For example, as I understand it, the military selection of the chief of defense is being burdened with the defence by between 150 million. NOK 300 million and SEK 300 million. NOK in expenditure, plus that it binds personnel resources that should instead operate and convert. Similarly, the disputed and unnecessary area of the East will be a huge billion-dollar sluice. It is also billions to save on stopping building projects in Defence Building, and there is still an ungained profit of DKK 2 to 4 billion in the Defence Logistics Organisation. In addition, the head of defense can suggest the only truly sensible thing about the Garden, that instead of building new camps north of Oslo, one moves to the very modernized Heistandmoen, also the one just a short hour away from the capital. The point is that there is enough money in the defense system for MTBs. It thus escalates hollowly when the head of defense makes a smaller material project his biggest problem. I have to say that it is obvious that the projects that the head of defence is most often opposed are projects in the Maritime Defense. Random? Nope. The defence is primarily to maintain peace, to assert sovereignty and to exercise authority. Only if necessary shall the Defense be used in war. The advantage of the Naval Defense units is that they are present where Norway is picking up its wealth and where the potential conflicts exist, i.e. at sea. In addition, they may carry out search and rescue operations, and they may provide support to the other state agencies that have tasks and responsibilities in coastal areas. The vessel we are discussing today has sea-going characteristics and navigation and propulsion systems adapted to rapid operations along the coast, in narrow inland waters and on the open sea. In other words, it is equally suitable for the job that is the defence job no. 1 in peacetime, as it is suitable for operations in modern combat environments. Norwegian maritime defence is among the world’s best in coastal operations, and Norwegian maritime capabilities are relevant and requested. Norway has also been using submarines, frigates, MTBs, mining vessels, marine hunters and mine divers for various missions for many years. In the future, the ability to stand up for our allies and for the UN will be even more improved. The new coaster command is being completed, and new frigates are under construction. [[The President clubs.]] I have a little more left, but I'll just say in the end: if the defense believes it is necessary to cut, Stortinget expects not to cut itself in the maritime structure or in the operational operation, but in the support structure and in construction operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e498	In a Decision of 13 June 2001, the Stortinget adopted under Roman Numeral Decision in paragraph 4 that Skjold-class MTBs should be phased in with six vessels. Today, a broad majority in this House ensures that this decision becomes a reality. I love it as a defense friend and as a southerner. The boats that secure their place in our modern defence structure are today unique. There are boats that will be a very central part of Norwegian defence for many years to come. Norway has a unique geographical situation. We have huge sea areas that need to be monitored and patrolled. The MTB Shield with its large speed resources and stealth capacity is almost tailored to this type of task. Together with the new frigates, they are helping to make our coast safer. Not least, we now have completely new opportunities to patrol the huge sea areas in the north. However, the new MTBs are also unique in a different sense, and it is that they are applicable in very many areas, from the peaceful part of the scale to war – from rescue operations to modern warfare. They will also be able to develop into one of Norway’s leading niche capacities in international operations. Today’s MTBs have served as late as this year as escorts for the Gibraltar Strait of Ship Traffic in the ‘Active Endeavour’ operation. With the new boats, Norway will be able to contribute even more, and they will do an important job in the forward-looking defence of Norway. I'm sure the Minister of Defence will be able to come up with this. The honorary Gunnar Sønsteby had an insightful article in the Evening Post on Saturday. He writes that the greatest danger to the defense is ‘all those who want a greater defence than there is the will to pay for’. I have also perceived that there are some who fear that these boats will not be used. I feel confident that it will not happen. It's our job as politicians to ensure the future operation of the ships. Of course, we should take Sønsteby’s concerns seriously. So do we. The whole so-called implementation proposition that was adopted during the spring session last year was to take this challenge seriously. In the next long-term defence document, we will continue to take these important issues seriously. We can't have a military structure that's bigger than what can be financed. However, when we say yes to MTBs now, it also means a yes to operations in the future. I am a hot defender of the Defence's new boats. However, in addition to the safety policy argument, there is another good reason for these vessels to be acquired: they are Norwegian. At a time when Norwegian industry is struggling and unemployment is rising, there is something we should not forget: the MTBs are Norwegian high-tech international. We can see the beginning of an industrial adventure on the South and on Kongsberg. I am pleased about that, and I welcome it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e511	It is quite right that more people have been involved today: it was in June 2001 that the Storting decided to acquire the Skjold class. The majority also decided that the Skjold class should be there when we phase out the Hauk class. That's a good reason. High-speed craft, such as Shield, go hand in hand with frigates and Coast Guard in an overall ability to perform sea operations. Seagoing operations are primarily carried out by frigates and coastguards. Shields and MTBs have coastal operations and operations in fjords. We have half of Europe's west coast as a Norwegian west coast. We have very special national conditions that make us need more vessels than most NATO countries. But despite this reality, the reality is that we're going down on the number of ships in the Naval Defense. So once, when Shield is going to replace Hauk, we're going down from 14 to six ships, and we're in danger of having to evaluate other classes of ships. We've already given one submarine class, the Copper, to Poland, while we've kept the other, Ula. It reduces the number, but it's a limit on how much it's right to decrease. The main reason for this in June 2001 was good. We need both sovereignty enforcement and to support civilian missions, and in fact to carry out NATO missions – except that we didn't know that then. It is true that in April 2001, the Chief of Defense and others questioned whether Skjold would have a role in the future that was sufficiently prioritised, because it is absolutely right that we should go away from being an invasion defense. But it's not just the Maritime Defense that goes away from being. This concerns our entire defense, including the Army, the Air Force, everyone has been invasion defence, and now we have new roles. Then came September 11th, and then the MTBs got a new role. The MTBs have been in the Mediterranean on anti-terrorist missions for NATO until October this year. There is, of course, a new role, which has nothing to do with invasion defence, but which has to do with dealing with new threats. Our four MTBs in the Mediterranean did a job no frigate could do, because when the threat is a rubber boat or other that might have bursts on board, which threatens civil shipping, one must have the ability to pace and maneuver. And it doesn't have a frigate. There are MTBs —solid patrol boats, as it is called in NATO — another role. And so while the plans in NATO before 11 September 2001 questioned whether this type of ship was needed, it is they in NATO, SACEUR, who are driving reinforcements, who are now asking for such vessels. I also want to add that when the United States had its biggest exercise in many, many years, the Millennium Challenge in the summer of 2002, there was one contribution they requested from Norway, and that was the one Skjold vessel we have. It was used for a new role, non-anti-invasion. It was used for the landing of special forces, of which we know we need more. It was used to launch small UAVs, unmanned flying surveillance vessels, which supported the special forces in landing. And is that something we know about future operations, whether they're Norwegian or in the direction of NATO, is that you want to operate together, sea, air, army. Special Forces, Maritime Defense and UAVs together are the ‘roll’ of the future and have nothing to do with Invasion Defense. I must also say that precisely because the Storting has decided to buy this ship, and precisely because I believe in the role of this ship, it would be a little strange if we did not buy it, when the country that is most concerned with the modernisation of the defense, the United States, has this as one of three possible candidates for forward-looking vessel acquisitions. The fact that we buy it gives us an increased opportunity for others to buy it. But everyone who knows me and my reputation in the industry knows that I had never bought this ship for industry. That's not exactly my image. Then I just have to say that I am very pleased with the support of the Storting. I am very pleased that the Stortinge stands by its previous decisions, and in the long-term proposition, the Implementation Proposition, St.prp. No 55, adopted by the Stortinget in June 2002, was MTB Skjold. What we're doing now is we're taking a larger part of the investments in this period and a smaller part of the investments in the next period – more money for other things in the next period than intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e526	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e529	It is true, as the Council of State said, that in 2001 there was a decision on MTB Skold, and that it was also part of the defence agreement between the Workers' Party and the government parties when we dealt with St.prp. No 55 in 2002. The reasons that have been given have been the exercise of sovereignty over our seas in peace and war, including, among other things. The Bastisen was very concerned that the Maritime Defense is an important operational resource to monitor our long-range and vulnerable coasts. In addition, this is Norwegian technology of an international class that is also being requested abroad, and MTB Skold is also being requested by NATO. There have been questions about whether we are able to operate MTB Shields. Let me then stress that it is our job as defence politicians to ensure that MTB Shield is operated. It is also true that, in general, it is our task that there is consistency between structure, volume and expenditure in defence. And I want to ask the Council of State to clarify that she is actually aiming to ensure that these are operated.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e536	Of course we're going to operate the MTB Shield. Today we operate the Hauk class MTBs, 14 vessels. The manning of Shield is no larger than the manning of Hauk. So we have 14 vessels, and when Hauk is phased out and Shield becomes the only high-speed vessel, we have six. If the manning is not larger in the Shield class than in the Hauk class, it means that with today's level we can operate the Skjold class. And of course, we're adding up to that. It is important that when we prioritize the resources of the Maritime Defence Agency, we have the perspective that both the frigates, like the seagoing vessels along with the Coast Guard, and the coastal vessels, Skold or Hauk, which today, will be given operational means, and that these are the most priority tasks of the Maritime Defence Agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e541	As I mentioned, and as the Council of State itself has included in the proposition, there are eleven important projects for the Army that must now be shifted because we are going to build MTBs. So these have to be completely depreciated in time or in the worst case. Why has the Council of State prioritised Shield in front of these important projects for the Army? Is she not aware that the Army does not receive the material they are intended for, for which they have of course taken into account? As I also mentioned in my post, the Progress Party is very concerned about the content of the contract, and the same points to the Council of State in the proposal. If the Council of State is concerned about this, does she see that this can have consequences, not least for the long-term cost framework?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e548	It is true that some projects in the Army are being pushed on. There's a lot of logic behind it. When we adopted St.prp. No 55 in the spring of 2002, that was as far as I can remember, assuming that 800 million. kr. the shield investment was to be taken over this period and the remainder was to be taken over the next period. That is, in fact, approx. Four billion. We have a database of investment projects in Defense, and the order of them will depend on what we consider to be the most urgent, and what is most important to get started. The army projects that are now being pushed on are projects that we still want to implement. But because the dimensioning of the Army is an important theme in the next four-year proposition, which is submitted to spring, it is also right to have the volume of these investments adapted to the volume we're going to have on the Army. None of the projects being pushed on are critical to the safety of our personnel in relation to the responsibility we have in international operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e555	Yeah, there it was on the table. So there is a desire to contribute more to international operations under the auspices of NATO, which is the real reason for buying these boats. But there is nothing about it in the comments from the Committee. It says about sovereignty enforcement and territorial security and not one word about international operations. It doesn't say much about it in the proposition as well, but it's at least mentioned there. I'll leave that theme ahead, but I'll ask for something else. There is a note in the setting that I will refer to: ‘The Committee would point out that Norway has seven times greater sovereignty over sea areas than land. The Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea are among the world's most productive sea areas. Climate and nightlife make the areas particularly vulnerable, and the risk of shipping accidents and accidents, increased petroleum activities in the north, the transport of crude oil and spent nuclear fuel must be met by offensive measures. This makes clear the need for a full review of all the challenges in these maritime areas, including security policy, as well as the development of a comprehensive management strategy...». I would like to ask the Council of State: how does the Council of State think that this wish of the entire committee can be achieved in the context of the work on the next long-term proposal? It is not mentioned in the premise of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e568	Of course, we should touch on the demand committee, in the four-year plan submitted to spring. This has been one of the things that the Defense itself has been most concerned about. However, as regards the possibility of marine casualties, inter alia: in all these vessels up and down the Norwegian coast, not only the defence resources but also other resources need to be deployed. Other departments are also included here. The Ministry of Fisheries, and the departments of the Ministry of Fisheries, which are responsible here. That's why it's also nice to be able to say that one of the propositions I made at the start of the meeting was a new towing vessel to increase safety at sea in our northern regions. And the defence vessel KNM ‘Valkyria’ is now newly upgraded with initial investments to make it even more suitable as a towing vessel for the largest vessels. Both the new coastguard ship K/V «Svalbard» and the other part of the fleet of the Naval Defence are just at their disposal even in the event of accidents, including the monitoring capacity we have in order to detect them early.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e573	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e576	The decision to acquire an additional five Skold-class vessels was taken by the Stortinget in June 2001. Negotiations have since taken place between the suppliers and the defence, and agreement has been reached on price and terms. The overall framework for the construction project will be approx. SEK 4.6 billion. Sea missiles shall be acquired in addition. There is a broad majority of the Stortinget, all parties outside SV, who agree to the acquisition and start-up of the Skjold class under the contract negotiated by the Defence with the three suppliers Umoe, Kongsberg Defence and Aerospace and Armaris. When the first vessel of the Skjold class was delivered to the Defence in 1999, the evaluation produced very good results. The shield class will be a very mobile, powerful and flexible struggle. It will strengthen our ability to operate in coastal waters, while the vessels are suitable for international operations. Vessels are adapted to a modern combat environment and have properties and systems that are optimal for rapid operations. Modern ship systems may cooperate with aeroplanes and ships nationally and in NATO. Vessels will also be able to play a central role in peacetime. It is gratifying that the vessels are now being built. Not only will this strengthen the maritime defence of the whole of Norway. The construction of the boats will provide significant opportunities for Norwegian industry, primarily for Umoe Mandal and Kongsberg Defence and Aerospace. The fact that ships are now being built is very important for maintaining experience, capacity and jobs in Norway. Furthermore, it is essential for the building of skills in our country. In the repurchase agreement that has been concluded, there is also a high potential for the Norwegian defence industry. The fact that we have knowledge and qualities in our own industry here in Norway just turns out in the construction of the Skjold class MTBs. KNM Skold was lent to the US Navy for one year from the autumn of 2001 to the autumn of 2002 for testing and use in drills. The vessel was subjected to extensive tests by the Special Warfare Command and the American Coast Guard. The intention was to see if this vessel could fit into a renewed American concept of national defence. The interest for KNM Skjold was great from the very beginning, and the US Navy has now this summer just chosen the Norwegian Skjold concept. It's a quality sign that Americans are just choosing this concept. It provides an exciting opportunity for Umoe Mandal to participate in the US Maritime Defence Project based on knowledge acquired in the Norwegian MTB project. The US Navy awarded three contracts for the preliminary design of its new ship class called “Littoral Combat Ship”. One of the three winners is Raytheon, who has a design based on the new Norwegian MTBs. Raytheon is leading industrial cooperation between four American companies and Umoe Mandal in Norway. For Umoe Mandal, this contract is therefore a breakthrough for the export of advanced Norwegian fast boat technology adapted to marine military tasks. Umoe Mandal will be responsible for central parts of the design of the new vessel. This ensures employment for Norwegian engineers in the first place. Umoe is also working to participate in further work on system design, detailed design and construction of prototype vessels with continued engineering efforts and transfer of production technology to the relevant US yard. The acquisition of new Skjold class MTBs is a comprehensive project that will have a major impact on our maritime defence and on maintaining capacity and employment in Norway. At the same time, it is important that we recognise that there is considerable uncertainty about how a clear person can implement the acquisition within the cost framework underpinned. There are financial risks specifically related to the delivery and errors that appear during the warranty period. The external quality assurance has taken into account to ensure such risks. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that attention is given to measures that can reduce the uncertainty of the project. With this background, the Christian People's Party agrees that the Ministry of Defence can start the construction of Skjold class missile torpedo boats within the stated cost framework of NOK 4,675 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e591	In 1993 I entered the Stortinget for the first time. They were already working to build MTBs in Mandal. Ten years in a political life is long. As politicians, we are impatient, and we prefer things to happen overnight in relation to what we want. That is why I fully agree with the rapporteur today when he says that it is a day of joy both in terms of defence policy and in terms of industrial development here in the country. Finally, it turned out that there were tools in the government toolbox, also in today's society. I'm not in the Defence Committee, and based on what I've heard from both the Committee and the Council of State, I'd like to focus a little on what's going on in industrial policy. In my article, I will try to focus on industrial development and skills building in Norway. Norway is today a high-cost country. It's a highly skilled country, and we'll live in the future by delivering and producing technology that we're good at and that we can. Today we see a dramatic decline in our industry. Everyone is talking about the importance of the industry, and that we have to make ourselves less oil addicts – everyone except SV. In SV they are against oil and gas production. They just want to spend the money. What we can say today is that the Socialist Left has no industrial policy at all. They're against the construction of MTBs. They are opposed to oil and gas activities. They are against hydroelectric expansion in Norway. They are against the EEA Agreement. They're just to spend the money that other responsible parties have provided to the country. It's a well-known rhetoric we hear from the Socialist Left Party today. Here they use the head of defense and FO as the witness of truth. In other cases, the others — according to their rhetoric. SV is the reinforcement of the development of a better welfare society. I think SV will have to show the cards sooner or later. There will be what SV really stands for in industrial policy, and I look forward to that day. Many years of fighting and labor too many give today's returns. Today the pass comes, and it is not to hide that this is a pre-Christmas press, for example. to the Mandal Society and the Kongsberg Society. Umoe Mandal and Kongsberg Defence and Aerospace have shown that they are best compared to the technology they are now going to produce. They have had patient workers who have been in doubt for many years. Not least, they have had a patient owner, who has invested in this, who has taken great risks in relation to the economy, and who is now being counted against it. I really hope that they will now succeed in relation to the work they are facing. We are going to support and decorate the Government from the Labour Party when they have done a good job. I'm sorry that this is the first time I've been to the pulpit and done it in this period. I believe it says a lot about the government's policy, but at least they should boast about this matter. I am sure that today's decision will open doors to both Umoe Mandal and Kongsberg. This will lead to further industrial development in those places for which we should all be happy and for which the Labour Party is naturally very happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e606	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e609	I have yet to boast of the representative from the Workers' Party. Contracting five Shield-class missile torpedo boats and a technical update and adaptation of the KNM ‘Shud’ prototype will provide enhanced sovereignty enforcement, territorial security and support for civil operations. With this contraction, the Maritime Defense will deploy vessels that are some of the most technologically advanced that are ever built. The shield class will be built as air cushion catamarans in composite material. Together with other design conditions, this will give vessels with low signatures to most sensors and weapon systems. The yard of Umoe Mandal, which has built the prototype and which is to build the remaining five vessels, is world-class. This is best illustrated by the fact that the prototype is the world's fastest marine vessel, with a top speed of about 60 knots, and by the fact that Umoe Mandal is one of three consortia competing for a contract with the US Navy on ships for coastal defence of the United States. The fact that the Storting now approves the purchase of the Shield class increases the possibility that Raytheon, where Umoe Mandal is included, is preferred in the United States. The project ‘New MTB structure’ was adopted at the time of the Stockholm process of Innst. S. No 191 for 1994-95. The project includes the development of a new type of MTB and the updating of the existing 14 Hauk class MTBs of the marine. The project has been marked by considerable uncertainty for Umoe Mandal and the other suppliers. Parties have changed their positions since 1995 both on the importance of new MTBs and on the progress of the project. A release of the project will now mean the completion of the entire project and the phasing out of the MTB weapon as such. Umoe Mandal has been in deficit for several years and depending on his long-term owner. The way the yard owners have handled the situation deserves praise. It's equally clear that no one can lose about 2 million over a long period of time. kr per. month and still bet on something that is constantly being pushed out on time. The construction of five new MTBs is, for the right, a very good defence case and is not done in the interests of employment measures, but in the interests of defence. However, it is a pleasant side-effect that 200 workers with unique skills remain in the defence industry. This is a happy day for the Defense. And it's a good Norwegian day for suppliers of high technology to the Norwegian defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e622	Of course, as defence politicians, we are responsible for the overall security policy. We are also responsible for all three arms. We are responsible for their increasing cooperation, and for trying to get a defence that is adapted to today's threats and the threats of the future – this has been said once again from this pulpit today. Then I have a few comments to SV, because the strangest argument in this debate actually comes from SV. This concerns the claim that MTB Shield is built for an invasion defence and can only be used as a weapon in an invasion defence. This should have appeared in an FFI seminar a few days ago, including: The brigader neck held an article. Now I don't know about people from the FFI, or, for that matter, the bridesmaid's neck, has been aboard the MTB Shield, but it's been signed. If there's something that's impressed me, it's exactly that ship, with a very unique technology that makes it useful to exercise control over our marine areas, civil as a military force, that strengthens maritime defence as an operational resource in civil surveillance and civil-military cooperation to strengthen security in relation to vulnerability. So the SV's attitude to the development of Norwegian competence and jobs. We've been out for that before, but today I think it goes far beyond the line. The fact that Norwegian jobs produce something that Norwegian defence and NATO actually needs gives real hope to Norwegian industry and Norwegian industrial research and development, also in the future. The fact that we have research competence and technological competence, that we have a defence industry in Norway, is also a security policy argument. That's what security policy is, too. It provides security, that is, and Umoe Mandal and Kongsberg Defence and Aerospace and a host of subcontracting companies will thus be strengthened by this Decision in terms of research, development and employment. So finally, once again, when we make our decision today that we are preparing the start of the construction of the MTB shield, we also have to keep in mind that these boats are going to operate, so that, when we come to the treatment of the long-term proposition, we also take that into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e633	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 237]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e649	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given following the speeches of the main speakers from each group and on contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e658	Today, the size takes a position on a Document No. Eight proposals from the Socialist Left. The proposal promotes a ban on the use of smoke grenades containing white phosphorus in shooting areas in Norway. The Defence Committee has examined the proposal with the concern and respect both for the environment and for defence. As a politician, I have to assess and balance different concerns and different issues. The examination of Document No The 8 proposal may have created the impression that those who do not support the proposal are not as environmentally friendly as those who support it. This impression is not correct. The majority of the Committee has therefore underlined the environmental challenges of the use of white phosphorus. The defence has operational tasks. That's the way it is, and that's how I want it to still be. In some cases, in order to be an operational unit, the activities of the Defence Agency are in contrast to purely environmental considerations. This may also be the case with the use of white phosphorus grenades. Let me therefore briefly say that used correctly represents grenades with white phosphorus low risk to the environment. A challenge for the environment will only arise if particles of white phosphorus are left unchanged in water. The particles of white phosphorus will then have a toxic effect on organisms that absorb these particles. In this way, white phosphorus can pose an environmental threat. The use of white phosphorus grenades can be a challenge. This is where the political question, that is, a question that requires political considerations, arises. The political question is whether the risk of the use of white phosphorus is worth taking in order for the defence to have its fighting ability. The use of white phosphorus in so-called smoke grenades is intended to form a smoke cloud which shall primarily shield strengths against visibility, dazzling and possibly insulating an opponent, and such smoke cloud may also characterise different strategic and tactical objectives. The majority of the Committee has concluded that the enhancement of the operational capability of the defence is so important that the use of white phosphorus can continue to be authorised. To this end, however, the majority of the Committee recognises the potential environmental hazard arising from the misuse of white phosphorus grenades. This is also something the Defense itself is aware of, with the result that a working group is set up to address the challenge. The Committee considers it positive that the Government and Defence take seriously the potential environmental hazard of white phosphorus. Unfortunately, there is no comprehensive alternative to white phosphorus, and it must therefore be an objective to provide an alternative to white phosphorus, as it should clearly be an important objective to replace the use of white phosphorus. There is no reason to believe that viable alternatives to white phosphorus will come sailing by themselves. Therefore, in order to find an alternative to white phosphorus, efforts on alternative substances need to be intensified, as the Committee strongly encourages the Ministry of Defence to address them. For an alternative to white phosphorus would appear, the majority of the Defence Committee is prepared to reconsider its view on the use of white phosphorus.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e677	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e680	The majority in the committee, all with the exception of the SV and the Centre Party, say in the setting that there are no alternatives that are satisfactory in relation to the protection required by Norwegian forces during practice. But we know that there are alternatives that are satisfactory for some of our allies, for example. American and German forces. Can the representative Lund tell me what particular reasons are there for Norwegian forces to use a different level of protection than any of our allies?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e692	There has been no discussion of alternatives during the examination of this matter in the Defence Committee. We have received a response from the Ministry of Defence to which we relate, and in that answer they indicate that there are different alternatives to white phosphorus as a smoke agent, but satisfactory replacements do not exist. That is what I have been told by the rapporteur. However, I note that the representative of Bjørklund in the newspaper interview in the Nations on 15 October shows that one of the alternatives is produced by a Norwegian ammunition factory at Raufoss. I do not understand why Bjørklund did not provide the information when we discussed the matter in the committee, and documented this. Obviously, then the majority's view of this was quite different. But that has not been achieved, and we have been dealing with the answers we have received from the Ministry of Defence, and we have to expect them to be correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e697	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e700	The rapporteur has now gone through the facts of the matter and gave a clear description of the issues related to the use of white phosphorus. For my part, I would like to stress that phosphorus ammunition or smoke ammunition is used, among other things. to protect their own strengths against visibility, to prevent protection and also to mark targets. For military personnel to learn how to use weapons with white phosphorus, it is important to practice with this type of ammunition. In addition, check-shooting is necessary to ensure the quality of the weapons stored. The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have concluded that the use of phosphorus ammunition must be prohibited in Norwegian shooting areas. In the right we can't participate in such a ban. For us, the consideration of the lives of Norwegian soldiers comes first. The use of white phosphorus in Norwegian shooting areas is something that has been in the media search lights since spring. In defence, on the other hand, the challenge of the use of white phosphorus has been high on the agenda for a long time, which shows that environmental toxins are being taken very seriously. This will be done, for example. as expressed by a survey and an impact assessment carried out by the Defence Research Institute. The focus of defence on these challenges has also provided practical results, such as: in the case of the Eastern Region, preventive planning and selection of impact areas have been carried out for environmental reasons. The existing shooting practice fields are established over a long period of time and most of them were established before the pollution law came into force. However, defence construction, which has formal responsibility for the field of fire and drill as a landowner from 1 January of this year, imposes the same environmental requirements on the established fire and drill fields as on the territory of the Eastern Region, even if the fields are not subject to the same concession requirements as on the establishment of the Eastern Region. White phosphorus coming into contact with air will quickly burn into non-toxic combustion products. White phosphorus in water, on the other hand, will remain unreacted for a long time and may therefore lead to damage to organisms in the local environment. Therefore, the proper use of phosphorus ammunition poses a low risk to the environment. The JRC’s report entitled ‘Carriage of white phosphorus contamination in Hierkin’ concludes that particles of white phosphorus unreacted in water or in sediments in or at the Grisung Basin have been detected. The conclusion does not exclude that the particles may be lethal to birds and mammals, but states that they are unlikely to have significant adverse effects. It is essential that the guidelines on the use of phosphorus ammunition be followed, so as to avoid detonation in less suitable areas. Therefore, the Defence selects the impact fields for the grenades on the basis that they should not consist of wetlands or snow-covered areas. Per. there is currently no satisfactory alternative to the use of white phosphorus. If our departments lose the ability to carry out exercises with smoke grenades, in certain situations they could have suffered losses that could otherwise have been avoided. Once a substitution of white phosphorus has been developed that is satisfactory both for the environment and for the maintenance of the necessary training for the defence, a ban on the use of white phosphorus will be superfluous. In that case, it would be primarily in the defence's own interest to end the use of phosphorus ammunition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e721	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e724	The reason I asked for the word in reply is that it is difficult to accept that Højres spokesperson here implicitly claims that the Center Party and SV should have less eye for the safety of Norwegian soldiers because we want to eliminate one of the greatest environmental threats associated with the use of chemicals and other substances in practice in Norwegian defence exercises. It's hard to accept, because there's something recognizable about the arguments attached to it by the Defense. It is recognizable in relation to the arguments used for landmines. It was said that if a person stopped using landmines, he could be harmed by exercise and safety. It is also claimed in this case. My question to the representative of Konradsen is simply why it should not be possible for the Norwegian defence to practise with red phosphorus – which is not toxic in the same way – when we know that that is what the US defence is doing. I expect that they do not want to expose their soldiers to a reduced level of security or a lack of security.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e734	If we're going to send our soldiers out in sharp operations, they're going to have to have trained on the situations they might encounter in such operations. I have not said that the SV and the Center Party do not take seriously the lives and health of Norwegian soldiers, but I have said that for the Right in this matter, that is what is behind the fact that we still want to give the Defense the opportunity to practice with white phosphorus. In the case of red phosphorus, it has been tested. Red phosphorus does not produce the same protective effects as white phosphorus.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e744	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e747	Document No 8:127 for 2002-2003 concerns a possible ban on the use of white phosphorus smoke grenades in Norwegian shooting areas – initially a proposal that could perhaps all be included, but unfortunately the world is not that simple. We first have to think about why we have these types of grenades, what they're going to do, and whether there are alternatives. If it doesn't exist then we have to look at the extent of them in peacetime and at best try to minimize their use at places and times where the possibility of the drug being burned, i.e. unharmed, approximately 100 pst. That the substance is harmful, nobody denies — if it becomes a source of contamination. But per year. on today's date it is only on one shooting field, namely Eagle River Flats in Alaska, that damage has been found after the use of white phosphorus. Nor do allied countries have a general ban on the use of phosphorous smoke grenades. When we have these kind of grenades, and we use them, it's, for example, in order to: screens of their own strengths against transparency in order to prevent a protective glare and to isolate an opponent-marker dimension, e.g. as a reference point for the purpose of near-support from aeroplanes In a war situation, the time perspective is very often a decisive factor in saving the lives of its own soldiers, saving material and, among other things, saving them. hide the advance or any right of retreat. In order to achieve a satisfactory result in terms of time and quantity of concentrated smoke, there is currently no good enough alternative, although there are products that can be used and that are produced in Norway. However, as mentioned above, these products do not fully satisfy the requirements of the Defence, inter alia. with a view to saving lives in a real critical situation. When this is mentioned, I want to say that I am sure that the defence takes all kinds of pollutants seriously, and that there is always a sense of safety and of the possibility of reducing to the minimum what is being used, just to save the environment, which is also something the defense is aware of. The new region field is just a place where the use of smoke grenades is a hot topic. In this way it must be said that this case is positive, as it puts the search light precisely on the environment and the use of dangerous substances by the defence. Now a war has never been harmless, but to the extent possible in peacetime, you can minimize the possible damage to the use of this type of grenade. I think we all agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e772	White phosphorus is very toxic and has been and is widely used in Norwegian shooting areas. The annual consumption is estimated to be about 15 tonnes. White phosphorus is relatively unproblematic in use if the grenade is fired with phosphorus and explodes on land. As a general rule, but there is no doubt that in many cases such ammunition has been used over wetlands, moors or snow without completely incinerating, or with deadliers, with the result that white phosphorus ends up in streams and watercourses. Then the toxic effect is acute. One gram in the drinking water is enough to kill ten people or many large animals. How, then, is the contamination situation in Norwegian shooting areas related to the use of white phosphorus? The Ministry of Defence letter of 3 October 2003 refers to the use in seven Norwegian shooting areas in recent years, but the level of pollution is unknown, because measurements have never been carried out. That's why this letter speculates about the scope of these shooting grounds, and it tells stories of supposed use of bogs and water, even in the impact field of a municipal waterworks. This is shocking, and there is evidence of a lack of an overview of the pollution situation and also of a complete lack of proper handling of white phosphorus in the rear in time. Of course, it is interesting to hear that the defence has now learned, and hereafter only white phosphorus is to be used under reassuring conditions. But that's not enough. It is not possible to use white phosphorus completely safely in Norwegian shooting areas. So we should refrain from using this kind of substance. Therefore, the SV's proposal, which I am referring to here, on a full review of the situation and a ban on phosphorus, should be adopted. Both the majority of the committee and the defence themselves claim that there are no satisfactory alternatives to white phosphorus. But there are alternatives. Following the committee's submission of the suspension, I have been confirmed that during military exercises in Germany, allies must use alternatives to white phosphorus, for example. the United States uses red phosphorus in such exercises, which have a significantly lower environmental impact. There are also enterprises in Norway that produce and export alternatives. So there are alternatives. Then it's said that they're not satisfactory. I then ask questions about what is specific about the protection needs of the Norwegian forces that go beyond the demands of our allies. At the same time, I am pleased that the majority of the committee says so clearly that when such a substitution is available, white phosphorus will be phased out. SV will follow this closely. I would also like to point out that the entire committee wants NIVA to include white phosphorus as a parameter in measurements in Norwegian shooting areas in the future. But it is not a full review of the situation, as SV has asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e789	The representative of Kjetil Bjørklund has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e794	The SV's claim that alternatives to white phosphorus are available does not make it more accurate if it is repeated again and again. The majority of the Committee has made it clear that it would like to change this if proper alternatives were to emerge. So the representative of Bjørklund says that there are production of alternatives in Norway, and that our allies in Europe are using alternatives. He also indicates that we do not use red phosphorus. I should perhaps have been a follower of red phosphorus, and not white, but now let it lie. He asks the question why we don't use it. But we have, in response from the Ministry of Defence, confirmed why we cannot use it: because it is not good enough. I would like to hear concretely where the representative of Bjørklund comes from, as referred to in the Nation, that formerly Raufoss ammunition factories, Nammo, produce a product as a substitute for white phosphorus. I would like the representative to respond specifically to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e803	Employees at Nammo at Raufoss have themselves informed that there are alternatives produced here in the country, and there has been a public debate about this. With regard to the question of the use of alternatives by our allies, I can refer to a letter that I received from the Defence Research Institute, which deals with the relationship between American and German forces in a military exercise in 2001, on 28 May, clarifying that American forces can, of course, use red phosphorus on German soil, and that the effect of this alternative on the environment is significantly less.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e810	The representative of Bjørklund speaks hot for alternatives, and he talks about red phosphorus. The thing about red phosphorus is it produces less smoke. For there is smoke coming from smoke grenades, for example. to save the lives of soldiers. Then we're also talking about the environment. When white phosphorus is burned up, there is no environmental problem. But it says about environmental problems, and it says about red phosphorus that it is difficult to ignite. Then you might think that the environmental problem got even bigger – if you used a product that was harder to ignite.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e817	I am not an environmental chemist, nor is there anyone else in the defence committee. But this is about the issue of satisfactory alternatives. What I am trying to point out in the argument is, of course, that it is worth working as hard as possible for alternatives to be used as quickly as possible. So that's what this is all about. The starting point is that the benefit of red phosphorus is linked to the fact that it does not develop the phosphoric acid that, as far as I know, creates the acute toxic effect. These are, as I said, complex questions that are difficult to fully understand, but the problem is that it is important to find and apply alternatives as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e826	I would like to follow up on what the representative Lund was in for at the beginning here, this with the fact that it is obvious that SV has a lot of information that we do not have. And that's pretty remarkable. What we have been informed by the Council of State is: ‘I do not have any information that other allied countries have a general prohibition on the use of phosphorous smoke grenades.’ It is explicitly stated in the answers that we have received from the Council of States, that there are no alternatives to white phosphorus in order to make the smoke grenades work in the way that the Defense is supposed to do. Is there really Bjørklund with information about something that others in the committee are not informed about? Otherwise, I think you should be so clear in your language that you say that you have mistrusted the information the Minister of Defence has given to Stortinget. That's the consequence. One of the two: either you get to make the factual arguments, or you get to distrust the information we've been given.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e840	It's good here to remind you that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e844	I really have no reason to go further in relation to the issue of mistrust, because it is the question of whether it is possible to develop, or rather whether there are, alternatives that can be used, either in the short or long term. It is therefore important that we get as far as possible from the problem as soon as possible, namely that white phosphorus should be banned in Norwegian shooting areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e849	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e852	The proposal we are now discussing is divided into two parts, the ban on the use of white phosphorus grenades in shooting areas in Norway and the monitoring of white phosphorus contamination in Norwegian shooting areas. White phosphorus is a substance that has been used in Norwegian shooting areas over a long period of time. With today's knowledge and experience from, among others, Alaska in the United States with negative consequences, it is a fact that this is a substance that should not be used. Nevertheless, when the Christian People's Party has decided not to vote for a ban, it is a consequence of a strong emphasis on the lives and health of the soldiers. There is currently no satisfactory alternative to white phosphorus, according to the trade union environment. It is not a satisfactory alternative if the substance is so dangerous to health that it can be fatal. If there is a need to protect their own forces against transparency, the purpose is to prevent protection, and there is no alternative if the smoke is neither dense enough to function as a screen, nor long enough and is of such a size that the soldiers can move without being detected. Then there will be a false security – it will be fine in peaceful surroundings, but there may be a shock to the soldiers in sharp operations. The Christian People's Party has taken inward that situations may arise where there is a need to shield its own forces from transparency in order to prevent protection. Then it's also important to be able to practice these situations, not least to know how smoke grenades work, and how to act. It's about being prepared and doing things right, even in crisis situations. The Christian People's Party's assessment is therefore that because of the safety of our soldiers it is necessary that white phosphorus in grenades can be used for this type of smoking until further notice. We send soldiers to international missions, including: in Afghanistan and Iraq, which suggests that sharp situations may arise, and it is our duty and our responsibility to ensure that they have had the opportunity for realistic exercises. At the same time, the Christian People's Party will state that a clear objective must be to find alternatives to white phosphorus in smoke ammunition. We are also responsible for and obliged to take care of the environment. Where such a substitution is available, the use of white phosphorus in Norwegian shooting areas must be terminated. The Christian People's Party will also clarify that grenades with white phosphorus must be replaced by other technical solutions for the other uses, such as: the marking of the target. And I'm actually taking that as a matter of course that the defense has already changed. The Christian People's Party has noticed that it has compiled an overview of the use of white phosphorus in 15 firing ranges. The assessment is based on topography, terrain and the amount of white phosphorus used. The Defence Staff indicates that either white phosphorus has been detected or that it must be assumed that white phosphorus can be detected differently for all these shooting areas. Unburnt white phosphorus in residual material, in water and encapsulated in soil, can contaminate large areas over a long period of time. The consequences of the contamination are very serious for animal and plant life. Looking at the level work being done in the region of Eastern Europe, it shows that defence is now taking the health and environmental risk seriously with white phosphorus, and thorough work is being done in the planning process. In the old shooting areas, however, there has been no thorough preventive assessment, as it has not yet been in the system. White phosphorus has also not been part of the screening of the pollution status of shooting areas. Therefore, we cannot have any clear forming of damage to animal and plant life in areas with shooting grounds either. The Christian People's Party believes that white phosphorus must be subject to future monitoring of the state of pollution, carried out by the Norwegian Institute of Water Research or others. In the short term, a test project should be carried out in one field. It is important to find out how to investigate the area in order to be sure of finding any residual material, whether water or soil, and the extent to which the survey must be carried out in the perimeter and depth. There are restrictions on the use of white phosphorus today as well, and it is claimed that it is used correctly, so there is no danger. The catchment area shall be solid and dry, free of snow and without ants and water mirrors. But that's not good enough. We must be able to recognise that knowledge and consequences have increased lately, and there must be consequences for the management of old shooting areas. A delegation from Norway has been in Alaska, and the newspaper Østerdølen said that NIVA will make a professional report after the stay. It is expected to be completed before Christmas and will be part of the professional assessments. It is about learning from the mistakes of others, but so much about the exchange of experience and knowledge about cleaning. The defence is well under way to monitor contamination of white phosphorus. Therefore, the Christian People's Party does not see the need to adopt pollution monitoring, as proposed by the SV and the Centre Party. However, it is important to be involved in the dialogue to protect the environment, and the process in the Eastern Region will form a template for the other shooting areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e880	The defense's own statement shows that thousands of deadly white phosphorus poison particles are undetected in watercourses and ants around Norway. The NIVA study concludes that if wind direction is correct, the white phosphorus charge can spread unburnt white phosphorus above 250 metres. This substance may lie for several decades if it is deposited in wet soil or in standing water, and a particle of one gram is enough to kill a human or a large animal. Frankly, the use of white phosphorus by the defense may prove to be a ticking environmental bomb, and the Center Party, like SV, wants us to follow the precautionary principle, and is therefore in favour of a ban on the use of white phosphorus in Norwegian shooting areas. In the statement made to the Committee by the Defender, they state that they have used up to 60 tonnes of white phosphorus between 1992 and 2002. Six of these tonnes cannot be accounted for by the Defence. The grenades were detonated in unidentified locations. The remainder is detonated in 14 shooting grounds in Norway, and most of the shooting grounds have wetlands or moors close to the target area. The use of white phosphorus before 1992 does not indicate an overall picture. Now the defense has been asked to report all the historical use of white phosphorus, but in a meeting with the SFT, the defense has been accepted to exclude all the years before 1992. The centre batch is concerned that a full monitoring of this issue and of this toxic substance should also cover its use before 1992, as it has been found that unburnt WP has a long residence period in nature — much longer than previously assumed. As late as last year, in fact, the defense had not given any instructions for environmentally sound use of white phosphorus. The proper use of white phosphorus is now reflected in the Education Directive as a guideline for all shooting, but unfortunately it is not sufficient to exclude damage to animals and nature. The U.S. Eagle River Flats in Alaska has experienced extensive bird deaths due to white phosphorus. The field has not been exposed to white phosphorus since 1990, but the clearing work in the severe ant region is still ongoing. American defense has exposed harmful toxins deposited on sediment decades ago, and the residual values of detonation here have been measured all the way up to 8 pst. American authorities have so far found serious WP pollution in 71 different shooting areas in 29 states in the United States. The US defence has also explained the use of white phosphorus back to the 1950s — it is seen in comparison with the Norwegian defence, which is not to be explained before 1992. The centre lot thus finds that there are insufficient studies to support a claim that the use of white phosphorus has not damaged animal and plant life in our shooting areas. Therefore, it is also right for the future to base a leading commodity perspective on dealing with as dangerous pollutants as this is. Therefore, a comprehensive monitoring of the use of white phosphorus and the consequences of this use should be carried out and a ban should be adopted on the further use of white phosphorus in Norwegian shooting areas. I have to say that I think that representatives from the Workers' Party and the Right here are dealing with SV's representative in a rather little satisfactory way. It is true that he has been confirmed that red phosphorus has been used among US forces in exercises in Germany, and it is also true that he has been confirmed that in several shooting areas in the United States severe restrictions have now been placed on the use of white phosphorus, and this will also be done in the years to come. It is also true that he was given the information so late that it was not possible to include it in the Committee's position. The information was not confirmed until this weekend. This does not mean that we have mistrusted what the Ministry of Defence has written, but there may well be questions about whether this has been given sufficient information on the part of the Ministry of Defence. I am thinking in particular of this saying that there is no information on the general prohibition on the use of white phosphorus by other allied countries. That's probably true, but it's also been done by American forces with red phosphorus instead of white phosphorus. And it's not true that there are no more shooting grounds in the United States where restrictions are imposed on the use of white phosphorus, except for the relevant Alaskan firing range. So at that very point is actually the department's information, as far as I can see, incorrect, and I think it is necessary for the Minister of Defence here to explain. I feel confident that the defence will quickly be able to find adequate alternatives to the use of white phosphorus, and in particular now with the new information that has come, that such alternatives have been used by American forces, with good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e901	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e904	Paragraph 2 of this proposal is all right, it is all right, and the defence is in the process of monitoring this pollution. It probably supports everyone about. Paragraph 1 refers to a prohibition, and that's what makes it so difficult. I feel that the Center Party, which I consider to be a defence-friendly party, could at least have agreed that one could use phosphorus on exercises where there is rock or concrete, or what is mentioned in the letter from the Ministry of Defence. Thus, one could at least have been trained with it, so that Norwegian soldiers behaved like other soldiers. It is important to quote what is stated in the letter from the Minister of Defence: ‘Various alternatives to white phosphorus have been identified as a smoker, but there is no satisfactory replacement at present.’ And then there's two, red phosphorus and something called HC. The HC smoke is excluded due to poison, and the other is excluded because it gives little smoke and is difficult to ignite. Then there must be something new in addition to what is stated by the Ministry of Defence, and as SV and the Central Party know, but we do not know.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e918	Yes, that's obvious what it does. There is information here that American forces have successfully used red phosphorus in practice in Germany. There is information here that in several shooting grounds in the United States, there are actually restrictions on the use of white phosphorus, without one on the U.S. side being suspected of having less care for their soldiers. Now it is the case that the Centre Party and the Workers' Party once cooperated on a precautionary principle linked to the prohibition of landmines. The argument from the Defence and the Right about not banning landmines was exactly the same as the one we're meeting here today. Nevertheless, the Workers' Party chose to use the precautionary principle at the time. They don't choose that today. The centre batch asks why, in all days, one chooses not to apply it, in relation to a substance as toxic as this one is. It is clear that the defense itself thinks that red phosphorus is less effective because it does not ignite so easily. And the reason why it doesn't light up so easily is probably simply that it's less toxic – and therefore does not damage nature so much. But American forces have obviously used it and are satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e927	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e930	First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased that the majority of the Committee is committed to minimising the use of white phosphorus, but that at the same time it can happen in a way that could not increase the risk to Norwegian soldiers in international operations. There is no secret that alternatives to white phosphorus exist. But they're worse. What is being produced as a novelty here, that there is red phosphorus on the market, it is stated in the letter from the undersigned to the Committee. Red phosphorus thus generates less smoke and is harder to ignite. This does not prevent the practice of red phosphorus in certain situations, especially in situations where the use of white phosphorus has been restricted. Norway also wants to have restrictions on the use of white phosphorus, among others. especially in the vicinity of water. But there is a difference between restrictions and bans. The reason why it is important not to have a ban is that if it is white phosphorus that gives the fastest smoke development and protects our people best in an international operation, it is important that they have tried it before they are out in a situation where life can stand. But there's a difference between wanting to use white phosphorus more than what we need to have the necessary training background and insight into the use, and not wanting to use other alternatives where it's natural. That the Americans have banned their territory in Alaska, which is a wetlands and ants area, that is quite natural. That doesn't mean there are no other areas in the United States where you train with white phosphorus, which gives the best protection in combat. I think I would urge the minority in the committee to take the majority's intention and also my intention seriously, when we say that precisely because white phosphorus is harmful under given conditions, we want to minimize its use. That's a good intention. It is also important to give the Defence Credit that this has actually been taken seriously. Only last year: An instruction has been given, an evaluation has been started – it is best done to minimise its use. But there is also no doubt that the Swedish Defence Research Institute, which is the expert on this, says that per. at present, there are no alternatives that are equally good and that, if correctly used, white phosphorus is the best available smoke rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e941	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e944	The majority and the Ministry of Defence have taken a step in the right direction. They have not taken the appropriate steps in this matter, but they have taken a step in the right direction, and I would like to give it to the Council of State. Legally late it was too far, but it was in the right direction. But I still have to ask, related to the information that one here gives about alternatives and restrictions in other countries: it says in the letter from the Ministry of Defence that, with the exception of the relevant Alaskan shooting area, there are no restrictions imposed by the US authorities, but there may be restrictions imposed because of forest fire risks. Isn't it true that restrictions have been imposed on Fort Bragg, Fort Campbell, Fort Dix, Fort Drum, Fort Knox and Fort McCoy, not because of the fire hazard, but because of the environmental hazard?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e952	What I express in my letter to the Committee is that I do not have information that other allied countries have a general ban on the use of phosphorous smoke grenades, i.e. a general ban on the whole country. I'm not aware that allied countries have that. But there may be individual areas that have restrictions for different reasons. In fact, we also have, we've said ourselves, that we have restrictions especially related to the use of water and the use of white phosphorus, because then the risk is highest. What we have information about is Eagle River Flats in Alaska. That's what we have information about. I don't rule out that there may also be other shooting grounds in the United States, or so far also in other parts of the world. But what we do not have information about is that there is a general ban on allied countries. But I would also like to add that if it were to be such that an allied country has a general ban, we would still not recommend it in Norway. It's white phosphorus that gives the best protection for our soldiers in surgery, and we must therefore have the opportunity to train with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e959	There is no doubt that the use of white phosphorus smoke grenades poses an environmental problem and is highly toxic. There is one unknown factor here – how dangerous this substance really is to get into nature. The case contains a defense-side screening showing that this type of ammunition in recent years is concentrated to seven shooting areas, two of which in Troms. And the extent of the use of these smoke grenades on these shooting areas is not de minimis. For example, it is said that it is used 200-750 kg per. years from 1992 to 2002 in one of the shooting areas in Troms. My specific question to the Council of State is something she raised, that there is a need to reduce the use of white phosphorus. How much white phosphorus is to be used in the firing fields in the years to come? And how much will the Council of State reduce the use of white phosphorus?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e968	The question is not how much in grams or kilograms. The conditions under which the white phosphorus is used determine the adverse effects. It is, of course, the majority of the committee that has explained very carefully that, on dry ground, it has minimal adverse effects. But used in the vicinity of wetlands it will have a completely different adverse effect. So these are the areas and the conditions under which white phosphorus is used, which is critical, and not the number of grams used. That is why I would like to take the opportunity to praise the Defence for taking this challenge seriously, for now registering in a completely different way than before, and for the Defence Department to have a self-interest in having as little use of white phosphorus as possible. But there's a limit, and the limit is by having trained on things to use to protect life in international operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e980	The state council's question goes on some of the things she answered. We are told that it is used approx. 15 tonnes of white phosphorus each year in the Army. It is also stated that in one exercise it was planned to use 3,014 kg, but for environmental reasons it was only used 544 kg. Of course, it is good that you use as little as possible, and that you become as competent as possible in the use of this. But the reason why you use smoke grenades is because you have to have realistic exercises, that soldiers get realistic practice on how this works, just to save soldiers' lives and material, and in tactical advance and withdrawal. Could the Council of State elaborate on this a little bit more, that not only is environmental considerations taken into account, but that the lives of soldiers are also taken into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e989	It is precisely because this is so important for the sake of the lives and health of soldiers that we strongly oppose the proposal for a total ban. It is white phosphorus that works best if you are to be able to dazzle or isolate an opponent, if you are to shield your own strengths against transparency in order to prevent protection, or if you are to have aircraft near-support and you need to mark targets with reference points. Then there are no other options. It is not appropriate, both for me as Minister of Defence and certainly also for most people in this room, to send Norwegian personnel out in sharp operations without giving them the best possible protection. So here there is a balance between two different aspects: the best possible protection of our personnel and the least possible environmental damage. But it's not always like 100 pst. One of them is the right answer. So it's also wrong to go for 100 pst. a ban on the use of white phosphorus, in which case we may risk losing more than we win.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e996	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1001	I feel the need for some brief comments at the end of the debate. Firstly, I would like to comment on Bredvold's questions, whether or not to take into account the lives and health of soldiers. That's probably all of the batches occupied. And if this would implicitly be some lead on that there are some parties that shouldn't take that into account, I'll probably reject it and say that it's also about taking life into account at all. This is not just about the environment. This is a very toxic substance which, if accidentally disposed of, can damage both nature, animals and humans. So you have to kind of try to combine both the consideration of soldiers' lives and health and life and health in general. Otherwise, I'd like to comment that you've gone a step in the right direction here. I think that's good. But I think it would have been important that the defense had also opened up for a survey of what had happened before 1992. It is clear that it was shot with quite a lot of white phosphorus both at the Terningmoen and in South Varanger before 1992, which nobody today has an overview of. And once again to refer to the U.S. defense: once the U.S. defense has committed itself to mapping all the way back to the 1950s, I also think the Norwegian defense could have opened up to mapping a larger period of time. Otherwise, I have to say that I still believe that the information given to the committee here is insufficient. It is true that there is a sentence that you do not have a general prohibition in other countries, but that is not the sentence I am concerned with. I'm concerned with the next sentence, where it actually says that with the exception of the Alaskan field of fire, "the US authorities have not imposed restrictions on the use of white phosphorus". That's when I ask: what have American authorities done on Fort Bragg, Fort Campbell, Fort Dix, Fort Drum, Fort Nox, and Fort McCoy? Well, they've imposed restrictions. One of the reasons they've done that is probably the experiences they've had in Alaska too. I hope that this case will result in increased attention to the use of this substance in the defence, and that we will also go a step further towards a ban, which must be the objective of the use of white phosphorus. On the basis of the signals from the Workers' Party spokesman that he could support point 2 of the Centre Party and the SV's proposals, I would also like to ask whether it is possible to divide the vote between point 1 and point 2 so that the Workers' Party can be given an opportunity to support point 2 of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1018	The President shall endeavour to respond to the request made by the representative of Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1021	As rapporteur-in-Office, I just want to say a few words to the last one that Marit Arnstad brought up. The Labour Party will vote against both points of the SV proposal and the Central Party proposal. What Gunnar Halvorsen brought up was not correct. As for the Central Party summary, I'm left with the impression that it's kind of summed up so that those who are opponents of white phosphorus are the ones who are right, while the others, the majority, are wrong. I said in my post, and I can repeat it, that if there is an alternative to white phosphorus, the majority of the Defence Committee is prepared to reconsider its view on white phosphorus. I'm standing by. I don't want to worry that we in the majority are made as if we are not environmentally friendly, because SV and the Center Party are too red phosphorus. It's not properly manufactured. It's important, as it's said here, this is a step in the right direction. But we are for this step. We have shown in our attitude that we are because the defence has taken the initiative to investigate how they will respond in the autumn. We've been doing this all along, but it's shown that we're against it. We don't want that on us. The majority of the Defence Committee is very conscious of the use of white phosphorus and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1030	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 237]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1046	At the request of the Church, the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1053	The representatives Arne Sortevik, Ursula Evje and Ulf Erik Knudsen have through Document No. 8:110 for 2002-2003 put forward proposals asking the Government to promote the legislative amendments necessary to make the written secondary education of the school optional. The approach taken by the Stortinget today shows that the Progress Party does not have the support of any of the other parties for such a proposal. The majority point to changes in the law which make secondary education optional in schools a change in Norwegian language policy. This is a change the majority does not want. The majority consider it necessary to focus attention on the linguistic policy objectives on the equalisation of the two objectives and ask the Government to ensure that this is achieved in the education system. Furthermore, the majority refers to the response letter from the Council of State, which gives an overall message to the Stortinget in spring 2004, where the many proposals of the Quality Committee are being considered and where the Norwegian subject will also be discussed. The proposal of the Progress Party is almost an annual phenomenon. The argument is, I think, mildly strange. In the press release, the representative Sortevik sent out after giving the setting, he indicates that many students are negative to neuron, and that professionals claim that the professional performance in written news is poor, and is getting worse. And then he says, ‘For this reason, written lateral targets may be considered as a pedagogical bullying of students.’ So the argument for removing the newnorm is that the results are bad, and that the students are negative to the subject. As far as I have registered, the party of progress has thoughts and opinions about strengthening other subjects where the results are weak, while the goal of the side has to go away. Nynorsk and Bokmål have been official language sidings since 1885. The Central Party will continue to have our two languages. This similarity requires that knowledge of novel and book goals is general throughout the country. That's why we need enhanced training in both languages. When the Stortinget is about to deal with the announcement of Norwegian school in spring, a priority goal for the Centerpartiet is to strengthen the gender equality of nynorrhea and bookkeeping. I need to comment on a remark from the government parties where they refer to an experiment at Revetal College in Westfold. It's the choice of example that surprises me. This experiment consists only of providing training on oral side measures. Then you can ask if there's an experiment that will strengthen the newnorm. I think it's a clear weakening, we're talking about two parallel writing languages. The wonder actually gets bigger when I examine what this experiment really is. The goal test at Revetal is a small part of a larger project where the school carries out a wide three-year trial without grades in any subject. Because the students were not to have grades in any subject, the school was given the opportunity to let the students drop written page goals. So the experiment at Revetal is a non-characteristic school, and not primarily an attempt at lateral education. I would rather refer to a project at Holmlia School, which was mentioned in the evening post on the 10th of October, where 30 students in the 9th grade have chosen to use new Norwegian books in the KRL subject. Teachers have long seen that the students' new skills are not good enough when they leave primary school. We're going to be "compared to the other 9th grade in school to see if we can do more than that," says Tahir, who has Pakistani parents, and who also says that it's important to learn new Norwegian, because then one also learns something about Norway's history. It's important to learn neuron. It's part of our cultural heritage and the only Norwegian language we have. If the students get to work more often with newnorms, the basis for many of the negative attitudes to language learning will disappear, the teachers at Holmlia believe. It's this offensive attitude we need for our two equalized writing languages.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1080	All debates around Norwegian training in Norway lead to a high level of commitment. The compulsory training scheme in both Norwegian writing languages has been and is controversial. The quality selection described in its setting the relationship between the main target and the side targets. Among other things, it is proposed that students should only have an examination in one of the writing languages, following a random model. The Government is now considering all the proposals and consultation opinions of the Quality Committee. The size will be submitted later to a large-scale notification with a background for this work. It would therefore be appropriate to draw conclusions, among others. on the Norwegian language when Stortinget deals with that Storingsmeld. In the debates on secondary education, two aspects are generally withdrawn. One side is about Norwegian language policy, which has a long tradition and is subject to a lot of emotions. The other page deals with the content and method of the Norwegian field. The right-hand approach in this case is mainly based on the last. All subjects are subject to evaluation and the Right considers that this should also apply to the Norwegian subject. The right is therefore pleased that Revetal Youth School has been given the opportunity to experiment with alternative methods of training in secondary education. This will in the long term provide us with more knowledge and experience in the future organisation of the Norwegian subject with regard to cross-target training. The right has programmed in its decision-making programme that written siding training shall be optional in secondary education. On the right, it is assumed that, in the Norwegian subjects at this level, only one of the Norwegian languages should be compulsory. Reading literature written on both target forms should remain mandatory in the opinion of the Right, as all Norwegian literature is important in language and cultural education. The right notes that a majority of current aggregates do not support the Right-wing Programme formulation of optional written secondary objectives. When the Right does not support the proposal in Document No. 8:110 for 2002-03, it is with the background in two things. One is that the proposal goes much further than what the Right wants. Among other things, optional secondary education is proposed in primary school. Right doesn't agree. The second aspect is that the Stortinge will later deal with a quality rating in initial training. The whole Norwegian subject will then be the subject of debate. I also want to give some personal considerations on the matter. I have never fully understood the debate about compulsory written training in both forms of education. For many, it is already not mandatory, and I am thinking especially of those who do not have Norwegian language as their mother tongue. In addition, Sami has become an official language in Norway, which means that many in the Sami population do not have training in the two Norwegian writing languages. In view of this and the increased focus on training in foreign languages, I believe that there is reason to question today's practice. I don't believe in any revolution in this area, but I think the time is working towards one compulsory Norwegian writing language. I don't think it's a question of, but when this becomes part of the official Norwegian language policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1101	The question of optional page goals in school is not only a question of Norwegian education, but also a question of Norwegian language and cultural history. The poor literacy skills of many students in Norwegian school today, and the fact that several students have developed negative attitudes to cross-target training, are something we have to take seriously, but the Labour Party does not believe that the introduction of an optional scheme is the solution to these challenges. Nynorsk and Bokmål have been official language equivalents in Norway since 1885. This means that nynorrhea and book targets can be used in all parts of society, and that users are entitled to receive public responses to the target form they use. This mechanism assumes that knowledge of both types of target is widely across the country. The side target has deep roots in Norwegian history, and important parts of Norwegian language history are the story of the coexistence of the two target forms. The law fixing of the siding style in the high school in 1907 was considered one of the most important historical markings of the equality of the two dimensions. We've kept that on the side. The Labour Party believes that it is important to strengthen Norwegian education in school, but does not believe, as some have claimed, that training in a compulsory secondary objective necessarily goes beyond the main objective. One study has shown that 80 pst. of the Bokmålsleben are negative to the Nynorsk. There are also many people who have poor writing skills in the sidebar. These are things the Labour Party wants to take hold of. The Norwegian School shall provide all pupils with a broad general education. As we see it, the secondary education is one of the things that students are going to acquire from Norwegian national culture. There may be grounds for recalling that Norwegian sidings are not a subject of their own in the Norwegian school, but a part of an entire Norwegian subject, where one has a curriculum that includes both book goals and new Norwegian. If you want to support the proposal on optional page targets, you change the nature of the Norwegian subject, and Norwegian side targets become, in our opinion, a new subject in reality. The Labour Party is concerned that the objectives of language policy on gender equality between the two objectives — which in other words have long traditions in the Norwegian school system — are being pursued in the education system. However, these considerations should not prevent an assessment of the methods and content of Norwegian training at the different stages, in the same way as one assesses other subjects in school. Such an assessment is most natural in the context of the quality selection process. Therefore, together with the majority of the Committee, we will not support the proposal to introduce optional secondary objectives in primary and secondary schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1120	In this case too, the Progress Party is a long way ahead. We're used to that. The party of progress will make the school's training in written page goals voluntary. That's our first errand of many in the Norwegian field. Norwegian School is struggling with mediocre learning outcomes – also in a subject as fundamental as Norwegian. At the same time, there is discussion of both resource access and frustration over access to resources in Norwegian schools. In such a discussion, we believe that the side measure is at home. Is it right to use resources — money and time — to learn two almost equal writing languages? We should recognise that this strange exercise is Norway alone. We should recognize that bookcases dominate, and that a declining proportion of students choose new Norse as their primary goal. In a large study from the University of Oslo/NTNU from 1999, among more than 5,200 students conducted in 1996–1997, clear messages were received. 73 pst. Of the students, 95 pst. by the students would like to learn books. Trials of common language textbooks in community teaching were slaughtered by book-students, by foreign-language students and by pupils with learning disabilities. At that time, Professor Kjell Lars Berge of the Institute of Nordics and Literature at the University of Oslo said: The results are so negative that it is alarming if we think about everything we invest. Long before 1999, there has also been great scepticism about the cross-target styles. A well - known Norwegian teacher wrote in 1980 that 80–90 pst. by students who are unable to write in nine Danish after 12 years of schooling. This isn't level-lowering, it's chaos. In 1984, Minister of Education Kirsti Kolle Grondahl summarized his experiences as follows: ‘Even though I have come to the conclusion that if the methodology, subject matter and motivation for side objectives are not changed very much, it should be considered to omit the requirement for written side objectives in primary school.’ We should note that through polls both in 1995 and in 2000 between 85 pst. and 87 pst. by the population that they write private book targets or targets. We should notice that the difference between the new Norwegian and the bookcase is becoming more and more apparent. We should take a closer look at the equality between the selected main objective and the selected side objectives which are to be cut and cut by means of the provisions of the Training Act. In our view, the law promotes equality between language forms rather than the priority of the term "principal objectives" and "partial objectives". The term signifies a ranking rather than an equality. Last but not least, I mention access to experimentation – or rather unexplained access to experimentation. In Westfold, the county council, by the education director, says yes to attempts without written side targets. The Ministry and the Council of State say no to trials, with reference to the fact that the law does not allow it, and then it is upon application from counties. This is the reason for presenting Document No. The 8th proposal. The Party accepts that a single decision does not remove lateral targets overnight, but is over-ripe to make changes. That's why we've tried to make a careful progress. In the proposal, which I am referring to here, the Progress Party will have a notice on the Norwegian subject in primary and secondary schools. We will have evaluated the use of resources and the results related to the main objectives and the side objectives respectively. We want to assess legislative, regulatory and curriculum changes that make it clear that there is a difference between primary and secondary objectives. The Progress Party will have assessed the rules applicable to the choice of target form of the school and the rules applicable to the change of target form. So, who has the right to vote, and what should be the requirement with regard to triggering their own class with a primary objective other than the chosen target form of the school? The Party of Progress will have made clear the laws, regulations and administrative provisions so that it can be opened up for trials where written side-measures can be made optional. After the view of the Progress Party, this matter is so important that it should not be placed in the bag that is now called – and for a long time is going to be called – the setting of the Quality Committee. On the contrary, we should carefully assess resource use and results. We should clarify and confirm the transparency of trials in a process where resource use and results on the key Norwegian subject are in focus. In the opinion of the Advance Party, we do it best through our own case to Stortinget. I think the representative Robertsen from the Right is at least right in one thing -- this is a question of when, it's not a question of whether we're going to get a common Norwegian writing language. We hope that the way forward there will be short, that we will pool resources to learn one written language well, as best we can. That is why we have addressed this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1149	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1152	This is a ritual that repeats itself with irregular spaces. What makes it a little special this time is that we just have some comparative studies that show that Norwegian students don't master the language well enough. In these studies they don't do well enough, they don't do as well as Finnish and Swedish students. There is a broad political consensus that we need to do something about Norwegian schooling. This has been said several times by the Council of State, and the political parties too now agree that we should intervene in Norwegian training and do something with it. In this situation, it is strange that this is being brought forward again, that Norwegian training should be changed by eliminating cross-target education – because that is really what we are talking about. We have to remember that we have two written languages and many dialects in this country. And when we're talking about changing the goal training and doing it verbally, or whatever you want, it's a strange argument, because this is about writing language. There is, as I said, agreement on strengthening Norwegian training. The quality committee has suggested that we take more time, more hours, and that's one way to go. I do not believe that this proposal by the Progress Party provides for children's literacy skills as a basis. This is an intervention in the debate on language policy here in the country. And then we're going to remember that we've had two jammed writing languages for over 100 years, so we have a long tradition of equality. The school shall provide general education and the knowledge and skills of its own writing languages must be the most important in general education. So it must be important that we insist that there should be training in both the jammed writing languages that we have in the country. There is no coverage to say that training in the side target takes time from training in the main goal, and that this means that a teacher’s main goal is worse than anyone else could have done. There is no research at all that underlines this, and it is not possible in the light of these international comparative studies that we have, to say that this is why Norwegian students are at a level slightly above the average. Then you can discuss whether the average level is good enough, but there is at least no research that says that this is because they have training in two writing languages. And it's important to bring it with you. So the argument that the Progress Party is trying to make, that you have to put the resources towards the main goal so that it gets so much better, so I don't believe anything at all. We need to improve training in Norwegian. It's going to happen through increased time for the subject, and we're also going to look at the methods that are being used, work consciously with the teaching methods, and make teaching better and more exciting. That's the big challenges, and that's where we should put the cancers and the shock. We have to take seriously that we have a long culture with two writing languages, and that it is linked to the identity of the language. For us in SV, it is quite clear that we still need to have training in both writing languages. Those who get the highest general education in this country are going to be able to master both of the writing languages that we have. Then I have a small call to the Council of State at the end: I expect something to come in the big message that will be submitted to the spring, in the light of the quality committee's setting. I expect the Council of State to take seriously our long history and that we have two equal written languages, and that there will be no proposal to change that, that is. remove the lateral training – that’s what we’re talking about, removing the lateral training at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1173	The debate on the position of the side target in Norwegian school is an old debate. For the Christian People's Party, this debate has two important dimensions: one language policy dimension and one school policy dimension. The Christian People's Party emphasises that we have two equal written languages in Norway, new Norwegian and Bokmål. These two languages are maximum live, but one language, the book target, dominates in use. The dominance of the bookcase has increased in recent decades, which we see both in active use and in schools' choice of training objectives. But there is no current policy of the Christian People's Party to ignore the similarity between these two texts. Having heard Mr Sortevik's justification for the proposal, I understand that their proposal is a clear linguistic policy proposal, with a view to obtaining a single written language in Norway. This is how the school is used in a language policy struggle. The Christian People's Party has a different language policy position: we still want a gender equality between nynostic and book goals. With this language policy position, it is a natural school policy position to learn to use both the textual objectives in school. The Christian People's Party cannot therefore support the proposal of the Progress Party to do the side goal in school voluntarily. Mutual knowledge will be important for those who work in writing and public servants must be able to use both of the written objectives in their work. The lateral goal – and for most of us it will mean neural – is a central part of our national cultural heritage that we should have knowledge of. This is part of general education. We believe that there must be other ways to improve the Norwegian field than to exempt it from cross-target training. The Christian People's Party has been open to various types of experiments with forms of teaching that can inspire and motivate students for better learning. On a general basis, we are also open to evaluating different forms of assessment, but cannot see that the side-target is in any particular position compared to other school disciplines. It is important to gain experience from these trials, and we expect that this will be included in the assessments the Government will make when it submits a wholesale message as a follow-up to the quality selection setting. On this basis, the Christian People's Party is included in the majority who do not support the proposal of the Progress Party, but vote to attach it to the meeting book.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1188	The Norwegian language, including people's literacy skills, is at risk of being weakened. The left sees it as one of its most important cultural tasks to protect the language and literature, the very basis of our national identity. The Norwegian dialectism and our two writing language traditions are a great value to us as people. Language helps to give common identities and references to a population. We have two equidistant national languages and a unique Sami language culture, apart from all the other minority languages used by our new countrymen and women. Nor do we have any democracy without language. The left will maintain compulsory secondary education, and will require teaching materials available on both objectives at the same time. The challenges we face when it comes to people's reading and writing problems, we don't solve them by removing the page target instruction, because it's not the reason. It is open for testing with the side-target instruction. It's important that she is also under trial, because it's important that we get the knowledge we need to make this teaching the best possible. There are many who have been involved in the proposal. The representative Rolf Rikvam spoke about this as a language policy debate, that it was a proposal to get one writing language. That is where we support the representative, Mr Rikvam. All the proposals that will be taken away from the secondary education will weaken the secondary education. It does not consider the Left to be a fight to improve Norwegian education. We await the quality selection's setting and hope that we will then have a debate on how to raise the quality of Norwegian training, and also focus on how to preserve the Norwegian language, both the new Norwegian language and the book target, and the challenges we face to a global society simply to preserve our language, which is important to our common identity.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1203	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1207	The proposal from the Progress Party is a proposal that has a very large scope. From the Right, it has never been an objective to remove lateral education from the timetable, whether it is a book measure or a new one, which is the lateral dimension. Nor has it been an objective to make the conditions for lateral training more difficult. On the other hand, we have been positive about attempts at optional written side-by-side education. Such an attempt is now being made at Revetal College in Westfold. There are book goals the main goal and the new Norse side measure. The aim of the experiment, which has been approved by the education director in Vestfold, is to re-enter the new Norway. Lack of motivation and weak learning outcomes among students are the background to the proposal. And so far, the feedback from both teachers and students suggests that the students learn more side goals, and that the motivation for learning the subject has increased considerably. The teaching for the students is as extensive in time as before, but the written component has been removed. The teaching in page goals therefore now gives more time to language history, dialectology, reading Norwegian/Nynorical texts from both newspapers and fictional literature and grammar. The debate on lateral targets is becoming easily a trench war with words, and I often think there is a lot of suspicion of backgrounds. I would have liked a more open and curious and less preconceived position of those representatives and parties who have expressed in this debate that almost any form of pilot scheme is a bad one. I think it is brilliant that the experimentation in Westfold through a combination of freedom of choice for students and the conversion of cross-target education seems to have a positive impact on the cross-target. In the evening post on 31 May this year, four students are interviewed at the school. "Nynorsk is great," says Henriette Eyegarden. The fellows Camilla Vik, Jeanette Stange and Alexander Davidsen believe that they learn more and get a better relationship with the new one when they can spend time on something other than teasing on writing. In my opinion, politicians will soon have to take on board the fact that even prominent people in the target movement have begun to see that the conversion of cross-target education, not a removal, is a tool for preserving the nostrils, not a means of undermining them. In order to quote Halvor Fosli, who is a neo-Norwegian, from his editorial in the professional journal Prosa 5-2003: ‘Putting in writing neo-Norwegian does not spread joy and enthusiasm over the Norwegian subject in general or in nine Norwegian in particular. The ability and joy of reading neuron can probably be most effectively destroyed by forcing young people to learn to write neuron. It is even possible that the nostrils will live longer and in any case under greater enthusiasm by removing the side-target style.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1221	It was the post for Arne Sortevik that actually made me get the call to say something, not the post for my party trap, Ine Marie Eriksen. Through the articles by Sortevik, it became clear that he says side measures, i.e. In fact, the proposal we are considering today is a proposal to introduce an optional neo-Norwegian approach. So Arne Sortevik and the Progress Party ask: can we afford to use resources for training in both forms? The progress party says no. Personally, I would say yes, but of course I am willing to discuss the methods, content and emphasis of the elements in the subject. We may be in a special position compared to having two writing languages, two Norwegian writing languages. To me, it becomes a little hopeless to present this as a problem. It's not a problem, it's a huge enrichment. It gives diversity, and it gives a wealth of literature and languages that it is important to take care of. This question does not have to be a question of money, and it does not have to be a question of resource use in the first place. It's a matter of taking care of our culture, taking care of our traditions, keeping track of our language history and taking care of something that's part of us. And it should really be possible to defend using money and spending time on it. The content and method of the Norwegian subject can and should, of course, be discussed. It would be natural and reasonable to come back to this in the context of the quality selection setting. To change the content of the Norwegian language by means of a Document No. Eight proposals can hardly be called sound. Nor can it be said that one is a long-term front when it is actually requested in the proposal, that the Government should come back with a message that should come close to the quality committee's setting and the message based on it. For my part, I look forward to the debate when the message based on the Quality Committee's settings is available. That is when this debate should come, and then it should be wide-ranging.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1234	Side targets are neural, they're said. That's right, of course. There was also a point in my post instead. Still fewer people speak and choose new Norwegian, or use new Norwegian as a language, not least as a font language. The problem is that there are poor learning outcomes in the important Norwegian subject. Over the course of more than 20 years, schoolchildren and teachers have shown that the learning outcomes in Norwegian are related to compulsory teaching in written language, not relative to the results. It's a matter of money. There is regular — this autumn is no exception — a problem related to the lack of resources to conduct sound education both in primary and secondary schools. And then, of course, we have to look at the content, and we have to look at what we spend on both dollars and time in school. It would have been great if we had been met with such openness from the other parties that they would be able to get their own message to discuss the many issues that this case is going to raise. It would have been brilliant if the Council of State had shown such an interest that, at least from the interlocutor, she had made a clarification as to whether or not it is possible to conduct experimental activities related to this or not, and in what form it is possible to conduct experimental activities. She was very concerned to signal openness to experimentation before she became the Council of State and immediately after she became the Council of State – later she has shut the door repressively. It may not be the case for students and parents that it should depend on which country you live in, and that you have a willing community if you are allowed to experiment with written side-by-side education or not. Otherwise, the debate is marked by ritual reactions, among other things. from SV. We can get that characteristic back. We have formulated ourselves so that we should not be met with the accusation that we want to change everything through a tough decision after a Document No. Eight proposals. On the contrary, we have formulated ourselves in such a way that we want a message that can provide a wide-ranging discussion of many issues related to what is included in the document, not least that it can provide a thorough explanation of what is possible to conduct experimental activities related to whether or not to have mandatory written page targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1245	Some comments on the posts of the representative, Ms Eriksen. She claims that we go to the trenches, and that these are the same arguments that go back all the time. There's no one here in this room who's been talking against you doing pedagogical development work, even within the side goal, or within the new nostrils, if we're going to talk about what it's really about. I think everyone interested, who wants to strengthen the side measure, wants a lot to be done in this subject. The attempt I made on Holmlia shows that there are educators who are thinking new about the side goal, and in fact, the students are using new Norwegian in the areas they had otherwise used their main goal. So the representative says Eriksen that one should not force students to learn one of the two equivalent languages! In fact, I think it is quite provocative that the representative, Eriksen, uses the word 'force' to refer to a language that is actually legislated in our country. It is no wonder that students get negative attitudes to the language when the country's leading politicians talk about the side goal and the new one in this way!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1254	When we read this Document No. The 8-proposal from the Progress Party, most of us see this as a disguised attack on Norwegian language policy. It is a disguised attack on Norwegian cultural policy. Therefore, it is not something we have entered very badly in relation to the argument that is contained in Document No itself. The 8th proposal. I think the debate has been exciting because the dividing lines don't go between the parties, they go far into the parties. I think that's very good and very exciting. Here the Christian People's Party Arne Lyngstad was quite clear that changing Norwegian language policy is completely out of the question. That means that we have two equal languages, and there should be training in both languages in Norwegian school. And we're talking about training in a written language – it's clear it's written training we're talking about. We're not talking about anything else when we're talking about a writing language! It should be clear to everyone. The same thing says left. It is quite clear that it is not relevant to change Norwegian language policy; it is not relevant to change the content of the Norwegian subject. There is therefore a broad agreement that Norwegian training should be as it is, subject to its content. We're going to do a lot in terms of method. We're going to do a lot in terms of time usage, etc. We're going to improve Norwegian training. But that there should be training in both writing languages is a broad political consensus. We have asked the State Council to come back to Stortinget in connection with the Quality Committee's setting. She has also said that she should come back to us when she submits the message in connection with the quality selection, i.e. the Scan selection, setting. Based on the strong and clear signals given here today that we are going to maintain Norwegian training in both writing languages, that it is part of general education in our society, does the Council of State think it is at all appropriate to make proposals in line with what is suggested by some of the representatives of the Right, which means that the secondary education is to leave the school? That's what they're talking about. They're talking about taking away the written stuff, but when you take away the cross-sectional education, it's like removing this part from the Norwegian language. My question to the Council of State is: does she see it at all as relevant to return to Stortinget with a change in the content of the Norwegian language? We are not just talking about method and pedagogics, but content, based on what has emerged in this debate. It would be an important signal to give to this assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1271	The majority have referred this matter to the message based on the Quality Committee settings, etc. I am pleased with that. I have listened with great interest to the debate and must admit, if it is allowed by this pulpit, that I am probably not as sure of everything as part of the speakers in this debate is. The Norwegian language has great challenges. Unfortunately, the reading and writing skills of Norwegian students are not as good as desired. Among 15-year-olds, they are averages in relation to countries we usually compare with. Ten-year-olds are averages, but the countries that are behind us are not the countries that we usually like to compare with. More seriously, there are very large differences between students in Norway. Almost 20 pst. goes to be functional illiterates. I have to add – I hope no one takes it up badly right here today – that the Centre for Reading Research has also revealed that the students who have a new sense of purpose read worse than the students who have a book target. But it has nothing to do with the question being discussed here. What is at the heart of the conflict, and which has been there for many years in Norway, is the mandatory written side objective. It's controversial political. It is also, in fact, controversial language policy. I refer you to the debate that is now initiated in Prosa magazine. And it's disputed professionally and academicly. Personally, I don't think it's possible to say that all the arguments that are put forward on one side or another are unimportant or uninteresting. I would like to now study the hearing opinions in the Quality Committee's settings. They include: called for the strengthening of the Norwegian profession. They have also addressed changes to the examination scheme. The hearing period expired a few days ago, on 15 October. We will also study the evaluation of reform 97 and national and international studies carried out, among others. in the case of mother tongue and literacy training and comparative studies with other countries. Then I will come back to Stortinget in connection with the message for spring. As for the experimental determination and the circular, the question that the representative Sortevik raised, I do not know what opinion he is aiming for, but in fact, at least we changed the circular that was there regarding the experimental provisions, immediately after we entered the government. Since then, we have not made any new changes. It also allows for attempts to do side-measures and to do so with new Norse, which the representative Sortevik was in. But that's not an exception. It's a experimental determination. So you can't just get exceptions from what you think is superfluous, but you can get to try something to see if you can get a better development in the subject. Then the decision-making authority has been delegated to the Education Director and the Learning Centre. This is due to the fact that hundreds of trials are conducted in Norwegian schools and that it is inappropriate for the Ministry to sit and decide on them. With regard to the experiment at Revetal, which has been mentioned here today, the Learning Centre has been commissioned to evaluate this and the trial has not been completed. So there is a development perspective on that experiment and not a mere exception, because it is not accessible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1293	I see that I have to take the word again to clear up a manifest misunderstanding. The representative of the Kijlaa said that I believe that the debate often ends up in the trenches. That's absolutely correct. I think the representative of the Schjälaa in many ways proves my claim when he obviously doesn't listen to what I'm saying. ‘The ability and joy of reading new Norwegian can probably be most effectively destroyed by forcing young people to learn to write new Norwegian’ is not my words. It's a quote from Halfor Fosli in Prosa No. 5 for 2003. The reason I quoted it was that I think it's interesting that the neo-Nurse people are now looking at changes in the forms of teaching, but not at changes in the way the side goal is to be removed, as a positive thing and a possible development of the neo-Nurse subject. I also see the representative Rolf Rikvam walking in the exact same trap. Not one place in my post I said that the side measure should be removed, rather on the contrary. I want both types of targets, and I think, as I said in my previous post, that it's brilliant that the experimentation at Revetal seems to be part of repatriation at Revetal Secondary School.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1304	It was really the post from the Council of State that made me ask for the word. The council says here that she is not as sloppy as part of the representatives in the hall, and I think that serves the matter. I think it's very good, if we can get back to the side goal, to have a very open and curious attitude -- as Ine Marie Eriksen says -- and maybe could go some new ways in terms of making the side goal a little bit more playful, and a little bit easier accessible, maybe, for the 80 pst. who think this is sad and boring. It's very important that we manage to raise the side measure so that it becomes interesting for children and young people. Then I have a question to the Council of State. It says in the setting – and we have had it several times in the debate – that it is important for children to be trained on their own goals. For me who comes from Finnmark, it's natural to think: what about the Sami population and the Sami children? Could strengthening that side of cross-cutting education also be used to strengthen the training of Sami children in their own language and the right to training in their own interests? And not least, can this help us get a boost in the resources to develop Sami textbooks for primary school?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1313	It's a little special to experience that when you're talking about side measures here, it's synonymous with neonomials. We who have a nine-norm background and have had a nine-norm as our main goal, had a book measure as a side measure, just so it's clarified and said. The council did not respond to what I was trying to challenge her. I understand that she would like to study the opinions received during the consultation phase. But my question was – based on what has emerged here in the Chamber and this debate, where the various parties have been so clear and strong that it is not relevant to change Norwegian language policy – if the Council of State sees any reason to propose changing and eliminating side objectives? That's really what we're talking about, and what I'm trying to say, that if one doesn't make training in side goals mandatory, that there's no written training in side goals, that means that one in the long run removes it, because that's the writing language we're talking about. When we talk about the language, we talk about different dialects, and that's really something else. I'm waiting for the council to comment on what was my input to her.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1322	After all, this debate got a little temperature, and that was something you should have expected. As I said in my first post, we will have a debate with a lot of emotions when we talk about Norwegian language policy and page goals. There's no doubt that these are two topics that get very integrated into each other, and that's just proven by the debate. I also think that the representatives should be aware that when someone is talking about that it's the new Norse you're going to live, and someone is talking about side goals, it's clear that this is a matter that's a little more complex than that. This is, as the Council of State says, which clearly needs to be seen in a larger context, regardless of the Norwegian or the language field in general. We should not forget that there are some students in Norway who have Sami as their main goal and book goals as side goals. The removal of compulsory training in cross-border cases will, of course, mean that no training is given in Norwegian. I don't think anyone here in this room wants that. I am surprised at the temperature of the debate based on what is really being said. I feel that the majority of people in this room agree on two things: one is that you want to support both of the goals, and then I am talking about the two Norwegian written goals, and that representatives who have been up on this platform are very searching for methods to strengthen both languages. I feel that this is a very good starting point for the work that the Council of State is going to do in terms of what comes in a big deal later on. That is why I believe that what the Progress Party really wants and requires, its own big message on this, is unnecessary, and especially in the context of the debate we have had today. It's been very rewarding. I believe that the will in this room to support both languages and find good methods within both languages of the training is present. And then I feel that the Council of State really has a job to do that has a fairly high legitimacy in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1332	I just want to comment again on some of what Ine Marie Eriksen said. When Ine Marie Eriksen uses quotes where she talks about coercion, as she did, we are left with the impression that one should not force students, and that there is something the representative actually means. Robertsen now said in his last post that everyone is kind of interested in strengthening both forms of goal. But I firmly believe that making a writing language verbal is weakening the subject. If a person is no longer to be trained in writing in both forms, there is a radical change in Norwegian language policy. That's this change that we've been calling for, and that people are actually behind in the setting. They say they don't want a change in Norwegian language policy. That's actually what we're saying here. So we don't want any change in Norwegian language policy, but some of us have been clearer and clearer that we want to strengthen both the equivalents of the writing languages, and look forward to the announcement of Norwegian school coming to spring, where the Norwegian subject will also be mentioned. So we want to strengthen both of our parallel languages, which have been sidetracked since 1885.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1339	The thing parents and students have to notice is that despite that under 15 pst. by the students, select new Norwegian and over 85 pst. by adult residents in the country chooses to speak book goals, while most parts of the Stortinget have doubts about gender equality, including resource efficiency. It's a cross of thought. What was said by the Council of State, and which is so clarifying in terms of trials, means that in all the counties – if you include side objectives in a regular Norwegian education, that is, you talk about both the side objectives and the main goal, but you calculate the written exercise in the side goal – to get the test approved. All school owners should be aware of this, and parents should also put pressure behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1346	100 years with side measures, what has this meant for Norway? Yes, briefly summarised statistics 2002: 10 pst. by the population of the country want new declarations of self-declaration. It should be a little wake-up alarm for more. We still have children and young people who have too poor language or poor language understanding. Is this an expression of high quality in training? Well, high quality is something that we all want. But it could be an advantage for children to know and use the words that are to be used. Then I want to go over to the representative Eriksen, who in his post claimed that it has never been right's intention to remove the side goal. No, the Progress Party does not ask for it either. It is difficult to understand that the representative Eriksen has read the proposals of the Progress Party, which can be divided into two points. First of all, we want a clear electoral profession. Secondly, we want to deepen the rules for deciding on the choice of primary objectives for each school. Is the decision to be taken by those who are school users, or is it for all kinds of others who might have to live in the area, who should be involved in it? That is what we are asking for answers to. It must not be a matter of time and money, it came from the Right. No, but training for children and young people in both public and private schools is paid out of public budgets. And when we know and get reports from every municipality that there's money disappearing from school, you might want to give priority to the resources you have at your disposal. And this field requires an unreasonable sum. So I want to finish with SV's Rolf Rekovam's words: we have to do something about Norwegian education at school. Everyone wants it, including the Council of State, said Reikvam. Then I thought of a word that said, "I will, I will, but I will not!"
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1359	Ine Marie Eriksen has had the word twice, and gets the word for a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1362	Some time ago I quoted Per Sandberg's statements on the labelling of asylum seekers. I can promise both the President and the representative of Rune Schjellaa that I am not in favour of his views. It must be possible to quote different sources without having to account for all aspects of the quotation. I repeat my point from earlier in the debate. It should be of interest to all in this Chamber and to all those who are genuinely concerned with the position of the secondary school in Norway that a prominent neural neuralist in a trade journal should be asked to consider the removal of the mandatory lateral dimension style. I repeat that it does not mean that those are my words, but I say that it should be of interest as an input into the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1369	I think the debate became quite interesting. What made me take the floor was first and foremost the attempt by the representative of Sortevik to sum up the debate, a summary that I think bears witness to some ambiguity. In fact, it was suggested that a resource equality between objectives and main objectives should also be pursued. There is no one who has raised the issue. In fact, there is a difference between the main objectives and the cross-measures in terms of resources. And at least it's the Christian People's Party's position that it should still be. We are also open in the Christian People's Party to discuss the content, methods and scope of lateral training, but we hold fast to the learning goal, namely that the students should learn to use the lateral goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1374	Some comments on the debate, although I had initially not intended to take the floor. It is obvious that within the government parties there are considerable differences in the perception of this matter. I noticed it on the posts from Lyngstad and Ine Marie Eriksen, and am a little surprised that they have managed to write together in common notes. Ine Marie Eriksen said that those who defend the written sidebar today are preconceived, while she herself stands for an open and searching line. Defending what the written side objective stands for is simply defending the equality of language policy and cultural policy. What I understand is that some of the political youth organisations – and I don't need to mention the name – are undermining, or minimizing, the grievances and a form of populism at least in the political debate in school everyday life by putting the students against the elections: Do you want to write side-by-side goals? Should one use this method in relation to other subjects, it is not certain that one was left with all that one wants, for other and important reasons. What also led me to take the floor was a little wretched and surprising and a little unclear response from the Council of State, where she referred primarily to the Quality Committee, but at the same time raised some doubts about the security of those who might defend the position of language politics today. I believe that the written sidebar is an important part of this equality and not part of a method. I'm not sure of the conclusion that the government reaches in the spring, but I hope that the two smaller parties in the government will get through on this, unlike many other issues in the school policy area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1381	I just want to confirm to the representative Nielsen that training in Sami is also important in connection with the follow-up to the quality committee. In fact, it is one of the most widely mentioned areas in the consultation process at the hearing conferences, some of which have missed this as a topic of the investigation itself. And I want to say that we've also put emphasis on it until now, for example. In the scholarship scheme for teachers that we launched last year, which is often said only for Norwegian and mathematics, but really it is Norwegian/Samian and math. In other words, we have also launched a scholarship programme for teachers who want to continue their training in Sami. And then I expect that it's respect that we can get back to what's the topic here now, in the context of the message we're promoting in the spring. Of course, there should be training in neuron, but I think there must be respect that we're not here and now concluding exactly what it's like, because it's obviously an improvement potential. I remind you that the Quality Committee has actually proposed changes, among other things. in the case of the examination scheme. I have not had the opportunity to study all the hearing opinions since 15 October. It may have been other people who have had the opportunity, but I haven't had a chance to do it yet. And then I will come back to it in connection with the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1388	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 237]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1408	There was a rather intense debate in the media about the Research Council's examination of applications for research funding, in particular the allocation of research funding to competing projects. The main questions have been how the Research Council ensures an unwarranted treatment and assessment in relation to the professional content and substance of the projects, but also how sustainability and integrity are maintained and practised through the allocation of limited resources. Headings and statements of the type ‘Those who have been in charge of the Programme Boards have always had much easier money to obtain’, ‘IT researchers close to the money bag get most millions’, ‘Scientists are naive in terms of capacity’, ‘Experts turn around after complaints’, ‘Scientists close to the money bag were ‘a very big problem’, ‘Heads can play a role in the Research Council’, are formulations that can make anyone wonder whether the Research Council’s management of billions of society’s resources is reassuring and in line with the rules and principles of the Administration Act on Good, Responsible and Unbounded Procedure in a Public Body, whether the provisions of the Public Prosecutor’s Act are followed to the extent that the rules and provisions of the Public Act apply to the Research Council, and not least whether ethical principles and attitudes in the Council’s proceedings and decision-making bodies hold such a standard that there is no basis for doubting the sustainability or distribution of applicants on grounds of incontrospect. This is some of the background for my interpellation with the Council of State. In addition, on a case-by-case basis, there will be allegations from various parties that incalculable considerations have been emphasised or that different persons involved in the decision-making process are inhabitable, in particular when it comes to allocating limited funds or goods to different applicants and applications that are often in competition with each other. Such claims do not need to have any real substance, but only the emergence of them may be sufficient grounds for periodic review and examination of the procedural and stability guidelines. The Norwegian Research Council manages large financial resources on behalf of society, financial resources that are expected to provide a significant degree of new knowledge, new insight and, in particular, new products. The allocation of funds is known both to our traditional knowledge institutions and to our other public activities, but also to a large extent to our all-round and competitive business. In such a situation, it is of paramount importance that the Research Council should appear with high integrity and high professional competence and insight, but also in a way where both users and awarding authorities have great confidence in the practice and follow-up of standards of sustainability and ethics at all levels of the organisation. The focus of spring from the media on the Research Council's proceedings and possibly somewhat dubious practice of the administrative law's rules of sustainability seems to have its origin in a concrete case. The applicant was first refused, but after having complained about the procedure with, among other things, noting that another applicant for a temporary competing project participated in the proceedings and the decisions of the Research Council, the complainant was informed that there had been procedural errors, and the Research Council re-examined the matter. But not enough of that, the extensive media coverage of this specific case also meant that the management of the Research Council had to admit that their practices and guidelines could be contrary to the rules on stability. The Governing Council therefore set up in May a high-speed sample to examine future guidelines for the application procedure. I am fully aware that we live in a small country, with both limited point competence and limited expertise on complex technical projects if you want support from the Research Council. It may therefore be difficult in many cases to find unresponsive professionals and independent experts with sufficient professional insight and competence to assess individual applications and to prioritise them. In addition, the same professionals are often applicants to the Research Council for the financing of their own projects, or are associated with research institutions or enterprises that are applicants, and can thus be said to be competitors and indirect parties to the case. However, even more important is the careful application of standards and standards of ethics. In other words, it is not sufficient for the research communities themselves, and not for the individual researcher or professional, to consider that the considerations of flexibility and impartiality are sufficiently taken into account. The system or organisation, in this case the Research Council, must, in addition to the established standards and standards, have a regulatory framework both for case handlers and trustees ensuring compliance with the rules of the Administration Act. Such a legislation must be verifiable and be able to be demonstrated to the person who may have to complain or feel that one has been treated in an unacceptable way. The general rules of the Administrative Act on incapacity when one is a party to the case, is closely related to a party or has participated in other parts of the proceedings, are reasonably unambiguous and comprehensible to most. Significantly worse are the interpretations of ‘other peculiarities’ which may lead to inconsistency, e.g.: that an applicant for research funds claims that one of the case handlers or decision-makers is incapacitated. In various contexts, claims are made that both proximity to decision-makers and acquaintances have an impact on the outcome of the application. In plain text, some strongly claim that it is much easier to reach if one is located near the Research Council, or is a fellow student, close to a friend or well-known by decision-makers. Here it is not certain that there are enough rules, but that the attitudes and actions developed and practiced over time are what should ensure and guarantee an unwarranted procedure, both to the granting authorities and to the applicants. In order to have a strong focus on sustainability and inadequacy, unrelenting treatment in the Research Council, it is hardly sufficient to be an excellent researcher or a professional, nor to have a background from the top position in business. Until then, there is too close ties and little focus on such issues both in educational and research contexts and in other parts of organisational life. There is little doubt that extensive legislation itself is not enough, but that it is ultimately about ethical standards and attitudes of all parties involved, including at personal level. Because of our limited professional environment and the weaknesses that may arise in terms of both professional insight and strong ties through acquaintances and common educational and experience backgrounds, it may, to some extent and possibly to a greater extent, be necessary for the Research Council to obtain the necessary procedural assistance and decision support from international environments. The evening post is written by a leader in the spring under the heading «Inhabilt blindspur i Forskningsrådet»: ‘It may seem that the general knowledge and awareness of the concept of capacity is frighteningly low. Inflation is not problematic in itself. It's only a matter of concern when we don't realize our own incapacity." I hope, on behalf of the Research Council, that the head of the evening post will be wrong, or at least that the Research Council has now been corrected for any weaknesses that might have occurred in the organisation regarding the handling of applications and stability issues. At a time when we are constantly being made aware of the lack of practicality of principles and ethical guidelines in international contexts, where personal relationships and developed unculture are being used to enrich themselves at the expense of the organisations and the community that you are assigned to serve, it is even more important that the Norwegian Research Council appears with high integrity and unforgivable procedural and decision-making processes. I meet the Council of State's assessments and hope that the problems mentioned in the Research Council are history.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1437	The representative Voie addresses a very important question in principle. First, a little about the specific case that led to more press releases on the stability of the Norwegian Research Council in the spring of 2003. It started with an article in the Evening Post concerning the examination of an application by the company SES Europe AS. This company is a development company with four employees who have focused on the further development of an air cushion-assisted quick boat concept. During the application round in the autumn of 2002, the Maritime Research Programme Board examined 20 applications, seven of which received support. Prior to the examination by the Programme Management Board, applications were evaluated by an ad hoc expert panel consisting of five persons. The application from SES Europe AS was rejected. This rejection was appealed to the Research Council's Committee on Stability and Complaints. The Committee on Stability and Complaints considered that one of the members of the panel of experts was associated with one of the applicants and was therefore incapacitated, not only in the examination of the application of the applicant to which he was linked, but also in the examination of the other applications. The same applies to several members of the Board of Programmes. They withdrew from the examination of the application of the activities to which they were linked, but not in the examination of applications from establishments which competed for the same funds. The result of the review procedure was that the case was sent back to re-examination. In this way, we can state that the appeal mechanism appears to be functioning as intended. As regards the re-examination of the case concerning SES Europe AS, a new panel of experts, consisting of a Swedish, a British and a Norwegian expert, was appointed. The complainant agreed to the composition of the panel. The decision whether or not support was taken by the Area Management Board, which is above the Programme Management Board. The application was also not met after the re-evaluation, which took place in June. The new rejection has also been charged by SES Europe AS, claiming that there are procedural errors and inadequacies in the distribution of funds. The case was brought to the attention of the Committee on Stability and Complaints on 29 October. The Research Council quickly addressed the matter and has taken the consequences of the first decision of the Committee on Stability. The Research Council Board discussed the matter in detail and has, among other things, set up a selection chaired by Professor Eivind Smith at the University of Oslo to review the procedure for the allocation of funds and to make proposals for future procedural procedures. I am so pleased with the rapid intervention and with the actions undertaken by the Research Council. As regards the principal aspects of the issues raised, it is to say that the Research Council is exempt from the rules of the Administrative Act on complaint, but not on the sustainability and procedure. The Research Council has thus itself set up the said Committee on Stability and Complaints. It was this body that dealt with the complaint in the specific case that caused the press releases. It is also the case that the Research Council has established its own rules of sustainability which go beyond the administrative rules in some respects. Applicants may not appeal against the judgement on which the award is based. In addition, it is important to have the highest level of competence in the application procedure in order to identify the best projects. For these reasons, it is particularly important to ensure that the necessary competences and quality are provided by the Programme Management Boards. The peoples of industry and the research community fear that the professionals and professionals will be thrown out of government, which they think would be unfortunate. This and the consideration of some effectiveness in the application procedure must be balanced against possible conflicts of viability. These are complex issues, but when said, the rules of the Administrative Act must, of course, be followed in terms of stability. I can assure you that I will follow up this matter further. After its first appearance, the Ministry has been in constant contact with the Research Council to discuss the measures that need to be taken in the short and long term to follow up the selection process. The Board of Governors of the Research Council has, as I mentioned, appointed a selection with Professor Eivind Smith as Chairman to examine key aspects of the Research Council's application procedure. The Smith Committee’s investigation shall not only be a feasibility study, but also an investigation into how to improve the application procedures while taking into account quality, stability and efficiency. The committee's recommendations shall be available by the end of the year. Thereafter, dialogue with the environment concerned shall take place before new guidelines are established. These shall be available in good time before the examination of applications for 2005. The results of the work of the sample can only be used as a basis for the examination in 2004 of aid applications in 2005. The Research Council has therefore made known to the Programme Management Board the decision of the Committee on Stability and Complaints and has instructed them that the rules, as they are now interpreted by the Committee on Stability and Complaints, must be taken into account in all the examination of applications for funding for 2004. This means that members of the panel of experts and the Programme Management Board may withdraw not only from the examination of the application of the applicant to which he or she relates, but also from the examination of competing applications. On this basis, temporary rules have been put in place, mainly concerning the following: If a Programme Board finds that it is not capable of decision-making, it may ask its Board of Directors to adjust the composition of the Programme Board. If this is not possible or desirable, the decision may be entrusted to the Board of Division. The Norwegian Research Council is a central body in the financing of Norwegian research. It is therefore important to clarify the questions raised by the representative Voie. At the same time, it is important that the Smith Committee devotes the necessary time to its investigation and is closely involved in the procedures for the application procedure. The results of the investigation will of course be followed up by the Research Council and the Department. In addition, I am satisfied with the temporary solutions adopted for the examination of applications for 2004 and believe that they will ensure the proper handling of applications. I guess I could even add that the preliminary report from the Smith Committee suggests that they're more than strict enough, to use such an expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1463	I thank the Council of State for the measures that have been taken, and the assurances that the Council of State also provides, that the Research Council has now changed its practice, so that it is in line with the rules that we have to deal with in public activities, and in particular in relation to stability and good practice, as I focused on in my contribution. The fact that action has been taken shows that there was a basis here for focusing on treatment practices and practices in the Research Council. I also think it is positive that a separate expert committee has been set up in this area to review the practices initiated in the new rounds and to create better culture, better attitudes and better guidelines for the future. It is a cross-thinking that such situations arise in an organ that is manned by one of the foremost expertise we have in our country, the foremost professional expert in its field of activity. However, when such things occur, there is also a confirmation that being a good professional or a good manager is not necessarily a sufficient quality to have a high ethical standard or to be a good practice in terms of public standards of good practice and good practice. I would like to encourage the Council of State to give the Storting feedback both on the conclusions of the Smith Committee and on how these are implemented and practised in the Research Council in the future. I am also so bold that I would encourage the Council of State to address the same issues in relation to our higher education environment. Some of our good doctoral students and professors may benefit from a basic course in the provisions of the Administrative Act on the sustainability and ineffectiveness of their daily activities outside the Norwegian Research Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1474	I can confirm once again that my impression is that the Research Council, both the administration and the still relatively new main board, have taken these issues very seriously and discussed them in depth. Provisional measures have been put in place, which, according to preliminary statements from the Smith Committee, are more than adequate. An assessment of what to do in the long term and how procedures should be on a more sustainable basis has been ordered. The representative Voie suggested that the way in which the Research Council had reacted, and the way in which it has followed this up, indicates that there was a basis for doing something. This is, of course, the way you can assess it, but I would like to say that it has largely worked well in the Research Council. It's important to get that side of it as well. Since 1999, when this Committee on Stability and Complaints was set up, the Research Council has been dealing with approx. 29 000 applications. During the same period, the Committee on Stability and Complaints dealt with 32 complaints. Four of these were related to stability issues. In five of the 32 cases, the complainant was supported, three of which were related to the question of viability. I think it suggests that there have been no very serious problems related to the handling and the instability. Rather, there are very many — even in a small country — applications that can be processed without causing complaints and/or appeals. We should probably be able to find an appropriate way for us to get the Stortinget to know what the Research Council finally decides for, after the Smith Committee has given its opinion on future procedures and legislation that the Research Council should follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1483	Without taking my mouth to the full, I can say that I essentially share the views of both the representative Voie and the Council of State on the essence of the interpellation, on ensuring the stability of the research apparatus. However, I only have some main points from the Workers' Party's side. Research efforts are essential for the future development of society, and large amounts are allocated annually for different projects and different purposes. It is the research apparatus that is largely responsible for managing and allocating funds on behalf of society. It is important that we simply have a system and driving rules that ensure that the appropriations of public funds are used properly and that there is no pre-allocation in the system. Criticism has been raised as to the question of stability. I think that criticism has been raised on such a large scale, even though it is linked to a single matter, in itself is an opportunity to have a review, without me saying anything in relation to individual projects or that at all events I believe that this is a major problem in our research apparatus. I believe that the necessary measures are in place, both in the form of these stricter temporary provisions, and that the selection to clarify the driving rules in the future has been reduced, both in order to ensure stability and to avoid doubt and criticism. The Research Council has taken this seriously. I am pleased with the review that the Council of State has given here today. The government itself has said that she will follow it up. We look forward to providing information to the Stortinget on an appropriate occasion or in an appropriate document on the conclusions of the sample and, where appropriate, the changes that will then be made to the existing driving rules for the apparatus they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1492	It is an important question that is addressed in the interview of the representative Voie. In the light of the news articles that have come, not only last spring, but in fact also recently, a debate on the subject is necessary. Research must be independent and professional content and substance must be indisputable. Should that be possible, there must be no doubt as to whether or not it is viable and integrity. Although research funds have shown a very small increase in the budgets of the last few years, including in the 2004 draft budget, the funds will always be limited in relation to the applications in place. There should therefore be no doubt that the distribution of funds takes place unwarrantedly and for business reasons. Now you don't have to believe everything you can read in newspapers because you can read so much. But just the fact that the theme is addressed to discussion gives cause for concern. I agree with the representative Vidar Bjørnstad that there is a reason to go through the whole matter. Where, in addition to newspaper articles, reference can then also be made to specific cases where it is claimed that considerations other than those of substance have been taken into account, it is necessary to review the procedures and procedures. Without considering whether the allegations of harmlessness are correct, it must be said that the claim itself is sufficient to review the guidelines and the rules of viability and that the necessary safety networks are in place to ensure that only substantive considerations are taken into account. Of course, it is correct, as the representative Voie said in his statement, that the written rules and regulations are possible and relatively easy to verify. It is the unwritten rules – those on standards and standards – that are difficult to verify. With a small environment and a relatively limited range of professionals, procedures must be established to demonstrate that decisions are based on factual considerations. Nothing is more harmful than rumors that the good standards have not been met. Not all standards and standards can be made verifiable, and it is important that attitudes are practised in such a way that, not least, applicants for funds for which their applications are rejected can be sure that the decision is due to factuality and not alleged camaraderie. The interpellant is right when he claims that in the last instance there is talk of attitudes at the personal level. At personal level, ethical attitudes and standards are being developed and grounded. So this is two-sided. There is a need for legislation and that legislation must be followed. At the same time, one must be aware of all aspects of stability and integrity. It's not enough to be able to defend the hydrogen to itself. It must also be able to be defended and asserted on the outside. However, claims are not facts, but are unlucky and harmful in themselves. I am pleased that this is taken seriously, as stated in the articles of the Council of State, and that the necessary measures will be taken, and even some of them have already been implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1507	When the number of complaints is so low in relation to the number of applications that the Council of State tells us, it does not have to mean that everything works well. It might as well mean that you don't think it's useful. The Norwegian scientific community in research is small. It means difficult boundaries between professionalism and flexibility. It seems, however, that a small cluster of researchers goes back like Tordenskjold's soldiers on both sides of the tables where applications are promoted and decisions are made. An example of unfortunate coupling can be Professor Peder Haug, who at his doctoral thesis was the ideological father of the six-year reform or reform 97. At the same time, the Progress Party – and probably many others as well – has noted that the same Professor Haug has been a leading researcher in the evaluation of Reform 97. If we follow this angle further, it's just to compare who's at the core of the Norwegian Research Council, and where they're located in universities and institutions that do research. Examples include NOVA, NIBR, NUFO and Fafo, to name a few. If this reasoning is used, it is understandable to see the way in which the funds allocated for research in all material flows. Whether this is professionally sound, I will not comment on it. But it's justified to look at the question of viability in such a scenario. The evaluation of the Research Council should be the subject of a broader policy approach in the Stortinget than has been the case. In a wide-ranging treatment of the evaluation, it would be natural to assess the problem of stability at the same time as other problem areas. Norwegian research depends on credibility. Stability and credibility are linked to the expression of high international quality and high international standards. What will the State Council do when the Smith Committee's configuration is available? Will she take it to the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1524	After the last article, this debate takes a completely different direction from what it should really take. Sometimes it becomes a violent mix of cards. Let me stress that I have full confidence in the Council of State and in the Board of Research. They have addressed the problems that have been revealed, they have entered them, and they are clearing up. I think this is being treated in a good and proper way. I'm a little surprised by Søren Fredrik Voie's last post, where he tried to present it as if there were a lack of culture and major problems about the Research Council's proceedings and the rules of sustainability. As the Council of State said, such a situation has not been revealed. It is important to remind each other that we are a small country without such a very heavy and large research environment, so it is almost natural that people meet in a slightly different context. There will then be an assessment of the amount of resources to be allocated to the different application procedures. How much resources are we going to use by involving foreign expertise measured against the extent of these issues and the danger that someone might be incapacitated? I would warn the Council of State not to go very far in using a lot of resources to involve foreign expertise where there might be doubt about people coming into conflict with themselves, because it could mean a heavy bureaucracy that is not proportionate to the extent of the issues to be dealt with. Here, a balance needs to be balanced in a reasonable way, with reasonable balances. It is obvious that the rules of administrative procedure should apply. That's not what this is about. It is simply a matter of figuring out the rational use of Community resources. So a couple of comments at the end. We had the opportunity for a good debate on the evaluation of the Research Council. We got a case from the Council of State in connection with the budget. We had the opportunity to get into this properly. The evaluation was presented to Stortinget in a straightforward and proper way. It is a little strange that it is the position that asks the Council of State to come to Stortinget with a matter of rules. I'm not sure that the Smith Committee's setting is a matter that should be presented to the Stortinget. I believe that this is primarily a matter for the Council of State. I feel reasonably secure – even if I belong to the opposition – that she will be able to deal with this in a good way, and that this will not be a matter for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1537	Also in the Christian People's Party we can agree with the representative Voie's concerns and views in his main post. I have to say that I am generally pleased that we have an open and critical press in our country. It is clear that the media's focus on the challenges in the Research Council has been decisive because the Research Council has initiated the process of these matters. We have been given a new focus on the sustainability and procedural requirements of the Administrative Act. The fact that the Board of Research has taken these statements and this question seriously shows that they take responsibility and see that they have a challenge here. Clearly, problems need to be solved simply because it is about maintaining confidence in the work of the Research Council and the use of state resources. Here I am satisfied with the Council's response to the interpellation, and I also fully agree with the representative of Reikvam. I trust that both the Research Council and the Council of State will be able to deal with these problems. But I think we also have a special challenge in Norway. We know that the research environments are relatively small. So we know that there can be close links and some competitors in the research environments around the resources. This is why clear legislation is necessary. I believe that a long way to go can solve this by using international participants. Although the representative Rikham was concerned that one should not exaggerate the problem – I agree that we should not – I still believe that the use of international participants in the board of directors can be both quality assurance and a contribution to solving some of the sustainability issues. What this case reveals, and as I think we may have to pay more attention in the years to come, is that the researchers are very dependent on the Norwegian Research Council because it is the only source of funding. I think it would have been an advantage if we had had more sources of funding, because so researchers could have gone there to get their projects evaluated when they don't get into one system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1551	Søren Fredrik Voie travels the interpellation after one special case has emerged in the media, in the newspapers, and in a way brings the very problem of instability to the Research Council here into the Stortinget. I think that's good. But I have to say that I was very reassured when the Council of State said a little about the scope, i.e. how many complaints there have been related to this with instability. There have been four–five complaints about an enormous number of thousands of applications. It shows that the Research Council actually manages the funds very well. I think it's sad if you're going to get an idea that that doesn't happen. But it's always important to ensure procedures. Therefore, it is positive that the Council of State has set up a sample to go through the procedures, so that one ensures it and makes sure that everything goes right. So there has been a complaint committee from 1999 that shows that most allocations are made without any grounds for complaint. It's, as I said, very reassuring. I share the view of the representative, Mr Rikham, that when the Smith Committee is done with its work, there is a matter between the Department and the Research Council and not a matter for the Stortinget here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1558	I believe that this debate has given a great deal to a common understanding of the importance of the fact that we have systems that are good and proper in the practice of capacity and procedure, as it should be and should be in all public activities. Map to the representative Rikvam. I do not remember using either the terms ‘unculture’ or ‘great problems’ when I had my post instead. I also think that I made the same evaluations and analyses that the representative Rikvam had in mind, so I am not doing anything in relation to seeing the large differences in vision. Rather, there must be shades of emphasis on words and language. I don’t think I said that I asked the Council of State to raise a case for the Stortinget. But I asked the State Council to give feedback to the Stortinget on how the Smith Committee concludes, and how their proposal might be implemented. That is what I think we have a right to get in many contexts on matters that have been discussed in this forum. Otherwise, I think it is nice to record that the opposition at Stortinget is reassured by the fact that the Council of State provides an explanation and an explanation of the measures taken. This is, of course, another confirmation that we have a Council of State that addresses the issues that arise and takes the necessary action. In conclusion, I just want to say that even if the Research Council gets a few complaints and gets involved in the complaints that are, and now also sets down a separate selection to go through its practice and legislation, I think it is important in all proper and good practice and in all public activities that we focus on these issues, that we take them up for debate at regular intervals, and that someone from outside looks us in the cards, no matter what body it may be, and no matter what level we have to operate on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1569	I would like to thank the participants in the debate for the trust shown by the Norwegian Research Council and its ability to address the issues addressed here today. I also notice that a large majority believe that these provisions are not a matter for the Storting. It is such that the Government adopts the statutes of the Norwegian Research Council as a royal resolution, and then it has been up to the Research Council to lay down its provisions on stability and trust, which are now subject to revision, with the external help of a sample led by Professor Eivind Smith. And then we'll see if the Storting can be made adequately familiar with the processes that have taken place, and that it has been concluded. I guess so. We have annual government budgets, but I also remember that we have decided to submit a new research report in the spring of 2005. In principle, it is intended to be quite successful in the sense that such issues can also be addressed and discussed, without being subject to the treatment of the Stortinget, as it is attached to the Research Council and the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1576	Then there's case no. 4 ready-to-debate debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1582	Then Stortinget will vote in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1589	During the debate, Mr Bjørklund put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: «Treatment of St.prp. No 82 are deferred and dealt with in the context of a new long-term document in the spring of 2004.» [[2002-2003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1625	During the debate Kjetil Bjørklund put forward the following proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party: ‘1. The Storting asks the Government to prohibit the use of white phosphorus grenades on shooting grounds in Norway.2. The majority asks the Government to carry out a White Phosphorus Pollution Survey in Norwegian shooting areas.’» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1655	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In spring 2004, the Government asks the Government to present its own notification on the status of the Norwegian subject in primary and secondary schools related to the use of primary and secondary objectives. Furthermore, the size requires that the provisions of the Training Act on the choice of target form in each school and the change of target form in each school be further assessed.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-21.ana.ud1770e1679	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
